TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Balance from month's prior to this one. 
CLIENT: Okay, okay. (pause) How's it going? 
THERAPIST: Good. 
CLIENT: Nice. I had a pretty shitty, not a shitty day yesterday, But I had one of those like, I was just like stressed and restless. And, it sucks, I had to get my car inspected, my car's kind of weird, like it's, if I just get it regularly inspected, it, this one little thing, something electrical, I don't know what the fuck it is, but if I get it won't pass. So I have to, the last two years, I have to go somewhere, have them turn off the check engine light, then I have to drive it for 30 miles on the highway, and then somehow it passes. So, so it's kind of annoying I don't know, to have to do that. (pause) [00:00:56]
CLIENT: But, I don't know, I think it was just that I've been kind of out of it, I've been tired, just kind of, stressed. Blah, kind of. (pause) Um, (pause) When I was thinking about it, it's like, I think it's just (pause) like, maybe I just feel like, I think, I feel like (pause) a little bit adrift a little bit. Like, The music stuff's happening, things are happening, but I still feel a little bit, maybe because I'm not used to, things being mostly good. So I feel a little bit off kilter, or something. I don't know, I can't really articulate it. [background noise] But part of it could be, I know a lot of people I think were stressed with the storm. We had my mom's second floor in the dining room has just been leaking like there's no tomorrow so (pause) [00:02:03] The upside is I took care of it, you know, like I called insurance, and we're going to have a guy inspect it, my car's all set, but somehow, I don't know, it's just. (pause) So, I don't know. I've been having trouble sleeping a little bit the last two or three nights. (pause) So, so I really, I don't know, I just think that maybe it is that I feel just weird that things are mostly good or something? I feel antsy or something I, I don't know, I don't know what it is. Or I feel now this general I feel more existential like just blah, like "so what" kind of, or something. I, I, I don't know, I can't explain it. (pause) [00:02:59]
CLIENT: It's weird, because like I feel good, you know what I mean, like I'm not, even yesterday it wasn't that I felt depressed, I just mostly that I felt stressed. You know, that, that kind of stuff makes me think about money, you know it's just, it, these things, make you think about things, you know what I mean, about money, then I thought about like, I'm frustrated, and. (pause) I don't know. No idea. (pause)
THERAPIST: I wonder that if, somehow the leak or having to do that with your car, and getting, getting the light turned off feels like it, these kind of put you a little bit of that space where it feels like "why me?" or 
CLIENT: Yeah I guess. 
THERAPIST: If things were different I wouldn't have to be dealing with this?
CLIENT: I guess, but I didn't really think that, but I didn't really think that, because, it's a, I mean we were [00:04:01] lucky actually with the storm. It was fine, okay a leak, we had power, no trees fell, no flooding, and even the car I was like, I mean it's a 2000 Volkswagen. [chuckles] Alright so I gotta take a road trip for 30, I don't really fuckin care. It wasn't, I think it was just, that's what I'm saying, I don't think it was those things you know, maybe it was just a more general, I don't know, I don't know what it is. Like even, like, I got an e-mail from work the other day, you know, there's some things I want to finish up, whatever. And even that made me feel just like, annoyed for some reason. (pause) It's like so not a big deal but I just felt kind of just like, argh, [chuckles]
THERAPIST: Was it, what did the e-mail say? Was it bad? 
CLIENT: Nothing it was like, there was just, it was like a few bullet points of like, "do you think we can get, like you know, do you think you can send these things along, this week or next or whatever and, [00:05:05] then we'll talk about the template for the actual book, or whatever", I don't know. Nothing really. You know. But, it's, I don't know why, you know, I was just, ugh, [chuckles] you know. I don't know man. 
THERAPIST: So I wonder what it was about it? 
CLIENT: I don't know. Even with practice, like I'm kind of glad practice was cancelled today, because one of the guys is really sick. Why? Like we have show next, next weekend, and I'm already kind of like, ugh, [chuckles]. I don't know dude, I don't know what it is. [chuckles] I just go through these, I think it's a little bit of an existential thing. It's like 'why, why is any of this?'. Like I guess, I don't know, I don't know if that's totally true or not, I think I just have these moments where I'm like, (pause) I, I don't know. (pause) [00:06:01]
CLIENT: Like with the band, I don't know if it's that I feel like, because it's going well, so these kinds of things, so then I feel like, 'well see, it's not going to go so well'. Like, ex- I can't handle, I don't' know what to do with it going well, so I think about things like well maybe, maybe these guys are going to quit, or they're not going to want to be in the band any more, or, and then what am I going to do. You know like, just, you know what I mean. So it's as if my mind wants to go back to this place of like freaking out about everything and castasro-, I mean I don't know if that's true or not but, (pause) Or it's just you know, it's nothing other than people sometimes get a little bit moody and grumpy. You know it could be a little bit of that. You know weather change and storm and fuck em. [00:07:00] I don't know. A combination of all those things. (pause) 
CLIENT: I've been a little bit annoyed with some of the girl situation. Like with that girl I really like, the Lucy girl. I'm kind of tired now of her, like, cryptic text messages. Like feel like I need something more, you got to let me, you know she basically only has Monday's where we can hang out. And it's like, you got to at least tell me you're thinking of me, or you, I need something, I can't just, I don't know, it's like these cryptic, dry humor kinds of messages. And it's getting like, old. You know. I don't know. So maybe that makes me think, I don't know. I don't know what it is. Maybe (pause) that stuff's affecting the other stuff. You know, I don't know. I ran into Lily (pause) and she like, wants to hang out. (pause) [00:08:01] And then this girl from a few years ago, who I have an awesome date with, and then she disappeared. She suddenly friended me on Facebook, and she wants to go out Saturday, and she's like, 'I'm really sorry, back then, it's like I really, there was some stuff I was trying to sort out and it's like I feel, I'm sorry and all that blah, blah, blah' . (pause) So, but see again, a lot of this stuff is good, do you know what I mean? Today I asked out the fuckin mail girl.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) 
CLIENT: When would I do something like that? She's just really hot. So, I said ' fuck it', I saw her, and I just pulled over, and asked her out. [chuckle] Like that's, these things are like good things, you know what I mean, like I don't know what the, and yet I just feel like blah, you know. (pause) I went out like, with my friend, we had like two, after like two beers. I just felt [00:09:00] tapped. You know what I mean, I don't, I mean luckily he felt that way too. So we were just kind of, I guess, being together drinking, and it was fine. But, two beers and I was just like, 'Eh, I'm just going to go home, and. That, do you know what I mean? I don't know what that is. Like I just had trouble mustering a lot of small talk and, or even serious talk, I was just like, 'eh, I don't know'. (pause) Wha, what do you think? 
THERAPIST: You sound a little, down and sad, sort of, in spite of things on the surface going well, you are certainly aware that things are fine, things are happening-
CLIENT: That's the other thing I was thinking, I was thinking, is it because we're doing stuff here, and like in general I'm just sad because I've been talking about older stuff and I'm just coming to grips with the reality of things and maybe that's what it is? [00:10:01] I don't know? 
THERAPIST: And that's very possible. 
CLIENT: Yeah, because I kind of can't think of what else, you know what I mean, I can't be, in terms of the present, I can't beat this shit, I work at home, I log in, you know, I'm pretty-, the only thing left now is my student loans, I'm kind of on top of things, you know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: And you're thinking the leak in the ceiling is,' wow it could have been so much worse'. 
CLIENT: Yeah. yeah. 
THERAPIST: Which is so different? 
CLIENT: Right, right, and even that, I've been on top of it. I called all the places, I've blah, blah, blah, adjusters, whatever the fuck. (pause) Yeah, so maybe it's just, yeah, I'm just processing older stuff, the stuff we're doing here, and that's making me feel, with potential future things, it's going to make me feel like I'm tired or something, you know what I mean? But, what, you know, the problem is, I mean that's kind of, not that it's not good, but, like, how do you, I mean, cause this is not going to get better like tomorrow. [00:11:03]
THERAPIST: It might get worse. 
CLIENT: So that, that bums me out a little bit. (pause) That's
THERAPIST: I, (inaudible) The only thing that can help, you know, as it gets more intense potentially, is knowing, sometimes knowing that this is what it's about
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: And that it's actually not about getting that e-mail 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah
THERAPIST: When it gets, to start, just being in the practice of just of being in the practice of 'oh, I wonder what this is really about that I'm having this reaction' to this e-mail. 
CLIENT: And I think that's what I've been doing, I've been like, this is clearly not, any of these other things. It's just that (pause) I'm really working hard at this thing, you know. So, I'm constantly aware now, that, it's not the ceiling, it's not, no one's out to get me or, it's not me against, I mean I get all that now, and when you get all that, you realize that I'm just fucked up from the past. [00:11:58] And it's like, so what are- you know, it's a hard thing to- On the one hand its good, cause like you said, I'm here, I don't really feel depressed per se. Yeah, maybe I just feel kind of tired and bummed. You know what I mean? (pause) You know what I'm saying, it's like, it's not (pause) You know I was at the gas station, and I was joking around with the guy doing the inspection, like I'm not, it's all good, it's just, yeah, I think I feel maybe a little drained, or something. (pause) I, I think, honestly, cause I was thinking about, I thought, I was like, I thought that's what you were going to say, and honestly, like what, cause there's no answer to that. You know, so I think really its exercise. Like, I know, because it's like a practical thing. You know what I mean, obviously, this is this but, there's got to be something practical to give me a little more energy, you know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: Uh huh, uh huh. 
CLIENT: Because yeah, I just feel kind of, (pause) [00:12:58] I don't know what the word is here. (pause) But, 
THERAPIST: It's a practical self-care thing 
CLIENT: Yeah, 
THERAPIST: As is also 
CLIENT: Just to vent, the energy, and to, you know when you exercise you're not thinking. You know, often times you're not thinking, because you are just focused on your body and whatever the hell you're doing and just sweating it out. I think that would be really good. (pause) Because otherwise I think, you know, I work from home, I'm not in an office environment, and that's all good, but it also means (pause) I can basically think about this, off and on all day. Kind of. Or think about things all day. I mean, I know that people do that in offices too, but 
THERAPIST: But you even more so
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: Of course
CLIENT: Yeah, I just think I need, yeah. (pause) Maybe the mustache will help. What do you think? It's kind of weird but 
THERAPIST: (chuckle) 
CLIENT: Fuck it. 
THERAPIST: (chuckle) So you're growing a mustache? [00:14:00]
CLIENT: Eh fuck it, something different. I was getting restless and I don't have any money to mess around with my clothes, so I was like, Fuck it. (pause) I opened a savings account (pause) That was good. (pause) I talked to my uncle about the mortgage. He actually had a great idea, he's so good at these things. I didn't ask him to co-sign anything, I just threw it out there. He's like, well, he's like, one thing, the girl that we knew who was the vice president of the Savings bank, went next door to the credit union. So of course, she wants all his business right, so my uncle's like,' you know, I could just say, I'd give you all my business, but you got to do this mortgage for my sister. (pause) You know, that would be really cool, you know (pause)
THERAPIST: There's always a way 
CLIENT: Yeah, and he said, you know, there's always a way. You may have to go through one of those brokerages that deal with bad credit, whatever. He's like, probably the interest rate, might, instead of being 3.2 it might be 3.7, or he said it will probably still be less than what you are paying, But it would be just the upfront cost that would be more . But he's like that's just a onetime thing, but you'll make that back anyway because you're saving money. You know. (pause) 
CLIENT: You know the other thing, might be too, I was thinking about this as well. Like, remember when I told you that high school chick, she kind of blew me away with what she said about age, and all that stuff? I think it's also that, I'm like, it's like with my cat, I think, I don't know what to do, with, like, (pause) [00:15:57] warmth that I'm feeling or love, or openness, or whatever is going on. You know what I mean? Like I don't, I don't know what to do with that. I think it makes me all emotional or it could make me emotional. You know what I'm saying? 
THERAPIST: A little bit. 
CLIENT: Well you were talking to my uncle, it just felt really nice, it felt, (pause) Maybe it just reminds me of all the years, between my shyness kind of closing me off and feeling kind of you know, neglected or whatever. Whatever that combination was. But now it just feels like all this, it's like this flood, like I'm really connecting to people and on this more genuine level. And so I think that's you know, it's a big deal. You know, like when I'm with my- I literally, it sounds fucking retarded. [00:17:00] But, with Cecelia, I literally spend time, like when she's on top of me, whatever, I literally just bust out laughing. I'm so, I can't understand what's happening. (chuckle) It's so cute and so ridiculous how much I love this critter, and how much she loves me. I don't know what to do with that, and I can't get over it. Like I cannot get used to what's happening. You know what I'm saying? 
THERAPIST: It's so different
CLIENT: Yeah, like last night she climbed up, she fucking nuzzled in between here, she looked at me, and put, and stretched out, and just like put two of her paws here, and I was mesmerized,
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
CLIENT: Like I couldn't, and every time I would move a little bit, and she would just reach out, and pull, but she was so amazing she was not scratching. She knows, you know, it was just her paws. You know. Like that is just the most beautiful fucking thing I've ever seen you know. (pause)[00:17:58]
CLIENT: So I think maybe that's part of it too. You know what I mean, like today when I was driving 30 miles or whatever I was doing, beautiful weather, I had my coffee, I listened to sports, it's all good, but it's like I don't know what to do with that kind of thing . You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: I do
CLIENT: So I kind of still felt kind of tense and anxious, but there's nothing to be tense and anxious about, you know
THERAPIST: Or you could be tense and anxious about the fact you are feeling things that you've not felt before.
CLIENT: Well yeah, that's what I mean, yeah, yeah, I mean. 
THERAPIST: So it's not that there's nothing there,
CLIENT: Right, yeah. 
THERAPIST: There actually big changes happening. 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just not the stuff that it was before
THERAPIST: Yeah, it used to think the form of a kind of paranoia, as a kind of extreme way of putting it, but the fears only about the future or about getting sick or about hair, or about something bad happening. 
CLIENT: Yeah right.
THERAPIST: The world being against you is kind of paranoia, fears about the world. It's just not that anymore, [00:19:00] and I think that in terms of like, so much feeling for you and it has for your family. But now it starts to have settling, but other strong feelings growing, they're not paranoia, but even love. To have like an outpouring of positive attachment, loving feelings for someone or something. Or sadness even, even just feel grief, is actually quite different than feeling, anxious, and paranoid and stressed out you know. 
CLIENT: Right, right, right. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: That's just how I was just saying, that in addition to the practicality exercise, that, to get, to have some compassion for how hard this work is until you've begun. It's a lot of work, it's really hard emotional work. And it's only just beginning. As long a run ahead of you (pause) and it's going to pull you to different places there where you might have a week where you feel really low. [00:20:01] And they'll be some reasons why in here, in things you are starting to dig up and talk about 
CLIENT: Yeah, the important thing is to know that that's why that's happening, and 
THERAPIST: Yeah, Yeah, and you lose sight of that sometimes, 
CLIENT: Which I guess that's intuitively what I got today I was like, 
THERAPIST: It sounds like it 
CLIENT: And even yesterday, even yesterday, I was going to go to my friend Donnie's, but I wasn't going to go. I was like, argh, then I was like you know what, why would I not go to have a beer with my friends at their house. I, it doesn't, I popped an Ativan, and I never do, I was like 'Fuck it, that's how I feel today I'm popping an Ativan, grabbed a cold six-pack, went to their house, had a puff of some weed, we laughed our asses off, talked. That was it, I was home at eight. I made a sandwich, like, you know what I mean, so you know even I'm also kind of proud of how I'm handling things you know. 
THERAPIST: Yeah you are able to feel some things and not always act on them. You know to be able to feel sad and kind of down but still go out. You know [00:21:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah 
(crosstalking) 
CLIENT: These things aren't one or the other. (pause) Yep. (pause) And even, I can't, I can't believe I asked that mail girl out. I can't believe I did that. 
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
CLIENT: For me that's a really big deal. You know. 
THERAPIST: You pulled over in your car you said? 
CLIENT: Well first I drove by her, and so, did I tell you like I ran in to her. This chick used to be our mail girl. 
THERAPIST: Okay
CLIENT: Okay, she's just assumed
THERAPIST: What does that mean a 'mail girl'? You mean like a 
CLIENT: no, I'm just calling her a girl because she's a girl so 
THERAPIST: Okay. Not like an internally hind (ph) person, 
CLIENT: No, no, no 
THERAPIST: Someone who works for USPS
CLIENT: The mail person 
THERAPIST: Yeah
CLIENT: I was like there is just something about her, She's kind of a little bit like a townie, but like, really nice and like really just hot, there's just something about her you know. SO we used to always say hi, you know whatever and I would just see her, walking around our house or whatever and then I went away, whatever, whatever. Then I ran into her at CVS in the Center. [00:22:01] So there I you know, indirectly, I flirted with her a little bit cause I was like you know, should I go, Where you been? She was like 'I'm not doing that route anymore I'm on the other side of town', or whatever she said ; and she said what do you, and I was like, I work from home now so I hang out at this Starbuck's basically all day. It's my office network. And she was like I go to the other one in the Square whatever, I was like oh, well now you should go to this one. So I kind of flirted with her, and kind of left it at that
CLIENT: So today, I don't know, something in me was like 'you know what man' this, this is one of those times where all this work you've done, like it's not a big to just say hi to somebody and whatever, you know. So first I drove by, and I thought it through, and I was like 'fuck it' and I drove back around (laf) and she was just walking with her mail or whatever, I just pulled over and I was like, 'Hey, what's going on?' She's like, hey! What's going on blah, blah, blah. And I said, that was it, I was like you want to grab a drink this weekend or something.[00:23:00] She's like, Oh yeah, she's like yeah, she's like I don't know, I kind of told myself I would stay in this weekend and just not do anything . But She's like you know give me your number, I gave her my number and (pause) you know. It was pretty cool. 
CLIENT: Whether anything happens, I kind of don't even care now whether if she calls me or not. It's just that's so, it feels good to be like, I wanted to ask this girl out and I did. It's really not a big deal. Instead of not asking her out and feeling you know, why aren't I the kind of person that would ask, you know like, (pause) So. And I've noticed more of that. I've been much more, like at Starbuck's, I know, it's little stuff, but it's, it's a big deal to me. Very direct with the workers, I'm, I'm talkative with them more. But in, before, I mean, I was always that way. I would always turn on the charm. But now it's just a very genuine, I feel very comfortable. Do you know what I mean? 
CLIENT: At that party at Penny's, I just felt very comfortable. I introduced myself to people, I talked with them, I fuckin, it was still, the charm as there, but now it's just very genuine and very even keel and you know. (pause) I mean the one off night was at the bar, with that girl you know. (pause) So, I— (pause) 
THERAPIST: Any end to all the feelings, all the memories all the experiences, absolutely can free up, internal obstacles to be who you are everywhere you go. [00:25:01] It sounds like just on the one hand, just you are experiencing that. Ways of you are feeling more and more comfortable with yourself. Just each week, each day, there are new ways that you are understand 
CLIENT: And maybe that night at the bar, I've noticed that about myself that when I kind of hit that kind of a bump, usually I rally. You know, I'm like the Pat's, well, the way they used to be. Like, you know, you get one loss, and then you fuckin trample the next team that you play (laf) You know what I mean? So I've kind of noticed that about my— You know that was few and far— It hadn't happened in a long time. And I've noticed since then I've recovered super fast the next morning, or even later that night I guess. And since then, I've been even more, kind of just, (pause) I don't know what that means, I don't know if maybe that had to happen to just kind of (pause) [00:26:03] trigger all the newer stuff. Or that's just shit like that happens, to everybody sometimes. You know is you are a sensitive person you know. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Well there maybe also be, I was going to say, not on a level to this, in addition to that literally things are starting to free up. Another level is that it may in here be easier to talk about the times when you've been really courageous and things have felt really positive, than the times like that night which it seems like you've come in and it sort of feels more like a confessional. Like you say that this happened and then quickly on to how much better it's been since, and that hasn't happened. And that sort of stops us from being able to really think and know about where the pain is too. You know. [00:27:00] (pause) 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think at the end, I don't know what, it was the thumbkin (ph). Today or yesterday (laf) I don't know, but, I just had this moment where I was like, this is all so simple in some ways. Not fixing it, but the— you know I'm just sad you know what I mean. I'm just sad, that's all this is. I'm sad, I feel lonely, I feel, it bothers me that I don't have someone in my life. I don't, I just don't understand that, like I don't know how it's been so impossible to just have a normal, like that freaks me out a little bit. That's really all this is. So be— and to be that sadness ends up making me feel like things are kind of temporary and, good things won't last too long. Or you know, I'm getting better and better and all that, but really the core, that's what it is.[00:27:59] You know, it's the sadness, like with— like things that, things aren't reciprocated in the right way or, even that you know, why am I, again, into a girl who has a kid. Like, why can't I just date someone in this fucking area. Who you know anything, like what, (pause) that sounds maybe too simplistic, I don't know. But, (pause) But anyway, I just had this moment where I was like, that's all this is. Like, I just feel very sad (background noise) But by all these years of all this shit, and that doesn't make it easy to just sit down and Okay, now I'm going to write my novel. You know, there's this stuff that needs to (pause) get flushed out or whatever, you know. Even though I feel mostly really good, that has nothing to do with that. You know, so. (pause)[00:28:56]
THERAPIST: It's funny you can be aware of this general sadness, but when it gets into being specific, it has this feeling like your mind kind of ties up loose ends with a blanket made statements so you don't' really have to think about it to much. You know like you say 'all these years of all this shit' that tells us 
CLIENT: I'm like that in general though in conversation 
THERAPIST: I know
CLIENT: Yeah, I think, the pro—, See this is why, I like, like, I like being asked questions, Like when I'm out and about, like I've said it in here right like, it just annoys me. I like people to want to know things and ask things. Cause then I can be specific. But otherwise I'm not a very, (pause) ex, I mean I'm sure subconsciously I'm protecting myself. [00:29:56]I mean I get what you are saying. But yeah, my mind doesn't even go there, like when I say all these things, I can't think even of something specific. You know. SO I don't' know what that means. Like if you want to ask me more specific things, like I don't 'know what we are supposed to do but. 
THERAPIST: That might be something helpful, I mean I do ask lots of questions in work. I do. But it's also interesting because right there, to notice because you just said something really specific actually in noticing how hard it is to find yourself, the specifics of yourself. If you're not asked, if you don't know, if you don't know for sure the other person wants to know
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: It's almost hard for you to find your psyche, it's not that you are thinking something specific right now and you're lust not saying it. You're not, you're actually struggle to even kind of locate yourself. And part of that is being something about the mutuality or reciprocity (sp), or [00:31:01]
CLIENT: Well and I think the idea is that, if you have, if you felt so outside, and that things weren't reciprocal, and what happens is, unless I know, let's say in a relationship, unless I know someone really fucking, I, it's like as if I feel like they don't even deserve to know those, those are some heavy duty, deep things, so I'm not going to just fucking blurt that shit out to someone, you and me, like I need to know that I'm going to get something in return for that, or that the genuinely care or you know. Like it's not just small talk to me. So, so in a way I think that's good actually. Cause I don't like people that just talk about their issues or whatever. I think that's got to be, what's the quote? Like, you know even your suffering is precious in a way, like, I, I kind of believe in that kind of shit. It's a different kind of blessing. You know. [00:32:02] Pfft, that sounded gay, but you know it is, if you can turn it into, like what I try to do. That's an amazing feeling, when you can turn that suffering into art, or just become a better person. So to me it's not something you just flippantly talk about randomly. You know, it's got to be, so that's one. Two is that, I give you that, yeah, I'm not, I'm not able often to, so I'm not trying to put it off on other people, I'm just saying that it's hard for me to talk about. And, but it does become easier, so if someone is like so, you know, once on long dates, if they ask me how my dad died, I can talk about it. It doesn't, it doesn't, It's not easy, but I can talk about it. You know. Or like if you know they ask me you know, 'what was it like being an only child' you know, or something like that. Then I can talk about it. Again, I feel uncomfortable, but you know, I could get into it. But, it's never just something I say, like I don't (pause) [00:33:00]
THERAPIST: You could feel that, even in here. 
CLIENT: (yawns) What's that, sorry. 
THERAPIST: Uncertain about, whether I really want to hear, or 
CLIENT: no, no, no, I know you want to hear. It's more like, I can't, like I said, unless I know there is something specific, I can, my mind doesn't go to specific memories, that say, oh yeah, I'd like to talk about' I don't' know why, it just goes to these generalities. You know. Now, I—
THERAPIST: Yeah it doesn't, just pause there for just a second, it doesn't necessarily have to be specific memories, but I noticed for example we were talking recently about a couple dreams, you often sort of move into collapsing there being any potential meaning about it. [00:34:02] Like, sort of, 'So anyway, how strange was that?' So, and then sort of move on. Like not actually interested—
CLIENT: Because I don't know what I'm supposed to, to do
THERAPIST: Maybe that's it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Maybe there's a lot your dreams as one example could say about what is going on in your mind. That it's not 
CLIENT: I guess that's where I get, it's like I feel like well, if she's not, if she doesn't say like 'oh, well that image is interesting' or that, then I just, I don't' know what to make of it. So I'm just like alright. You know what I mean? Not, and you know, I don't, you know how I am, I don't like to just be quiet and talk some [inaudible] 
THERAPIST: So that's part of it too, I think, being able
(crosstalking) 
CLIENT: So dreams kind of scare me a little bit because I don't like superstition. 
THERAPIST: Superstition? Like they are some kind of prophecy? 
CLIENT: Yeah like, you know, my family, they're very, my mom, my grandmother, they are still kind of old school, like they had that dream book. Those old dream books, you know, your truth means this
THERAPIST: Oh yeah
CLIENT: Shit like that. 
THERAPIST: Hogwash.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I know, but because I grew up with that, it does spook me out a little bit. (pause) I mean, I guess in here it wouldn't because I know that is not what we would talk about. 
THERAPIST: But it might still. You're saying you have even a whole set of associations with even talking about what those dreams mean 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I get a little, I guess deep down, because I come from that family, part of me is like, maybe it does, you know maybe the, purple window does mean x will end z. So, I don't know, I've just always hated that kind of stuff. 
THERAPIST: Were dreams talked about, I mean you were aware of having this book in the family. 
CLIENT: Yeah, there is a dream called, in English I don't know what it would be called, I don't know the dream book, or the dream dictionary, or whatever. It's this old, thick, thick, thick book. (clears throat) yeah you literally, tooth falling out. You know. I don't know. Whatever, a crowd of people really loud, I don't know. You can look shit up and it will tell you. (pause) Say when I was younger I do remember some, oh, I like they read coffee cups and shit like that. That one's a little more, because they generally make it positive. But still it's all about kind of superstition and that your fate is out of your control. 
THERAPIST: And when you as a kid, just that book, looking, I'm sure you looked up your own dreams and 
CLIENT: No I never did actually, amazingly enough. 
THERAPIST: You never did? 
CLIENT: Well, also cause back then, I didn't remember my dreams. This is all new, just been the last, whatever years, that I really remember dreams. (clears throat) But yeah, I do remember the book, that's tattered cover, of this kind of angel looking woman, kind of sitting on these like (clears throat) [00:37:00] ruined stairs, basically they are going up to heaven or something. It's like ridiculous, but (clears throat) But, yeah, 
THERAPIST: You're (inaudible) about, that what was, part of sort of fate, predicting who you were. 
CLIENT: Yeah, or, what, some— that whatever was going to happen to you, was out of your control. Good or bad. (pause) So. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Now that would make you anxious about finding out dreams. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't think it's that as much, I really do think part of it is just, because again, generally I tend to like say something and just 
THERAPIST: Move on
CLIENT: Move on. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (chuckles) 
CLIENT: Again, unless someone stops and says 'So, what, what did you mean by that', something, you know? Then I'm willing to pause but otherwise I tend to kind of—
THERAPIST: And, do you know why? Move on [00:37:59]
CLIENT: I, I get shy, I feel awkward. I feel, well what is there really to say about it. You know. (pause) 
THERAPIST: So, it's also really new for me to say, what if you just try to say, slow it down, and see what there is to say about it. You, because at parties, you've been sitting in silence trying to think about it for a second. 
CLIENT: Yeah and I've always, Yeah I've always been uncomfortable. (pause) Again, I think it's, it's, when people ask, I've noticed, I'm very thoughtful about it I try to, I stop and I—So that's different. If somebody's asking me something, I don't mind being quiet for a while and thinking of what we're talking about. But in general, I'm just not good—and I'm like that with just socializing. (clears throat) Silences are kind of like, a little weird, you know. (pause at 00:38:54] for 50 seconds) . 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's weird, I wish I knew why I feel as restless as I do. (pause)[00:39:54] (clears throat) It's like, I guess I just, I don't' know what to do with . Like I was just thinking about, you know what am I doing when I leave here. And it's like it's all so new, It's like, I guess I can do anything . And it's all fine, things are fine. I don't' have— there's nothing pressing and super stressful or problematic, or you know what I mean? Like, I'm not thinking like, I'm not thinking about 'oh I don't have any money' or I'm not thinking about (clears throat) 'how I'm going to get this record out' . I'm not thinking about should I live at home with my mom and that fucking, that, (laf) You know what I mean? I don't—So literally, things, I would think things like well, 'should I just go to Starbuck's chill out, do a little work'. Like, that just seems so foreign, you know. (pause) It's weird. [00:40:55]
THERAPIST: Is it because it's both the old and the new in that moment, so it's quiet for a second where your mind goes is thinking about 'what am I going to do after this'. On the one hand, it's like you're, it's sinking in that you don't have to do anything, its okay. Things are good, today is a good day. But it's also a little moment where your, your mind needs now, just to notice what it did. Sort of thinking about, it gets out of here for a second. Like what is next. But that, you've been so used to, thinking about the future. Kind of anxious in thinking about the future, as a way of trying to control now and a way of trying the whole fatalism and (inaudible). You know, when am I going to die? When is this going to happen, this bad thing in the future. And I've had so little space to just relax and be in the present. just be with yourself. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: I think that's what's reality (inaudible) is it's possible to just be. Just to be who you are, let those thoughts and feelings come flowing through. [00:42:00]
CLIENT: Right, and because that's been happening way more now. It's mostly great and there are these moments where, I think I feel jittery, cause I'm just like, I, what should I do right now? Should I, You know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, as you are focusing less on the future, it started like, okay, this is being, but you're not used to it. It can feel kind of empty, like there is nothing there. 
CLIENT: Right, right, right. 
THERAPIST: What's going to be there, then if you're not worrying about the future so much? I don't think you know the answer to that question yet. That's part of what we've been, work here with. What's going to come up if you're not anxiously filling the silence. With just something to talk about til there's something to talk about. 
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah. 
THERAPIST: What's there, you know? (pause) Like Thursday, Friday (laf) My turn now, 
CLIENT: 3:10? 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
END TRANSCRIPT
