<b><center>MOTIVATIONAL INTERVIEWING WITH DR. WILLIAM MILLER</center></b>
<b><center>CLIENT 01 SESSION 02</center></b>
<center>______________________________________________________________________________</center>
<b>INTRODUCTION:</b>
William R. Miller, PhD, the originator of Motivational Interviewing, is Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of New Mexico and Director of Research for UNM's Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse &amp; Addictions. Dr. Miller has published 25 books and more than 200 articles and chapters on the treatment of alcoholism and other addictive behaviors.
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: The last time we talked about your struggles with depression and you're in the third round of that and you are starting to come out of it at this point, doing a lot of the right things. You exercise regularly, do yoga which sort of in combination with meditation helps you. Keeping yourself busy. You enjoy cooking and doing things for friends. We also talked a bit about the inner critic, the kind of harsh things you say to yourself—(inaudible 0:00:42). Just fill me in a little bit on what has happened since the last time you were you here. 
CLIENT: We met on Tuesday and I was not really able to reconstruct everything I have done, but I know I went biking on Friday morning for an hour—went into work a little late. [0:01:03]
I went to yoga on Thursday morning. On Wednesday evening I went to a (inaudible 0:01:14) class on depression that I have been taking. It is kind of a generic class and that inner critic concept—which surprised I haven't thought more about that before, I'm sure—the critic thing—but that was kind of part of what the focus was in the class. It really hit me pretty hard. Like—I was pretty broken down after that.
THERAPIST: That sounded really familiar. [0:01:44]
CLIENT: It did. There was this list of fifteen things people's inner critics sometimes say to them. They asked you, “Which of these resonate with you?” There were a good solid ten of them that hit pretty—I tried to go to swim practice after the class—it was everything I could do just to get there. (inaudible 0:02:10) twenty-five minutes.
THERAPIST: Okay. [0:02:13]
CLIENT: Other than—I'm doing—my place is kind of decrepit. With help from friends and family, I kind of got started fixing it up. A lot of paint. But lately—paint and doorknobs, fixing doors that didn't shut—lately a bit more ambitious project is doing a tile surround.
You add all this stuff up and it doesn't sound like I am a depressed person.
THERAPIST: You are not acting like one.
CLIENT: I am a very driven person. I pretty much know it would be worse if I weren't doing anything. If I just kind of laid there and dwelled on the depression, it would be worse.
THERAPIST: Definitely. [0:03:10]
CLIENT: But on that mood scale that goes from one to ten, I hit twos a lot. 
THERAPIST: I expect you would hit four.
CLIENT: I just keep pressing on.
THERAPIST: Four is a pretty good day.
CLIENT: I don't get four for a day. I get four for (inaudible 0:03:30).
THERAPIST: Okay. You are doing a lot of things to keep going and that is part of who you are. Driven—I'm going to get through this. I'm going to do this.
CLIENT: Yes. I never cut myself any slack. So if I could just kind of sit, sip tea and read a book—I try to do that but I don't. I would enjoy doing things at a slower pace and sort of respect myself if I did things at a slower pace. But even in my recreation, like swimming, I sort of feel compelled to try to swim faster.
THERAPIST: One obstacle, then, to a more relaxed way of being is tell yourself it is not okay, it is not good enough. Sitting and reading a book isn't okay. It is not productive enough. [0:04:43]
So I think that is a pretty important theme, self talk. Interesting that the class you went to this weekend, that happened to be the theme of it as well.
CLIENT: And you mentioned last week, Tuesday, that—I don't know, you just picked up on that—you seem to be very hard on yourself. There is just all sorts of people saying that about me. It seems like a real deep place to focus and do some good work. (inaudible 0:05:15) on how to change that.
THERAPIST: Yes. Well the good news is that is quite changeable. There are some well-established therapies specifically working on that kind of nasty inner-critic voice that work very well. The evidence is quite solid that they are helpful so you don't have to live with that critic inside all the time. That might be a real key for you—something to add to what you have been doing to make (inaudible 0:05:51). 
CLIENT: You said wanted to pick up on the relationships thing and I was kind of thinking about the interplay between those two. It is just that I get a lot of positive feedback from friends, relationships, therapy sessions, and I feel like each of those is kind of like is a—it is conceivable that each of those—what it is really doing is checking my inner critic some. That is why being broken up with just reinforces my inner critic... [0:06:42]
THERAPIST: Big time.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Criticism in a way.
CLIENT: Yes. Like my fault—when something—or not making the relationships work.
THERAPIST: I knew it all along...
CLIENT: I didn't do it well enough. If only I had done it better.
THERAPIST: It might be useful to tell me briefly at least, the story of the three relationships that you talked about and what happened with those. It might also touch a bit on this other (inaudible 0:07:15).
CLIENT: Well first of all, there is my marriage. And we were together—although not married for the whole time—for 17 years.
THERAPIST: Long time.
CLIENT: Yes. And in the last couple of years of our relationship we just seemed like we both stopped feeding it. I was a bit exhausted and anxious from work. I had a project that I had tackled and also just like not knowing where to go from here. She was feeling kind of uninspired by me at that point. I mean, I was—and she actually has a prolonged tendency towards depression, so that—I guess—I'm theorizing a bit much here, but I was losing that validation in that relationship. 
THERAPIST: You both sort of sunk at the same time. 
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: She wasn't giving you the positive input and support that helps counterbalance that inner critic. [0:08:27]
CLIENT: Interestingly we stayed friends. We are really good friends. I consider her to be one of my best friends—maybe my best friend.
THERAPIST: Still.
CLIENT: That was seven years ago. A few years later, I met a pretty interesting and amazing woman on a plane and our relationship took off like a rocket and she—this is embarrassing, I'm afraid, but—I was so head over heels that I proposed and we got engaged. Then I moved to where she lives. We met on a plane—we don't live in the same town. When I moved there I just—I had given up my job, I had given up all my friends and family and all of a sudden was in this strange place with this person that I didn't actually know remotely well enough to get married to. And vice versa. Things fell apart very quickly. It took me—I moved out pretty quickly. It was really a disaster for both of us. It took me more than a year to pull out from that. I had to reconstruct—find a career situation, move back to this area, and it just took a long time to pull myself back together. [0:10:21]
THERAPIST: When you say it took off like a rocket, what was it that was so primal (ph 0:10:25)? What drew you together?
CLIENT: Well something kind of interesting is she was on her way home from a triathlon and I was on my way to a triathlon. So we got on the plane and then we met at this oversize luggage area again where you get your bikes out. So the real common interest was sports. I loved having someone energetic to go hiking with and running with and biking with. She was great. [0:11:12]
And then actually this third relationship was really important to me, that didn't work. Again, a super athlete—out of my league, actually—but we did a three-day backpacking trip where we easily covered 20 miles and we just had our similar pace, also more similar values than the previous one—both kind of into sustainability and that is actually how we met. We sort of crossed paths in that world. 
Here is something else that just keeps hitting me is those two women—the more recent two—were a lot younger than me, so the possibility of family is still there. Over and over again, I keep sort of getting hit by that fact that I never took the plunge and had the family. Which I just try to judge—I was just starting to just face the idea that now I am 46 and it probably won't happen, which is—and then you start wondering well, what do you do with the remaining 30 years? Where does all that closeness and community come from if you don't have any— [0:12:50]
THERAPIST: What was the undoing of this last relationship?
CLIENT: Well, can we back up a little bit?
THERAPIST: Please.
CLIENT: I have this heightened suspicion—I have this sort of growing suspicion, maybe a belief now, that I am somewhat bi-polar. (inaudible 0:13:18) bi-polar—and so I go on these tears where I do all sorts of amazing things—I (inaudible 0:13:26) and I juggle a lot of other things and I cover a lot of ground athletically and I think the person that I am with is absolutely amazing and then there is—it goes from sort of that to—a sort of very anxious state. But still on a tear. 
I am not remotely as fun to be around once I start getting anxious. I remember on July 4th, I was very sort of—she had suggested, “Let's go to this fireworks thing” and it was along ways away. It was on Route 2, the back way to (inaudible 0:14:18). The show was supposed to start at 10:00 and I could see the afternoon sort of moving along. I was very driven to get us to that show and I kind of actually spoiled her afternoon. Because I think she—even though she suggested that the fireworks show would be a nice thing to go to, I don't think she was as driven to make that happen as once I picked up on the suggestion, I was kind of like, “Okay, it's happening.” [0:14:47]
So anyway, I get—and then as I start to slump off that, there is just some state of anxiety that hits me. As I start to slump off, I am no longer the superman that (inaudible 0:15:06) and any relationship cannot take that five or six months of a relationship. 
And then—one other thing—I mean, she has definitely got faults of her own. I may have been her rebound relationship from something that had lasted for several years for her. So she had a whole lot of—maybe she was thinking she was going to be able to turn the page on that a lot more quickly than she was actually able to. 
THERAPIST: So in the two most recent ones, there was kind of a honeymoon period—you have a lot in common doing things together, having fun, and then you kind of slump in a way that you wonder if there is something biological going on there maybe. [0:15:55]
CLIENT: Yes, and we don't even have to explain it in biological terms. I mean, it just sort of—I feel—let's go back to the inner critic. The inner critic drives me to do stuff.
THERAPIST: So (inaudible 0:16:06) do that? 
CLIENT: Maybe it exacerbates something that is biological, but sort of the stress and the drive and the hope—maybe it would push anybody with this (inaudible 0:16:19) whether or not they have had some biological tendency or not. Like I almost just don't really care about whether or not—what terms one analyzes it in.
THERAPIST: Sure. It may make a difference in what you try to do about it, but you can imagine that inner critic just wearing you out all by itself?
CLIENT: Yes, I can also imagine how stress can mess with your judgment.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And pile that off on the wonderful relationship—which affects most people's judgment (chuckles). So anyway, but there is a cyclic nature to my moods that, in retrospect, they are wider than—it is a wider cycle. 
THERAPIST: Right. The question is what to do about that.
CLIENT: That is certainly one pretty big question. One thing that is a little bit of progress is that I have suspected this before, but now I am pretty convinced that a big factor for me is these sort of driven states followed by crashes. If I can sort of moderate the driven state so—because coming back to the house projects, I can feel myself starting to get—the time scales here can be anything from a few hours to many months or even a year, okay? I can feel myself getting driven to finish a project. I am getting better at going, “Well, that is enough on that project for this evening”, and putting up the tools, then sort of sitting back and being happy with whatever got done. Trying to do that, anyway. It is imaginable. Whereas I know that if I just let it go, I would have the energy—if I just let the state go, I would have the energy to stay up for a couple more hours and make some more progress. But I think I pay up for that the following ensuing days. [0:18:30]
THERAPIST: Yes, that is the reason not to do that. Wearing yourself out.
CLIENT: Yes, and especially right now while I am pretty depressed. The wearing myself out thing happens a lot more easily.
THERAPIST: It strikes me you are doing a really good job of managing a very difficult mood situation for you. You are active—now with this you were saying, “I ought to get some sleep tonight, just take it easy and not push myself too much.” You are doing things to be healthy. Yet there is still a missing piece here. It has to do with whether it is something that is just biological or is this critic getting intense and wearing you out, wearing you down over time. But there is a sort of cyclic nature to it that is puzzling. What to do about that?
CLIENT: Yes. You know—in that first session, as you said, to be at peace with the present?
THERAPIST: Yes. Whatever it is.
CLIENT: Be at peace with myself? Be at peace with my present?
THERAPIST: It sounds like the opposite of being critical of yourself all the time.
CLIENT: And having to be very goal-oriented. 
THERAPIST: Sitting having a cup of tea and reading a trashy novel is all right.
CLIENT: Yes, which just don't cycle down and do the right...
THERAPIST: If you do, the critic starts getting nasty.
CLIENT: Yes, or I just don't take pleasure in it. Or maybe it is because the critic is thinking I'll take pleasure because the critic is nasty. 
THERAPIST: When you were talking about it, it looked like there was a little twinkle in your eye about that being pretty enjoyable—sit and have a cup of tea and read a book. 
CLIENT: It was more like I wish I could be that way rather than it actually makes me happy.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. It is an idea more than a reality.
CLIENT: Yes. [0:20:44]
THERAPIST: There are things you enjoy doing.
CLIENT: Lots, yes. Right now, you look at all the things I am doing and you go, “That's not acting very much like a depressed person.” But I have a lot of (inaudible 0:21:03) so I just push myself to do these—really, really, push myself.
THERAPIST: Yes, well I can surely see the pain. A couple of things we've hit at that—one of these that it might be sensible to try given what you are experiencing are to work on that inner critic (inaudible 0:21:35) talking to yourself. 
CLIENT: (inaudible 0:21:38)
THERAPIST: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: (inaudible 0:21:41)
THERAPIST: Oh. And just try to create a kinder voice. I don't know if it even matters so much where the harsh voice came from as to be a kinder voice to yourself. Be your own friend in a way. And another would be to explore whether there are medications that are helpful in stabilizing mood that might make a difference too. Those don't necessarily need to be incompatible. You could try both those avenues and see what the outcome is. There may be other things that are very good that I haven't mentioned so far. [0:22:27]
What are you thinking at this point about the next step?
CLIENT: Well, I would just like to get—so let's talk about sort of where I am at right at the moment, I guess. It is kind of a—I feel like there is a sort of a triple whammy going on right now. And so one is just—I lost somebody—so the normal grieving.
THERAPIST: Yes. To some extent, feeling bad is where you would expect to be.
CLIENT: Two is—that when you love somebody, their criticism has so much weight.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Being rejected by them has so much weight.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So that piles on to me—inner critics. And three is this suspicion that I am going in cycles. So I kind of say it is a triple whammy. I have got all three going right now. 
THERAPIST: Right. [0:23:40]
CLIENT: And to some degree, time will fix all three.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So if someone becomes further and further back, the memory gets less vivid and eventually you move on. 
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Some people can move on in a month or two and some people it takes a year or two. And then you can look at the relationship with a little bit more perspective and go, “Maybe it wasn't all your fault. Maybe this was wasn't the right person. She had some fault.” 
And three, and to the extent that there may be some kind of a cyclic thing that I just have to recover from and time is my friend. So I am in a survival mode right now. But my mood keeps sinking so badly that it tough to be in a survival mode. So anyway, you said, “What are you thinking about next?” 
THERAPIST: Yes. [0:24:45]
CLIENT: I am thinking about surviving this stinking state. 
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And as much as it takes to get out of it.
THERAPIST: And you are doing a lot already to survive that well. I was asking about trying one or both of a couple of things that would be useful to see what lift you might get out of those. 
CLIENT: You were thinking mood stabilizers for one.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And what was the other?
THERAPIST: The other is to work on the—
CLIENT: Inner critic, yes.
THERAPIST: —what is called cognitive therapy.
CLIENT: Yes, I definitely want to work on that one, although I think my inner critic is so—I mean, if I tell myself—if I say to myself, “I have been good”—I think it is as good as I can—
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: As soon as I say, “I have been good”, I think there is some part of me that says I have not been good enough.
THERAPIST: Right, and that is the voice. The not enough—the not good enough.
CLIENT: But being good is so far in me, I think it goes back as long—absolutely as long as I can remember. I am sort of hopeful that there are ways to work around this inner critic. But I feel like it is really ingrained—so I am only slightly hopeful. 
THERAPIST: Well I would like to lend you a little hope around that because I have seen real change happen with people who are very hard on themselves and have been for a long time. It isn't the wanting something good for yourself or wanting to move in a certain direction in your life so much as tormenting yourself that what you are doing isn't enough right now or that each step—there is something wrong with your—should have done it better or could have done it differently. That voice, if not silenced, can certainly be gentled. It is something that is doable and worth working on. [0:27:17]
Cognitive therapy has been around for quite awhile now—40 years. We understand well how to do that and it has got a really good track record. Of all the things we have talked about, that is the one that strikes me as something really worth trying as a source to prevent this pain for you—and one I think you don't have to live with.
I don't know whether medication would be helpful with that. I work with a biological psychiatrist on those kinds of questions. But sometimes there is just sort of an underlying cycle that is going on that everything else gets laid on top of. And if you can kind of flatten that out a little bit, that can help, too. So it is—I think you try things and you have done a lot of trying things to find what helps. Some of it—tweak medicine maybe—a little bit of movement in the right direction, but maybe one of those will turn out to be a little bit stronger medicine.
CLIENT: You know, the cognitive thing—sort of combating negative thoughts—
THERAPIST: Yes, exactly.
CLIENT: They are kind of (inaudible 0:28:34) negative thoughts?
THERAPIST: Yes, that is one kind.
CLIENT: Yes, that—sort of I've done that a bunch. And I think that I haven't done a bunch of the—combating the inner criticism types of thoughts. 
THERAPIST: It sounds pretty vicious.
CLIENT: Yes, it is.
THERAPIST: That is, I think, worth spending some time.
CLIENT: My next—I think it is my next try.
THERAPIST: Yes. You are right that when someone is rather consistently loving to you, criticism matters. Especially hers. And I guess on the optimistic side, when you have been consistently critical of yourself, a little bit of positive stuff can make a real difference. I had one professor who, if you ever got a compliment from this guy, it was amazing. It was that example of when it has always been critical—because if that changes you really notice. It is really different there.
I think that is doable and I think it might make a real difference for you. That might be a next step. [0:29:57]
CLIENT: Do you want to talk about the relationships some more like at the end of last time? Did we go into that as much as you wanted?
THERAPIST: I think so, yes. I wanted to get a sense of how that tied into the rest of what we had talked about. I rather like your hunch that at some point it is getting intense enough that your inner critic is driving you in a negative direction and that may be a piece of what is going on there. 
I mean, one thing I was thinking about is sometimes people are, I have found, attracted to exactly the wrong kind of person. So I was looking around for a little bit of that and didn't come across it. Sometimes when there is one relationship crash after another, it is the kind of person you are being drawn to in the first place that sets it up for failure. I didn't hear that. [0:31:07]
CLIENT: Well, in these more recent cases, I think there may be an element to that.
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: Because I need someone that is very compatible and understanding to me intellectually. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I think I didn't hit it spot on. I mean, I hit it a little closer this most recent time, but—certainly not someone that wanted to deal with my darker sides and I think I tend to fall in love with people that are sort of happy and easygoing and maybe don't appreciate someone who isn't always happy and easygoing.
THERAPIST: But that would be a natural choice for, wouldn't it? Someone who is very positive and compassionate and affectionate—it would be a nice counterpoint to your inner critic.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Then the inner critic doesn't get the upper hand.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Is there anything else you were wondering about or that—
CLIENT: (inaudible 0:32:34). Yes, how do I let go of (inaudible 0:32:44) or this woulda, coulda, shoulda on having a family? Given that I am not busy to the max with kids and grandkids, what am I supposed to with the hours between 8:30 and 10:30 at night? And the hours between 6:30 and 8:00 in the morning? Before and after the days' work is done and it is still dark out this time of year—you know, what for me is going to—I'm really lost as to what for me is going to—if I am not goal-oriented, then where am I going to find meaning? [0:33:28]
THERAPIST: Oh. It is not clear to me that you have let go of that dream or have to. I mean the last two relationships, that has sort of been in the background as a hope and there are lots of ways to have a family even if you are not having biological children.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So that one seems a little unresolved as to whether that is a road you want to go down.
CLIENT: Yes, and whether or not it is just the grass is greener on this other side of the fence and I am just kind of miserable now for other reasons. I really don't know and I can't tell. And also given that I am sort of unstable—clearly unstable in some way, personality-wise, I might not be the best guy to be biting off this much—taking care of a kid. That is a lot of responsibility.
THERAPIST: You just wouldn't expect the child to fix that for you?
CLIENT: Right. And it is so much responsibility that if I go into one of these crash states—whatever that—if I can't find just sort of a happy equilibrium and you have all that additional responsibility—
THERAPIST: You're good at keeping going, though.
CLIENT: I do keep going. [0:35:04]
THERAPIST: And then there is a bigger question there of, “How do I spend my time?” Or beyond that, “What is the purpose of my life? What do I want my life to mean? What do I give the priority to? What do I care most about? What do I choose to be the purpose of my life?” That is worth spending some time on, too. 
CLIENT: Yes, I really don't know what to sink my teeth into. And I know that when I do have something that I am excited about, that I can make an awful lot of progress on it but at this point I'm adrift on what I am supposed to be excited about.
THERAPIST: Learning that is pretty important, too—or deciding, “This is what I want to give my time to. This is what I want to have be a contribution that I make.” That is well worth exploring (inaudible 0:36:10).
CLIENT: Yes. And that one is a really hard one to explore. I have done a bunch of exploring on that one. I have tried all sorts of random little career switches and not really found it there. I know I am very animated when I am doing things for friends or for my partner. 
THERAPIST: The good clue is in that.
CLIENT: It goes back to, though, getting positive feedback. Maybe I am animated because I am getting positive feedback.
THERAPIST: (inaudible 0:36:44).
CLIENT: But you don't always get positive feedback. Like if you have a kid—you may get one heck of a lot of negative feedback and you have got to keep doing it anyway. 
THERAPIST: Yes. [0:36:59]
CLIENT: And if your partner is in a dark stage, you may not get much positive feedback from that person.
THERAPIST: Or want.
CLIENT: So at some level you just have to have your own positive feedback. 
THERAPIST: Inner praiser rather than critic. Encourager, at least.
CLIENT: Encourager, praiser and just good enough. You can rest.
THERAPIST: Rest today. That's enough.
CLIENT: Over the last several years of these three depressions—it's no too (0:37:44) to say that I really understand why they put RIP on tombstones. Rest in Peace. (inaudible 0:37:55) I do not feel at peace.
THERAPIST: Yes. Sometimes dying looks restful when you are at the bottom like that. Wouldn't that be nice? Wouldn't that be...
CLIENT: Just the fact that it is on tombstones kind of makes me think it is a little bit part of an awful lot of people's human condition.
THERAPIST: Yes. It is an image that has been used for death for a long time.
CLIENT: It's not struggling.
THERAPIST: No pain.
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: So working on finding an inner encourager rather than an inner critic—maybe exploring some of the mood-regulating medications and something to sort out, “What do I want my life to be? What is going to be the purpose of it? What contributions will I make? Why does it matter that I am here.”
CLIENT: That is not easy to figure that out in this big super-complicated society where it is really hard to figure out where the (inaudible 0:39:09).
THERAPIST: It is a choice. It is hard to wait for that meaning to come along—something chosen and then (inaudible 0:39:25) that. 
CLIENT: So my latest career switch brought me into sort of environmental activism. That is one hard subject to make you feel like you are making much of a difference in a whole load of different ways. Everything from fundraising to do the work is not easy. Working in collaboration with all sorts of people that may be difficult to collaborate with is not easy anyway. So I am trying to find things to do to get me (inaudible 0:40:04). Have not found it making much of a difference in those areas. [0:40:09]
THERAPIST: It might be better for you to have something where you could see results more quickly.
CLIENT: Anyway, the point of that was just to explain that I think you keep exploring in those areas, like what (inaudible 0:40:41). It is not easy to figure out. 
THERAPIST: There are three (inaudible 0:40:50). These are the ones I haven't got to listen to (inaudible 0:40:53) done. 
CLIENT: Anyway, inner critic is next. I don't want to feel like there is an easiest to work on. 
THERAPIST: High priority.
CLIENT: Yes, because I am already doing that work with a psychiatrist. The ferreting out the meaning of life part—
THERAPIST: Will take a little longer.
CLIENT: So silence the inner critic is a good—I think the next talk—
THERAPIST: Change the voice to encourager. Well I wish you well with that. 
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: It is doable
CLIENT: I am glad to hear you say that. I am still skeptical.
THERAPIST: Of course.
CLIENT: Because I have been trying a lot of different things, but I am glad you think it is doable.
THERAPIST: At least weak medicine—every little bit.
CLIENT: Okay.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
