Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Today is the sixth.
CLIENT: So a lot has been going on.
THERAPIST: Been a month since I saw you last.
CLIENT: I know. I know. I have been doing better so the assignment that you gave me last week was ... or last month was touching my makeup bag and moving on.
THERAPIST: That's right.
CLIENT: And actually that kind of relieved a lot of pressure because sometimes like I'll touch my skin and you know like maybe scratch off dead flakes or something. I used to have to wash my hands before, you know touched other things. I mean unless I'm cooking because you want, you know ... but I just sort of ignore it or like if ... because I'm like well I touch my face, I scratch off skin and touch my makeup bag, you know like (pause) I just sort of connected. I connected with a lot of things like ... and I'm even getting better at like not washing my hands after I like, you know if I'm changing for dance and I just put my dirty underwear in my bag, you know I just have to let it go because I'm like, "Well you know." I mean and I still ... you know I wouldn't be cooking after that so I mean I guess, you know in many sense maybe that's reasonable. (laugh) But I guess yeah I'm just like being able to put on earrings and so a lot of these things got better and I'm still working on them. There's some days that I'm just like, you know when I'm stressed or nervous I will kind of go back into my bad habit of like worrying about, you know washing hands and I'm starting to try to use the tampon box to put it back in. Like I still have like that phobia back in the airplane I grab toilet paper from the tampon dispenser or the feminine disposal. So I'm trying to integrate that because it's sort of like I sort of realized that (pause) you know that's just sort of ... rather than just having to save it to go throw it out in like the master garbage can outside the bathroom or ... So yeah, but sometimes it's like hard because I just ... I get really kind of grossed out and freaked out and I realize that I never used to do that, you know just went in ...
(00:02:41)
I mean a couple of years ago I didn't even really care, I mean that's just really what you did. But I just sort of see that any new routine I sort of ... there is a rise in anxiety. Like for instance I had a conference recently at the Convention Center and there was a sink and soap and there was a dispenser on the wall and it kind of like a foamy stuff and I then I started to worry excessively about the foam and I realized that, "Wait. Well you know that was either another soap dispenser or a hand sanitizer." But I mean it took me a ... because it was different from routine and ...
THERAPIST: What were you worried about? You said you started to worry.
CLIENT: I didn't know what it was because it didn't say what it was on it. It just sort of had like Convention Center. It had green ... like green and the recycle signs and I was like, well I didn't know what it was and touching something and I don't know it, it freaks me out.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: But if it would have been bad it would have been ... it wouldn't have been there.
THERAPIST: Right. So you were worried that maybe it was some other kind of like toxic substance?
CLIENT: Yeah. (laugh) I don't know, it's crazy to think that if it was a toxic substance they wouldn't make it easily dispensable.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And that's what I eventually ...
THERAPIST: It most likely wouldn't have been convenient on the wall.
(00:04:02)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah so that's what I eventually ... but I was just ...
THERAPIST: So you got there?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I mean ...
THERAPIST: How many times a day do you think you're washing your hands? Like yesterday, today.
CLIENT: I would say it varies with how much I'm ... sometimes my tummy gets upset and I have to run to the bathroom. But I would say around fifteen probably.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Yeah. Probably about fifteen. (pause) And ...
THERAPIST: And that includes all hand washings? So times when we would consider it appropriate like after using the bathroom or before cooking?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. You know for most ... I guess most of these times like right before I go cooking I would just, you know I usually have to go to the bathroom because I'm coming home and I was like, "Okay well." You I've been coming home, you know it's just ... I really have to go to the bathroom.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: So I mean it a lot of times it works out best that way. I mean there's some a little bit unnecessary times like if I would say fifteen and occasionally twenty. So there's some unnecessary washing like today, like when I you know put moisturizer on my face and eye cream. Wait. But then I ... no I didn't put in my contacts. So yeah (laugh) that was unnecessary. (laugh) And when I put my underwear away and that was unnecessary. So yeah I guess there's things I have to work on. It's you know it's ...
THERAPIST: It's far different than, you know upwards of sixty?
CLIENT: Yeah. An upper bound of washing my hands like, you know forty times a day and you know plus it's like I also like I can start to tell if I'm nervous or if I'm anxious because I assume my hands get kind of dry and that makes me very sad and kind of upset so I do something to change it. So and that would be just, you know just really keep a habit and I mean I realized yesterday when I went to dance, I really didn't want to go to dance. I really just wanted to sit down.
(00:04:02)
But like it was this anxiety to get myself or like ... yeah to get myself to go to dance and I realized though that that's the sort of anxiety I need to do the right thing. Like something that is good for me, I need to like accept that. And it's hard. Like some days it's like I just really (laugh) no, no it's just. But I see that, you know that's something that it does need to get worked on continually. (pause) But you know that part it is getting better and I, you know I start to even worry ... I think it's just more of a habit now. A habit that goes along with ... goes along with just sort of like the anxiety of not doing the habit rather than the like ... like why I do it is even sort of just like bogged down. I don't really feel myself as like, you know that I'm gross ... like every now and then I have to remind myself that I'm fine, I don't have anything.
(00:07:28)
But most of the times it's just I see these habits are so ingrained that you do have to fight them.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like the fears of contaminating someone have really decreased?
CLIENT: Yes. I mean the fear of being contaminated on the other hand is still sort of like ... I still have the fear but me contaminating others has gotten better.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: So it's ... I didn't realize how I get complex and evolved like all of this had become. (pause) But I just sort of see that it's something that I do have to pay attention to and (pause) yeah and you know I should write myself a little note if (pause) you know every now and then just to remind myself or tally how many times I'm washing my hands, I think I should. Just to remind myself, you know what I'm striving for, what you know what's healthy, what's not and I think by keeping the running tally I think I'll have a ...
THERAPIST: Yeah just once in a while kind of taking that check on yourself.
(00:08:41)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sometimes we're not very good observers of our own behavior.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So just, you know once in a while purposely observing so that you can have a number of, "Well this is what it was today." And does that seem on target with most days?
CLIENT: Yeah. And in terms of other things such as like my relationship (pause) I started to get really kind of like a (pause) eerie feeling. I mean it's still going really well and I talked to him about it. But it's kind of like ... I don't know why I got so upset but it was just sort of ... he was talking about he wanted to go to Turkey and he kind of addressed the subject by, "You know when, you know how it is when you just want to go around and travel around the world by yourself and ...?" And here I am like sewing on these leather shoulder pads that I got him for Valentines Day on his sweater and I'm thinking, "Well, you don't know but I may like to travel with others." You know I was like why ... are you trying to say something? I was like I realized that I don't have the money to travel. But you know if you have this feeling like you want to travel yourself or you and just sort of felt like in my first relationship how (pause) my boyfriend he always thought I was like not good to travel with and because I slowed him down. We had sort of like inconsistent needs and desires when we traveled. And that wasn't the case when Jeremy and I traveled but ... so later I asked him, you know I was in tears because I just felt like it was very not including or like ... and he was like, "Oh I didn't mean it like that." He was like, "I just can't financially buy you a ticket and buy every, you know I can't, you know I just can't do that and still have money for other things." You know I said I understood that and you know I want him to travel but I don't like ... didn't like his phrasing. And then it sort of was like, you know there's these things like he said ... he was saying like, you know partially as a joke, partially as funny or you know like when I said, "Oh I really miss Andover." And he's like, "Yes, good girl." And he would like pat me on the head and you know or just like in the morning like ... just not like a, you know like a head scratch or something. But really just like a pat, pat like you would do a dog. And for some reason like I totally got like really bad déjà vu because that's what my ...
THERAPIST: Well it felt kind of condescending.
CLIENT: Yeah it did. It did. And so I told him that I just ... it didn't feel right like, you know I was just like it just doesn't feel like you respect me as a woman. It seems like, you know you pat a little girl on the head when she does something cute or when she, you know has done something good. But you don't do that to grown people.
THERAPIST: Not a (inaudible_00:11:47) at all. Not to a peer.
(00:11:49)
CLIENT: Yeah and so, I mean he understood. But it felt really bad though for like ... I don't know why there was such a ... like I was having all these nightmares like I was getting screwed over by every guy that I've ever known in these nightmares and you know I mean ...
THERAPIST: How long did you sit with that feeling before bringing it up to him?
(pause)
CLIENT: Well since the travel, I addressed the traveling thing but the 'good girl' (pause) he actually, he'd used it like from the very beginning for like intimate times, like when I was giving something to him, you know? And you know it always felt kind of creepy, but in the same sense I do like validation. I know there's psychological issues with that but anyway so it felt ...
THERAPIST: There are better ways to validate you that don't also feel somewhat like it vandalizing or condescending.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so (pause) so, yeah so that had gone on from the beginning but probably about like maybe (pause) maybe about like two weeks had gone by and finally like from just ... but really from the pat-pat.
(00:13:09)
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: When he did the pat-pat it was just later that afternoon. Because there was something about the pat-pat that just really like ... I mean because then just made me remember my ex-boyfriend and how he was like, "You're always going around searching for a pat-pat." And there I was getting a pat-pat and liking it and hating and you know and so it was just ... I mean my boyfriend is so sweet. He's very different and I told him. And he's like, "Oh I'm sorry. I won't do it to you. I wasn't trying to be condescending. I just thought it was funny." You know and he kind of like, he's was like, "Oh well you know if we can't laugh at ourselves then who can we laugh at?" I was like well, "That's kind of like excusing yourself." You know I explained that it's like you know I understand you're not doing it in any ill-will but you know would you do this to a grown woman? Like he's never done that to any of his friends, so.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: I mean so I got kind of upset that (pause) he, like I mean he apologized. But sort of like, "Well you ..." And he wasn't like, "Oh well you're the original one that you know would pat me on the head and it just feels so warm and loving." I was like, "I don't go like this jokingly." I scratch him on the head and give him a hug and give him a kiss. I mean that's ... you know instead of like, "Ooh, (inaudible_00:14:34)." You know? But anyway so that's ... but I didn't realize that ... he apologized. I think a lot of times people have a hard time saying I did something wrong, I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:14:48)
CLIENT: But yeah I felt like a uber-bitch, I mean. And (pause) I felt ...
THERAPIST: What felt uber bitchy about saying you didn't like something?
CLIENT: Well because (pause) I guess ... well I don't know. (pause) I guess I'm supposed to be like, you know I have this thing in my mind that if you're nice then you don't ... I guess my sort of view of nice has always been like give people what they want. (laugh) I mean that's what it really is in the same sense like I have a hard time speaking up and I think I internalize things. And there's one thing Jeremy actually gave me, he gave me a congratulations on, he's like you ... I was like I don't ... I was like, "Am I still nice?" And he's like, "Yeah." He's like, "You're really nice." He's like, "He were probably nicer when we first started hanging out but now you're like assertive too. Like you tell, you know ..." And I was like, "Oh so ..." I was like, "Yeah I'm not as passive/aggressive." He's like, "Yes you're not as passive/ aggressive." And then he's like, "You know need that sort of assertiveness to get along in the long run."
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:16:14)
CLIENT: And so I was happy. Because I feel like I have a hard time like meeting up with people and I just sort of feel like (pause) I'm supposed to have lunch with my colleague and like I always, "Like maybe tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow." But then I just don't come because I have a hard time, you know either breaking away from my work or breaking away from my habit. I mean partially it's because when you go out to eat, it can be expensive, it can be caloric and I guess it's going out of the safety zone and financially, calorically and then I have to spend time ... I mean I waste a lot of time at my computer while programs are running. But you know I mean (pause) I still feel guilty for just leaving them. It's kind of ... and it's just sort of seeing that I have ... I get anxiety whenever my routine is changing. And that's, I mean I guess that's everyone, join the club. But ...
THERAPIST: What's the worry if you were to get up and go have lunch someplace else?
CLIENT: Yeah.
(pause)
THERAPIST: I mean you've named a couple of them. One is it might have more calories than what you typically would eat for lunch.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: A little bit worried it sounds like that it could be more expensive than bringing lunch from home.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But what's the worry about changing the routine because it sounds like there's more in addition to the calories and the expense? (pause) What happens if you leave your computer programs?
CLIENT: Then I actually have to talk with people. And I always feel that people want a lot out of me. You know I feel like there's like, like for instance, there was this guy, I had that convention last week and there was this guy during undergrad, I just talked to him nonchalantly because he seemed really smart. He was watching all of these like a graduate seminars online. So you know of course I was naturally curious and I'd talked to him in the computer room to say, "Oh." He didn't say much but you know and so he e-mailed me before commuting and he was just like, "Oh you were the only person that really reached out and talked to me and I really want to take you out to lunch." And I was like, "No you don't have to take me out to lunch. We can just, you know have lunch a catch up." And then sort of like I, I kept on being like I really didn't want to meet him because, I mean I explained I had a boyfriend but there was just something like ... it's very emotionally exhausting to try and ... I guess for me to guess what they want to tell me or like what they think about me and um, like with this guy, I mean he was ... you know I eventually met him for coffee and it was just odd talking to someone for like an hour and just not having like you know any sort of days, any sort of framework. The only thing was that, you know I said I rambled to him, I mean. And so I felt mean for not wanting to meet with him but it's just so (sigh). You know I met with my friend Sam who is another ... who is my best friend from undergrad. And you know of course there's that sort of cold start from not seeing someone for a while but then we warmed up and like I was really happy I saw him.
THERAPIST: Mm.
(00:19:57)
CLIENT: And I saw him ...
THERAPIST: What felt different about the two meetings or get-togethers?
CLIENT: I know that Sam sort of had expectation which was that we were friends so I didn't have to feel worried like, "Are you trying to check me out? Are you trying to take advantage of me?" With Sam there was sort of like, I always knew there was like old stories and I could ask him about people and um, Sam, he's very nonjudgmental. He's just a little terse or I mean English isn't his first language. But I must have had warm fuzzy feelings about Sam.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Because he was a good friend. But this other guy I just ...
THERAPIST: Did you have the same kind of anxiety or apprehension about getting together with him that you did with this other guy?
CLIENT: No. No, with Sam I actually met with him before I met with this guy just because. It's just like, "Oh Sam." And (pause) yeah I met with Sam before and Sam was just sort of like ... this other guy I kept saying, "No I don't too. No." Or I'm sick. And I mean some of these days were I just didn't feel like coming into the seaport or ...
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Because that's a long commute but and then like (pause) with this guy, I mean he was like, "Oh I have a gift for you. You want to come up to my room?" That's just when I was just like, "This is really sort of inappropriate."
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean it seems like there you're intuition was maybe working correctly. Because it does ... you know it sounds like there was some signals there that, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What you wanted and what this other guy might have been wanting weren't in line.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And your intuition was kind of picking up on that and that made you nervous. So sometimes anxiety to get together with someone might be appropriate.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: And that I'm wondering like what's it about with your colleague that you keep avoiding lunch with? Is that an appropriate hesitation or is that social anxiety that seems like you shouldn't challenge it?
CLIENT: It's social anxiety and it's also like I have this with a lot my colleagues. Like my friend Devon. He was walking by and like, "Oh we should have coffee." And it's just like don't ... it is a little bit of social anxiety. I mean there's like social anxiety because I think the guy's kind of weird and creepy and then there's just sort of like social anxiety where I just really don't want to meet people or I get like ... you know like and that was the one thing being at the convention center, there are lots of people. I just ... that's something that made very tense. I don't know if in part, you know I'm competing with these people in my head because they all have papers, I don't have papers thanks to my advisor.
(00:23:02)
But anyway, so it's just very ... you know lots of new people, it is anxiety from the people. (pause) I mean if it's people I know like then, yeah I guess I just sort of ... I fear when I have to just think about interacting.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And I think sometimes like with my colleague, sometimes I'm just like, "Oh so this and this and this and this." You know I was like ... I mean eventually we got to be talking like on a very good level. But now it sort of like got severed because he came back, he was gone for about a week and half. I've only known him for like two or three weeks. So when he's gone a week you know it's ...
THERAPIST: Sounds like half the relationship there.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah I know. But yeah so (pause) Yeah I mean and another thing like I know like when I went out with my friend Myson yesterday because she was just like, "Oh let's have coffee." And I was like, "Yes let's have coffee." I said this immediately because I guess ... you know I'm trying to challenge myself and Myson usually feels nice to talk to. She's kind of like a nice hug and we went to Crème and when she got dessert she was like, "Come on have some dessert. Have some I can't have this." I was like, "No I am trying to watch my weight." And I was just like I felt a lot of pressure, you know? And I guess originally like in high school I was very ... I didn't got to social occasions very often because there would be food involved and I was anorexic then. I was trying to (pause) you know avoid food. Now I'm not trying to avoid food. I definitely eat enough and I'm eating healthy but having a four hundred calorie cookie in the middle of the day isn't healthy. Maybe like a hundred calories of chocolate after dinner is fine. But you know I'd rather save it like, you know for like ice cream after dinner or something.
(00:25:20)
And so I felt like I don't want to deal with these situations very well and like, well actually I had some. I had some English muffin and then I had less for dinner to compensate for that and I was just really hungry last night. So that's sort of what fear, you know and eventually I just had to eat an apple because it was one a.m. and couldn't get to sleep and (pause).
THERAPIST: So it's sounding a little rigid.
CLIENT: Me? (laugh)
THERAPIST: Well that plan. And I mean that goes a long with you know ... it goes along with obsessions, you know? So it's interesting to see that you had great increased flexibility with regard to not having to wash your hands after behaviors that you know maybe before you would have. And so you felt sort of the relief of flexibility there. But I'm noticing as you talk that it sounds a lot more rigid with regard to food than where it had been. So I'm wondering if you replaced the anxiety go a little bit more toward what you're eating and less ...
CLIENT: Yeah. I've been really obsessed with food and it's just ... I mean I will say that I weighed ... like I was 115 in previous semesters and now I'm 117. Of course if I went to a doctor they would shake their head and say ... but you know for a dancer I'm, you know I'm lean and I will say that. But you know and so because I am an increased, you know because I'm right at the weight that I want to be (pause) you know a slight deviations ... like I mean there's times ...
(00:27:04)
THERAPIST: What would happen if you were 118?
CLIENT: Well I would probably feel big and then I'd just have to go back to eating less and you know I'd really ... I mean there's times I just totally like, you know go out, I'll have three drinks on the weekends because I used to just not care. But now I sort of realize and now like ... if I'm 118 then I have to be more cautious. If I'm 115, you know I can go out and have nice dinners. I don't have to think about it, you know because I'm trying to gain weight and I can have as much sort of goodies and tasties ...
THERAPIST: There's a really big difference between what objectively is a very small weight difference. (laugh)
CLIENT: I know. (laugh)
THERAPIST: I figure you think you know the freedom that you give yourself at 115 verses the rigidity that you give yourself at 118 and I'm sure those feel like very real big differences to you. But stepping outside of that ...
(00:28:06)
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: I think most nutritionists would agree that that's not really that big of a difference.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And like only giving yourself the leeway of a couple of pounds and that you really only feel okay between 115 and 117 is too small of a window to be healthy.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know those weights might be okay but also you need to give yourself a little bit more room and flexibility in what feels like an acceptable weight to be at. Because we do have fluctuations.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know and that's really ... and I saw that you know in terms of like this semester that I have gained more muscle and that I am stronger.
THERAPIST: And that's perfectly healthy.
CLIENT: Yeah and that my body BMI on my little scale is the same if not lower than when I was 115, so. So I just sort of ... I've realized that, yeah I mean ... yeah I have gone ... my obsessions have gone to other things. I guess the handwashing really did ... like I mean I see that there's so much more going on in my life because of handwashing. I mean that was really a stopper. But now I'm actually talking to people and not just living in my room and you know in a sanitary ... (laugh) like I'm just really like changing in the bathrooms because I have to go to dance and like you know ...
THERAPIST: It gives you a lot more ways to interact and it's interesting to see how ... so you know changing the handwashing gave you all this freedom. But if you listen to what you're saying the rigidity about the food has been taking away ... hasn't really taken away the options because you've actually got yourself out to lunch and you got yourself out to coffee. But it sure put a barrier, it made it really hard to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or if somebody wanted to go out and have a snack with you it sounds like right now that would feel really disruptive.
(00:30:03)
CLIENT: Yes. (laugh)
THERAPIST: Because you have a plan that is the plan that feels like it will work and changing that up feels pretty risky it sounds like.
CLIENT: Yeah. I didn't realize. I realized I felt tense in a lot of areas and I felt like found myself getting mad at people for like ...
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: Yeah I was getting really mad at others and like I just felt like I just want to escape from people.
THERAPIST: People are getting in the way of the plan, right?
CLIENT: Yeah and it's just like ... you know just for instance, when I was at the pharmacy and like these people, like they will just ask me all these random questions and I'm just like, you know before I used to be, "Oh hi nice person." And then now it's just like, "Why are they asking me this question? Are you really this dumb?" It's just like (pause) Why is there, you know maybe ... you know maybe they just want to know how many tuna cans will feed six people. (laugh)
THERAPIST: (laugh)
(00:31:06)
CLIENT: Or what the pharmacy is about and I just realized that I, you know I guess this is ...
THERAPIST: So the question is not that different from your reaction to them?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You feel a little bit more on edge than you realize.
CLIENT: Yeah I have been and I guess that sort of (pause) yeah I ... yeah I have. And (pause) in a sense like (pause) I don't know. I guess I ... you know I haven't had to deal with people so much until like yeah now that I'm taking the 'T' and you know living half the time where my boyfriend lives. We're going to be living together which I think will simplify ...
THERAPIST: Last time we met you had been thinking about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So now this is the plan?
CLIENT: Yeah it is the plan and like you know ...
THERAPIST: Starting?
CLIENT: September 1<sup>st</sup>. So we have time to think of, you know to find a nice place and it really ... like I haven't told my parents but I realize that as an adult it's going to be so much more convenient for me to live and you know we see each other all the time.
THERAPIST: This is a place where you spend time.
CLIENT: Yes. (laugh) I mean and I see already like, you know these are things ... things will need to be sorted out. Like he doesn't have an eighth of teaspoon and a fourth of a teaspoon.
(00:32:36)
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: And he doesn't want a different set inside his drawer and his set doesn't have a fourth or eighth of a teaspoon. But ...
THERAPIST: Lost it at one point.
CLIENT: I know. (laugh)
THERAPIST: (laugh) I bake.
CLIENT: Yeah I know. He doesn't ... I mean that thing is he doesn't ...
THERAPIST: He doesn't realize that you need those things.
CLIENT: I know. I know.
THERAPIST: Well it's not going to be his drawer anymore.
CLIENT: I know and so it's kind of scary and exciting and I'm just going to be happy that I can be at home because I mean ... it's funny even though I don't spend much time in my room I'm still like, "Oh this is my room."
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: This is my place.
THERAPIST: Yeah it will be nice to feel like you're at your place with him rather than feeling like you're at his place.
CLIENT: Yeah. And like have drawers to put things and like instead of just having a little corner.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: I mean ... because I was like well this kind of looks messy and (pause) but ...
THERAPIST: I'm glad you came to a decision that felt good for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. No I mean it brought a little ... it brought a lot of relief, I mean. I'm excited to have a home, not two homes. But I really do like my roommate so. But yeah, so I think that's the ... yeah I think I need to take a chill pill about it and especially weight. I mean a lot of the weight thing started when I like hear my sister, she's six feet and hundred and twenty-three pounds which that would probably be like if I were like 110 and a 105 and you know just her being so thin, there is a bit of like competition with it or like, "Oh she must think I'm fat." Or you know she's like, "Why does she keep on losing weight?" I mean because she was emotionally disturbed and she has issues with that. She's gotten better at it, you know and I had to tell her to eat and be healthy. But you know in the same sense it's still like ... you know it's really hard and I know with my mom, my sister, and I we all watch each other's weights closely.
THERAPIST: And it's hard not to enter into that competition than to stand back from it and to remind yourself that that's not actually a competition that you want to be in.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because that's not a healthy one for you. But when it's there and you're so close to them it's hard not to get sucked into feeling like this a competition that you should be in and want to win.
(00:35:05)
CLIENT: Yeah. No I agree. I agree and that's why I ...
THERAPIST: It doesn't make you feel better.
CLIENT: No it doesn't and I mean that's why Jeremy's really supportive and just like making sure that, you know ... I don't often eat healthy stuff and like he'll pack lunches for me, which is really nice because they're like really healthy and have all the essential nutrients and a lot of them are Vegan, which I really don't care because it's a free lunch, it's tasty. (laugh)
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: Yeah and you know I guess I didn't realize that I just ... I have just been on really on edge.
THERAPIST: You know that's why it's important to be able to come in and sometimes being able ... for me to hear from an outside perspective and put the pieces together. That's much harder to do when you're not ... when you don't have a space to look at, at all and lay it all out.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I really enjoy coming over. I really look forward to therapy. So it's really nice to come and have you comment because you're really good at helping put the pieces together.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laugh) Really do appreciate you and as soon as the next year comes along and I will be visiting you every week. (laugh)
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: For a while.
THERAPIST: Get back on a regular schedule.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well speaking of schedules let's look ahead and see when you can come in next.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: 145 because you get twenty bucks for the project. A little bit of a break.
CLIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
