<font size="4"><b>The Fourteenth Day</b></font>

The young doctor who admitted me to the hospital came up
to D-3 to invite me to dinner. I felt much better, but he
agreed that it would be unwise to go out so soon. "We'll give
you another chance," he said.


Frank's wife called and spent several hours with him. She
brought candy and fruit, and Frank insisted that I have some
chocolate-covered cherries. After his wife left, Frank mumbled
something that I could not understand. I got paper and
a pen and he wrote in a shaky hand: "Don't feel well. Will
you look in on me?"


I said that I would stay with him. He lay with his eyes
closed, his fingers kneading the bedspread. Suddenly he began
to shake; his teeth chattered and foam formed on his
mouth.


Miss Brown was off duty and there was no nurse on D-3.
I called Goodman, and he summoned a nurse from D-2.
They gave Frank a hypodermic, but he continued to shake. In
an hour they gave him another, after telephoning the doctor.


I thought Frank was dying; there was a rattling in his
throat, but they said that was from the seizure. I think Frank
thought he was dying, too, and he fought against it. It gave

[p. <i>104</i>]

I sat with him for two hours, and slowly the seizure passed.
At times he clung to my arm and his eyes pleaded for help.
When he was quiet again he smiled his thanks and went to
sleep.


In the Day Room there was considerable excitement. The
Financier, obtaining permission to go early to the canteen,
had taken off. "Picked a good day for it," said Len. "The
snow's all gone; it's just like spring."


Len said that The Financier probably would try to hitchhike
to Detroit. "He'll hide out for a couple of days; then
the police will pick him up and back he'll come. You watch;
Red'll try it in a couple of days, too."


The new patient, Pickerel, a middle-aged man with a
bald head and a big belly, asked for a cigarette. "I'm a German
Jew," he said, "but I got winning ways. All the nurses
are crazy about me." He pointed at Crispy. "She's so crazy
about me she wants me to marry her, but I can't. I got a
wife; she's an old bag, but she's crazy about me, too." He
patted his belly. "We raise rabbits. Make a lot of money off
'em. But that old bag, she won't send me any of the money.
That's why I got to borrow cigarettes. Maybe I'll get a
letter today with some dough."


He waltzed away to Crispy, but she would not dance
with him. Unperturbed, he danced with himself, humming
a little tune. When he tired of that he lay on his back
and kicked his feet in the air.


"He won't be here long," Len said. "Sure is cuckoo."


Len introduced me to Red's uncle, Larry, a little man
with thin gray hair and a sweet face. He walked with tottering
steps and seemed unable to control his facial muscles.
He wrote on his pad: "Did you like Red?" I said I had liked

[p. <i>105</i>]

Larry wrote many letters to relatives and, in a few days,
was receiving more mail than anyone else on D-3. He enjoyed
his letters, spent hours re-reading them, and always
carried them with him. He liked candy bars and Cokes, too;
not being a smoker, his two dollars went a long way. His
wife often sent him candy; she wrote at least once a week
brief, formal letters signed "Your Wife." Larry liked to
show them to Len and me; he viewed them as love letters. Yet
once he was back home, she did something to him that sent
him groping back to his infancy. Len and I couldn't figure
it out; for that matter, neither could the doctors.


Larry was religious, read the Bible each day and copied
verses from it which he gave to any patient who would accept
them. He offered one to Pickerel, but the buffoon spurned it,
saying, "I know the Bible by heart; I don't need no verses.
I'm a Catholic."


Len said, "Thought you were a German Jew."


"German Jew, Catholiceverything."


The doctor dropped by in the afternoon with another
book, Karen Horney's <i>Neurosis and Human Growth</i>. It was
rather hard going for a layman, but I became interested in
using Dr. Horney's theories to analyze myself and some
of the other patients. There was one sentence that hit most
of us, I thought: "Those who are proud of their unselfishness
may not be openly demanding but will impose upon
others through their helplessness and suffering."


I showed this to Len. "You'll <i>really</i> go crazy reading all
those books." He was reading a paper-back titled <i>Kiss and
Kill</i>. "That's the kind of stuff," he said. "You can read it
and not think about your troubles."


Art Ammidon beckoned to me from the doorway. "Will

[p. <i>106</i>]

We went into the Treatment Room. The doctor had a long
red tube with a rubber funnel at one end. On a table was a
pitcher of eggnog.


"Spiked?" I said.


No one smiled. Everyone, I learned later, makes the same
remark in an effort to ease the tension. Franklin, sitting in a
chair, struggled as Art and I entered, but Art quickly grabbed
his head and held it tilted back. "Hold Franklin's hands," the
doctor ordered. Franklin pushed me off, but I was able to keep
his hands down and away from the tube which the doctor inserted
into one nostril. Franklin groaned and blubbered.


The doctor stood on a chair and poured the eggnog into
the funnel. "This isn't orthodox," he said, "but it works."


"He can't even taste it," Art explained. "It shoots right
into his stomach."


Franklin ceased to struggle. The strange part was that in
the few minutes it took to empty the pitcher the color came
into his face and he seemed to relax. When the doctor pulled
out the tube, Franklin sighed. "That's terrible!" he said.
"That's awful!"


"Another one tomorrow if you don't eat," the doctor said
cheerfully.


"Now I know you're an inspector," Franklin said reproachfully
to me.


"He's not," the doctor said. "He had to help us because
you're such a baby."


"Feel better?" I asked. "You certainly look better."


To our surprise Franklin said, "Guess I do feel better!"
Even more surprising, he listened to Crispy's urging and
played the piano for five minutes. Played it well, too, while

[p. <i>107</i>]

They brought in a new patient after supper, a youth of
seventeen with an unruly shock of hair whose first name was
Teddy, but we couldn't understand him when he spoke his
last name. "Write it out," said Len, who had taken a fancy
to the boy.


Teddy hung his head. "Can't write. Can't read, neither."


"That's tough," said Len. "Maybe Larry here could teach
you."


Larry nodded eagerly, got out his pad and pencil and took
Teddy over to the big table near the piano. The first lesson
lasted nearly an hour, and Teddy's face was wreathed in
smiles when he returned. "Oughta get it in a coupla days,"
he boasted.


Teddy had spent most of his seventeen years in juvenile
homes. His father disappeared when he was an infant, and his
mother apparently couldn't be bothered with him. He liked
the last juvenile home because there was considerable farm
work to be done.


Len said bluntly, "Why'd they send you up here then?"


"Dunno," said the boy.


"Get into some kind of trouble?"


"No ... well, I did sass the superintendent's wife, the
old bitch!"


"We don't cuss up here," said Len, whose every other
word was a curse. He had really taken to Teddy, who followed
him everywhere.


Teddy arrived with chewing tobacco, two cigars, and a
pack of cigarettes. He said he took up chewing when he was

[p. <i>108</i>]

"All right," Len said mildly, "we know you're a he-man!"


But Teddy was not to be put off. "And I can hump a girl,
too! I ain't never been in love, though. That must be kinda
different!"


"I wouldn't know," Len said stonily.


"I'd sure like to try it."


"Maybe you'll meet the girl of your dreams at the dance
if they let you go. You got to behave yourself, or no
dance."


"Len will fix you up," I said bitterly. "He certainly fixed
me!"


I must have been phychic, for Art beckoned to me again.
"Visitors," he said briefly, but he seemed to be grinning to
himself. At the entrance to the neutral space stood a pretty
attendant from C-3, andCrispy had been correctwith
her was Lena, looking just as she had at the dance.


"Lena has a letter for you," the attendant said, and <i>she</i>
was grinning.


"Darling!" breathed Lena into my ear. I gulped. Boy
Blue, passing on his shoeless rounds, paused to stare, the first
time he had evinced interest in me. I heard Len and Art
laughing down the hall.


"I told them you were kind of a relative," Lena whispered,
"so they let me come in for a minute with the attendant.
Here's a letter for you, darling. You'll write me, too, won't
you?"


"Oh, sure," I said, feeling like a fool.


"Come on now, Lena," the attendant called. "Say goodbye
to your relative!" She giggled. Of course they all knew that
I was no relative, but they had sidestepped the rules to have a

[p. <i>109</i>]

"My," said the attendant, "aren't we in a state!"


The letter was eight pages. It began: "My darling precious,"
and glowed with Lena's assumption that we were to
elope to New York. She said that she might have some difficulty
getting off C-3 "for they're watching me pretty hard,"
but she would manage it somehow. Then she went on: "I will
now tell you my life history." Her husband was a minister,
she wrote, and they had two children, but she couldn't live
with her husband because "he isn't a good minister. I can
preach circles around him."


Before coming to the hospital "for a rest" she had been
with the FBI; then she had gone to France and joined "the
French FBI." In her spare time she wrote poetry and detective
novels. And would I please send her a pack of cigarettes
when I wrote?


"Steer clear of her for a few days and she'll forget all
about you," advised Art, seeing my face. "She'd rather
write about herself than eat."


"I felt sorry for her at the dance. Still do. But Lena is
on the ardent side!"


"Doubt if they'll let her go to the next dance," Art said.
"They usually keep her in when she gets worked up."


Len, of course, was delighted and kept rubbing it in until
bedtime.

