*TEXT-PV010012  Tuesday 8 October 1968    5507 5333   39  135
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (2-minute silence) It's funny, while I was waiting outside today, I felt extremely nervous.  Increasingly nervous and something that just occurred to me was that before I came, I had, I hadn't thought much about coming today and then I suddenly realized that I didn't have anything in my mind ahead that I wanted to talk about and so then already I'd almost made up my mind that I'd have an awful time today thinking of anything.  And that this must have been why I was getting so nervous while I was waiting.  And it has been the days when I have had things in my mind ahead that I've wanted to talk about that I felt most relaxed even if I didn't talk about those things.  And I suppose it's all a part of this need I have to be prepared and and use of all these crutches that I feel I have to use in order to have the confidence to go ahead and do something.  That was one of the things that used to just terrify me about teaching.  Because so often from what I've observed, some of your best teaching comes from a spontaneous situation and kind of improvising and I never felt I could do that.
ANALYST: And you feel afraid of having to be spontaneous here?
PATIENT: Not always.
ANALYST: No, but I mean —
PATIENT: I don't think yesterday I did.  Today I do.
ANALYST: Uhum.
PATIENT: But it seems to all come from how I feel before I come in.  No it's not,
Just being here.  (Pause) Sometimes, I was thinking about my feeling of being spontaneous with friends and things like that and I think if I know somebody quite well and and feel a certain kind of compatibility with them or feeling that they understand me and like me, and so forth, uhm, then after a while I do get spontaneous but I think I always have this feeling too that in being spontaneous I'll lose control of myself and again be foolish.  Or do something really gauche or again I become very conscious of feeling big feelings, of my, I'm tall and, and that I'm being every, in every way and uncoordinated and that I associate being spontaneous to kind of letting my body just do anything and that I'll break things or hit somebody and, because sometimes when I have become fairly spontaneous (chuckle) I always seem so, you know, I wind up stepping on somebody or knocking something over and, it's another reason, one of probably many that I'm afraid of being spontaneous.  And another I'm, I'm sure is just the exposure of yourself when you are —, and again, it's the same thing as loving I suppose.  You're making yourself vulnerable.  (Silence)
My thoughts keep returning to this problem of being afraid to venture an opinion because when you do and you're having any kind of a discussion with another person very often they're not going to completely agree so that in qualifying what you've said or disagreeing to a certain extend, they are in my mind making a criticism of what I've said and I can't, I can't tolerate it.  I mean I just can't, I'm not comfortable having that so then I always end of qualifying what I've said and sort of agreeing with them.  Or my fear of, if in another situation of being in discussion of expressing a view that's different from somebody else's when I can see one I hold is different.  But then when I know somebody quite well I'll go to the other extreme and do it in a very aggressive way as if they have to agree with me.  (Pause)
And I can see that some of this probably comes from my father who has never liked anybody to disagree with him and, I don't know I was feeling something I don't know exactly what it was.  But my whole family is inclined to not let a point go un—, until they, or they keep belaboring it I suppose hoping that eventually they're going to browbeat the person they're talking to into agreeing and they can't seem to leave it until they do.  (Pause)
I suppose it just all goes back to this attitude of my father.  I was trying to think what it is exactly he does, but it does seem to just, be, in at the end be, he's (clears throat) in a discussion and he can't accept that anybody might have another view and if he can't convince them to agree with him then he has to just think in his own mind, well they just don't know and they're being fools and, anyway, they're wrong.  (Pause)
And I'm wondering about (clears throat) this constant anxiety that I feel that I can't do things and, and yet my family always had confidence that I could achieve academically or at least I think they did.  Maybe they didn't but now I was just wondering, because I wasn't always happy achieving academically and although I would do it.  And I'm wondering if some of my lack of confidence came because I was achieving in a field that I didn't really feel was me.  Although I didn't know what field would be the one I wanted to achieve in.  That and, I mean it just follows that I would be worrying all the time about things and for a test I guess I'd verbalize a lot and worrying, about it, I'm not, I I never was aware of how much.  Because I'd always be just furious when somebody would say well don't be such a worrier, you're always worrying, and it just seemed to me that things were so justified in worrying, that it was just annoying that they would say that.  Just seemed to me, it, they were tossing me off and showing no understanding or sympathy or anything and just sort of trying to shut me up.  But the thing that made me wonder if they really did think I could achieve this, years after it really mattered if I knew or not, my mother used to talk about IQ's and I know once something was said so that I got the impression some doctor had made the comment that I was the most intelligent in the family and I don't know how I got this impression and maybe it's one I made up.  But I repeated this once to my mother and she kind of acted like well, she just looked at me as if, well, what are you crazy or something?  (Chuckle) And then later on she told a story unrelated to that time, she told the story about when I took an IQ test and uhm, I don't know how she got the IQ rating, but it was something like 106 and she didn't feel that was a true rating and I don't know why she felt it wasn't.  Oh, I know what happened.  Lots of times the schools in my early years would say well, a is achieving remarkably for her IQ and used to make my mother furious because she had herself given a lot of IQ tests and she knew how, uhm, can't think of the word, but just how they were indicative of only that particular moment and also your relationship with your tester as well as your ability to perform and there are just so many variables that you couldn't say it's hard and fast this.  And perhaps she didn't want to think that I only had an IQ of 108, that might have bee—, 106 that might have been it too.  And so she used to always be going in to schools and being furious that they were using that.  I wasn't consciously aware of it at the time, but she told me this years later.  I don't even remember now why she told me it when she did.  But I know when I said to her at some point, didn't the doctor say I was the most intelligent that I felt I had to have something where I was special and uhm, I really wanted her to confirm it.  Not that I would care beyond the fact that at least I had something that I was a little better than somebody else.  And and the way she just treated it, because she always had the attitude and my father, that however you felt, you treated all your children exactly the same way and you gave them at the same age the same type of things so everybody was treated ab—, absolutely fairly and so sh—, for no other reason she would have not received this comment because it meant showing some kind of favoritism in her eyes.  But beyond that I just assumed it meant that it really wasn't true at all and that probably I was the stupidest one.  And I used to be able to tell myself well, at least my younger sister is stupider than I am because she didn't achieve as well in school but then she found her own fields of interests in art and music and was obviously so much better than anything I'd ever be that I felt I'd ev—, I couldn't even feel superior to her.  (Pause)
It is funny how things to because for my—, for the girls my parents did hold achieving academically as the most important thing and for my brother when he was young my father used to feel it was very important that they be out playing sports together and things because my father had always liked them in his school days, and so then later on my brother used to be very concerned about sports and at that point he wasn't doing so well in school because he was putting more time into sports and this would upset my parents terribly but it's almost as if they trained him to feel that way earlier.  Because my father would buy all sorts of good tackling equipment and things so he could play at home, football at home, when he was little.  And he was obviously putting the stress on it and my brother happened to like it and be good at it so he did too.  And I think my father felt extremely uncomfortable with us unless he could talk about something that was safe and, sports and school things were sort of safe subjects.  (Pause)
Something that occurred to me when I was talking about this IQ thing, uhm, it must not, I don't know whether it's important or not, I keep forgetting.  All I know, it's something about my older sister (pause) because what I'm doing now I do so much.  Something occurs to me and then I want to think about it again maybe a few minutes later and I can't remember what it was and so then I fight to remember it, and I can't recall it and it just gets me in a very frustrated state.  To the point where I really feel terribly nervous and I begin to get hot and sometimes in high school this would happen, probably more to do with academic things, and that I might be studying for a test and then try to think of things that I had to do and I would start forgetting and this is I guess when I began really making lots of little lists of things that I have to do which I still do today and I really was afraid I was going mad when I was in high school because I would just get so frustrated when I couldn't think of the things.  And then the feeling that the frustration gave me, made me really afraid I might be going crazy.  Because of course, when I felt frustrated I wanted to be, to break out in some kind of physical act and destroy something or, and then I had to really control myself.  Because this is true even today when I'm feeling just angry, really angry, not just annoyed but my inclination is to do something physical and it's really kind of frightening.  And as (chuckle) my younger sister once said when you start biting your cheek then I know (chuckle) you're really mad and I get out of the way.  And it's almost as if I were biting a cheek to use that as an outlet so I wouldn't do something worse.
ANALYST: So your thoughts turned from something about your older sister that you forgot, couldn't think of —
PATIENT: Oh, I just thought of them (chuckle).
ANALYST: — To these things.  What was —
PATIENT: I wonder why I just thought of them.  Uhm, well, it was again in terms of superior and ins—, and inferior feelings and uhm, another thing my mother told me years after was that this sister of my father's who had an illegitimate child used to tell my older sister FYC that I was the favorite in the family and this was after I was born, I don't know if FNA was born yet and that she wasn't important at all and of course, FYC was right at the age of being 2 when I was born so that this would be a terribly damaging thing to be told.
ANALYST: Who told FYC that?
PATIENT: My aunt FHU, the uh, uh, sister of my father.  I don't know why she told her that except she herself was so frustrated with her own life and oh, I know another thing happened too.  She took care of FYC when FYC was born.  I know my mother had her come in, she was a nurse but my mother didn't want her to come when I was born.  And I think she was feeling angry anyway against the family.  I don't know why she said it, but uhm, anyway she did, and I'm sure this made an impression on y.  Because FYC just treated me, you know, I don't think I'm making it up how she treated me, in such a way it just didn't make sense because we didn't have that much to do with each other, we did have our own friends.
ANALYST: What was it again the aunt said?
PATIENT: That I was the favorite and that they, I don't remember —
ANALYST: But this is right after you were born, you mean.
PATIENT: I don't remember, you know, I from what my mother told me, I don't know when exactly she told her this but I think it was when I was still very little.  Because FYC was always extremely aggressive toward me and again these are all things I was told because uhm, I wouldn't remember them but my parents had two cocker spaniels and one and was a female and very gentle and she was run over and then there was a male cocker spaniel who you know, had a sort of male kind of personality, was quite boisterous and aggressive and uhm, he used to be very fond of FYC because he had come in the family right around the time she was born and he, I think had sort of a jealousy when I came along too.  And FYC used to like to get him to go after me, you know, like if I were in the carriage mother wasn't right there and she tried to get him to bite me and things like that I think.  Because I just remember once being told that my mother had to watch when FYC and the dog were around.  Oh, I know I felt hate toward her because I wouldn't have bitten her if I hadn't and I wouldn't have felt so pleased when I beat her up if I hadn't.  And I know in a way the feeling of hate I had toward her I took out on my younger sister and brother whenever I did actually involve myself with them.  It's probably one reason I didn't want to involve myself with them too much because I couldn't really take them for themselves.  And one time my brother and I were having an argument about something, I have no memory of what and I probably was saying I hated him and then I think I even said, I don't know if I actually said it or I just thought it, but anyway, I feel as if I'd said it, that I wished he were dead.  And then afterwards I was just terribly upset.  And it was one of the few times I recall going to my mother with a problem with a problem of that kind of personal nature and just being so awfully upset that I'd said that.  Because I think even then I realized that it wasn't you know, I wasn't even seeing him as an individual at all, it was just something else entirely.  And that and just the anyway, probably the reaction toward just having wished somebody be dead.
ANALYST: Do you know how old you were then?
PATIENT: No, but uhm, he must have been over 4, I think.
ANALYST: And you're —
PATIENT: So I'm, what —
ANALYST: 6 years older?
PATIENT: 6 Years old.  And that made me think that probably I hated my (chuckle) father a great deal.  But then I was thinking, I really enj—, liked it when he was home at night and if he always had these rages which obviously he didn't always have but if that's what I associated him with, then being unfair and fighting him, I don't understand why I would have liked it when he was home and not liked it when he wasn't.  Although maybe I liked it when he was home when I was younger.  Because I know when I was, oh around 6, I used to love to go down to the train and meet him when he'd come home and of course, then I'd also see all these other men that would come home too from work, and they always were great to me.  And I think, something that occurred to me, the way they treated me, I really felt as if I were somebody when they were talking to me, and joking with me.  A real individual that could do things that they would notice and feel were me in a way that I never did feel with my parents.  That feeling must have been when I was young because then later on I would just withdraw to my room and it didn't really matter if anybody was home or not.  And I would appear for the very minimum amount of time to eat dinner with them and then disappear again as fast as I could.  (Pause)
In fact, I fr—, I, from the time I was aware that I could chose what I would do with myself, I remember being very frustrated that I was following the same kind of a development as my sister.  And doing well at school and getting into some organizations which was just like my mother which I couldn't stand and I played some sports which I don't think my sister did.  But, but essentially, it was the same type of development and I was also in an honors class so I had the same teachers and they all called me FYC which used to get me very upset or simply I was FYC HRC's younger sister, one or the other.  And I just never felt I was somebody on my own.  And the only thing I think, I left the camp she used to go to and I also did and went to another camp and I, that was a very hard thing for me to do, but it made me feel very good about myself and that must be why.  Because I felt at least I'm doing something on my own.
And I (stammers) and there was an awful lot about summer camps I didn't like but somehow I just assumed I had to do them and I was really kind of envious of my younger sister who just knew she didn't like them and didn't assume she had to do them.  In fact, that was, that whole attitude of knowing when she didn't like something and doing something else that she was able to do and I never could made me very envious of her.  Because she knew she didn't like to study and take tests and that type of thing and she knew she liked art and music and although she's never going to probably really apply herself, she at least has developed it to the point where she can really enjoy it.  And that used to always make me feel very envious.  And just thinking about, she's marrying or may be married to a HSI fellow and uhm, my parents basically don't approve, although I think they like him.  If they could know him separate entirely from FNA they would like him, but they can't accept him as a son-in-law.
And uhm, I was j—, for some reason it just made me think of the fact that when I first knew MSCZ the thing that made me most sure that I couldn't marry him was that he seemed in so many ways to represent what my family stood for, and my father, and as I got to know him I realized he didn't at all.  And this is in a way one of the things that made me feel I could be happy with him.  And then one day (chuckle) somebody was talking about 3 of us girls and how FYC and I were always predictable in whom we'd marry.  My mother made this comment, but that she never knew whom FNA would bring home and this, this was repeated by FGR this friend of my mother's.  And it, it just infuriated me that they were assuming that MSCZ was just the same as everybody else and fit right into their molds and agreed with them on what they thought when he just doesn't at all.  And so I tried to say something, but I can't really say too much because it's well there's just no point in it.  But I just remember the, again frustration and fury and feeling that he's not the same, he's different, he's an individual and I'm an individual and I chose him so that makes me different, attitude.  Instead of being all lumped together in the way that my parents are inclined to.  (Pause)
And I think too this attitude of treating everybody absolutely fairly, they were so busy trying to be fair I wonder how much they did enjoy us all just as individuals.  And I know this is a problem I've had in teaching too.  I think I might have mentioned it, the feeling that I'm handling, I want to handle the group fairly and think of the group, which is a problem for the children in their first year of really formal school.  But on the other hand, I soon realized that I was loosing complete touch with the individuals and now that I, once I became aware of it, I was able to stop just thinking of the group and anyway I think I thought of the group as a sort of refuge too.  It's much easier than to be on an individual basis but I think this is what was happening to my parents too.  Because all those years when I was so horrible at home and so unpleasant it must have been clear to anybody that knew anything about how people develop that I was disturbed about something.  And I'm sure my parents knew I was disturbed but I don't think they had any idea in what way or you know, their whole remedy was just well keep working dear, a little harder, and apply yourself and just do the best you can.  (Pause)
In fact I've often wondered what they thought after that sophomore in high school when I was doing quite badly in a lot of subjects and at the time it sort of upset me but I also got a perverse pleasure out of it.  I can even remember my (chuckle) English teacher who was not a person I particularly respected or liked and she used to say to me, a, what is the matter, you know, I know you're capable of much better work than this and at the time I used just think, well how can I tell her I just don't like her and that's why I'm not doing too well.  But I think beyond that I just didn't want to anyway.  In fact the, I don't even know if I did well in anything but I know I liked and respected the Latin teacher who was a very strong individual and who would accept no nonsense from anyone and I used to be surprised at how well I could do sometimes in things like spot checks, tests and things like that when there was no way you could study for it.  And I was actually almost getting so I enjoyed it although I found the discipline of it something that I couldn't make myself go into another year.  (Pause)
And I also wonder if, if the fact that my parents never did talk to me about how I was doing that sophomore year struck me unconsciously as a sign that they didn't, they weren't aware enough of me to even really know or care.  Since I knew that they cared about academic things.  Or maybe I just enjoyed the thought that I was making them suffer but I, I just don't know how it struck me then, how I was thinking about it.  The only thing I can remember, I think it was that year, I was talking either my mother initiated the discussion or else we were talking about it, but I can't imagine we just talking about it because I didn't really talk to her about anything.  But somehow anyway the discussion came about fate, and I know that year I was very, feeling very fateful and uhm since I didn't feel I could handle anything I like to think that it was fate doing it and she made some strong statement at one, in this discussion that everybody did with himself what he wanted and that there was no such thing as fate and she was kind of mad at me.  And it did sort of jolt me out of the state of mind.  It must have been the end of the sophomore year.  Maybe it had nothing to do with how I changed the next year and what I did at school but I'm sure it must have been in the back of my mind and I must have just decided I had to do something with myself.
And anyway, I guess that sophomore year, since I wasn't achieving academically I was getting absolutely no successes in anything, because I certainly didn't feel I was socially even if I was, I wouldn't have felt it.  And maybe I just had enough of failing in everything and decided to be back to where I knew I could be successful.  Although even then I don—, I think maybe I knew I wasn't really being successful.  I had to work too hard, at, and I just had to keep myself at it too much out of lack of confidence to feel honestly that I was being successful there too.  And I can remember being very distressed if we were talking in English class about a book when somebody would come up with an idea that I hadn't thought of because I just felt I had, in order to be doing the job I should be thinking of everything.  And that nobody should think anything that I hadn't thought of.
And in particular I remember one incident where I felt this when we were reading "Ethan Frome" and uhm, I had loved the book when I read it and probably felt very simpatico with the situation and uhm some girl spoke about the imagery with the cat and the symbol, symbolic use of the cat and the rocking chair and so forth and I just missed it completely and I just felt awful plus I had always thought I was more intelligent than she was.  And so the fact that she could see this really jolted me and this was another time when I began to wonder if I could do anything.  (Pause; chuckle)
Every time my stomach rumbles I think of a situation when a friend of mine went to a conference that had something to do with quakers and they were having a quaker meeting and in the middle of it when everybody was being very quiet (chuckle) her stomach started to go and he tried different positions to get it stop and it just got worse (chuckle) and worse and worse.  And every time mine starts I always think of that.  (Pause)
ANALYST: You didn't mention my stomach rumbling.
PATIENT: No, (chuckle) but I noticed that first.
ANALYST: But you didn't mention it.
PATIENT: No.
ANALYST: Do you have any idea why you didn't?
PATIENT: Well, again, it just seems so personal.
ANALYST: In what way?
PATIENT: I don't know.  It just, it's one of those things you just don't talk about.  (Pause) It's sort of, anything about the person you just don't talk about.  (Pause) I was just thinking the you know, slogan of, even your best friend won't tell you, about bad breath and the fact that that's somehow I equate them as just something that is so horrible to be telling a person, you just don't tell them.  And even though in telling them, well, they can do something, I can't even tell MSCZ sometimes.
ANALYST: So you think of it as telling me something hostile?
PATIENT: Yes.
ANALYST: Not just personal but also hostile.
PATIENT: I suppose that's it.  Anything is say—, well, I was going to say, anything I say that, I say is personal, I must attach a feeling that somehow I'm being hostile if I say it.  I don't know if that's really true.  But I do think it's somewhat true because somehow I have this idea I'm criticizing.
ANALYST: Did you feel critical when you heard my stomach rumble?
PATIENT: (Pause) Only if I find it's diverting me from what I'm thinking about or you know, if I'm not thinking about anything but trying to and then I, all I think about is that, then I feel frustrated and then hostile or critical.  Maybe I even think that you should be able to make it stop.  I don't know.  Because that kind of reflects the attitude I have that I feel I should, should be able to control myself and my body in every single way and make it do things that I want.  Or that somehow it's my fault if I'm not.  So that would mean it was somebody else's fault if he's not.  Yours if you're not.  (Pause)
But then on the other hand, that I can't be entirely that either, because I've always been somewhat of a hypochondriac and every time I read about a new disease then I'm sure I have the symptoms and anyway, any aches and pains immediately I'm sure I have something horrible and serious and I almost enjoy going from thinking I have something serious to fantasizing how I'll feel as I'm dying and again it's a whole thing about being obsessed with thinking about the last minutes before somebody dies.  And the probably thinking too, about of how people, well, feel when I'm dead or when they know I'm dying.  And I'm sure that when I entertained any thoughts of suicide it was partially just to enjoy the thought of how it would make my parents feel and how then they'd know they'd been wrong and done something wrong and maybe they'd feel guilty.  (Pause)
But it's also, going back to making what I call personal remarks, I was just thinking that I find it hard if somebody asks me if I like something they have on, I find it very hard to say no.  Again, it's all part of disagreeing with their opinion or their taste as if I'm criticizing them.  And if I make a comment, sort of a general comment about something, and it turns out, for instance if I make some comment about some shoes and then I notice that somebody has them on and heard my comment then I feel extremely guilty and sometimes that I have to go up and make some kind of qualifying comment like, well, I don't mean yours, or something that you know, that thinking that I must have made them feel so upset because I guess I think it would make me feel upset.
ANALYST: And you're afraid if you mention my stomach rumbles that will make me upset?
PATIENT: Yes, I guess so.  Aside from feeling so embarrassed I can't say it.
ANALYST: Our time's up.
