TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: What's going on?
CLIENT: Just this test. I don't know if I told you I have (inaudible at 00:00:04) -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT:  - and two weeks from now, a week from Friday on the 20th. And I'm just, I don't know what it is, like I have no motivation to study. I just keep putting it off, putting it off and I don't know, I'm just, I don't know if it's my fear that's making me not study or what just because I know how important this test is and what this test means. I don't know if, I just don't know what to do. I'm kind of in the crossroads of you know, what all I have to do.
And I mean I know I need to study, I know it's important, it's crucial that I study. But I just keep saying, "Well, I've got another week. You know I've got, you know, 12 days, I've got this many days." You know but then again before I just keep telling myself that even if it's an hour a day it's still studying. It's still something. It's better than nothing. So I guess my hard part right now is to find the motivation to study, you know, when I know I need to study. (Sneezed). Excuse me. So that's what's going on. I mean it's funny because I'm not losing sleep at all. But in the back of my mind I know this needs to get done. And I'm just not doing it. And I just don't know why. It is frustrating. You know I went and got all materials, I have all my materials to study. It's just sitting down and doing it. I did it for like an hour and a half last week and that was it. And then I, this weekend I didn't really do much when I said I was. And then here I am on Monday with 12, roughly 11 days before the test.
So my goal is to study from now until the day of the test. But my motivation is different. Because I've just got so much other stuff going on. And I just don't, I don't know why I'm not making it a priority. I mean it's there. I mean I have it in my phone to remind me every night to study. And I just ignore it. And I just, I don't know why.
THERAPIST: I was going to say at what point, like do you get up to okay now it's time to study. It's 2:00.
CLIENT: I do.
THERAPIST: And you still do like a, how close do you get to starting?
CLIENT: How close? I keep pushing it off. Like yesterday you know, I was off. I was like "Alright. At 3:00 I'm going to do it." Well at 2:00 I fell asleep and didn't wake up until 5:00. So and then I woke up at 5:00 and I was like, "Alright. I should do some before I go to practice at 7:00." Well the next thing you know it's 6:30 and I have to leave for practice and I didn't do anything. And I'm like, "Alright. When I get out of practice I'll read for an hour." And then I get home and I eat dinner and I'm just like, I watch TV and I was asleep by 9:30. So like there's a whole day that's just gone that I said I was going to do it three different times and I didn't which, you know, is frustrating.
But then again I don't want to put too much pressure on myself because I know the last time I did that I just completely bombed the test. When I really stressed about it I wasn't retaining the information because I was getting all anxious and excited about the test and then I do the practice stuff and not get it and then just get really irritated with myself.
So in that point I don't want to rush into it but at what point do I start getting into survival mode and to get in play, studying with a little more urgency like, "Okay. It's coming up. You can't push it off anymore. You've pushed it off for a couple of months when you first signed up for it." So that's what I'm going through. You know right now it's just, you know, what do I do? Why am I just not focusing on it? I mean I am loose enough where I'm comfortable with the test. I have taken it three times before. But I only prepared for one of them. You know two I took (inaudible at 00:04:30) I only failed by ten points. But when I prepared for it I failed by four points.
You know I'm fairly confident in my ability like if I study and sit down and do the work I can pass the exam, no problem. But the problem is sitting down and pushing myself to actually sit down and get my focus and do the work. That's the tough part that I'm having trouble with. Because you know, then again I'm reading these studies where you don't want to study too early before the test because then you'll forget all the material. But you don't want to study too late because you won't know enough material. So right there I'm back and forth. I'm like, "Okay, well I need to do something."
THERAPIST: Eleven days is probably not too early.
CLIENT: No I agree.
THERAPIST: I feel (inaudible at 00:05:16). I know you know that. I was thinking (inaudible).
CLIENT: No I agree. I agree with that. You know especially since I've had a lot of time to do it. And I did my research. I got my books from the library and I just kind of sit down and read them. I started reading them but I've got to read them and I've got to write down my notes and do what I need to do to prepare myself for the test.
I know that my ability, once I just sit down and do it, I'll be fine. But I guess it was kind of like you know, the semester of school where it's just, I don't know if I'm still emotionally, mentally drained from all the schooling that I had this last semester. But then again knowing that school's almost over but it's not unless I pass this test.
So I'm still up in the air of what I need to do. I know what I need to do but I just, I don't know why my motivation is just down. I'm just, I don't know. I guess it's I don't know if it's because I'm sick, because I'm tired, because I'm just agitated a little bit maybe because I've been at my internship and getting up and going to school every day. And you know the fact that you know, you don't get a paycheck kind of loses my motivation a little bit for what I'm doing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you've mentioned that a number of times.
CLIENT: Yeah and I mean it just gets frustrating. Because I know what I'm doing, it's all good for down the road. But it does get a little depressing you know, getting up every day. I'm like, "You know, technically, I don't have to do this." But in a way I have to do it. You know so it kind of, it's kind of tough (inaudible at 00:06:59). I mean there are some weeks where I'm like super excited to go to work, you know to go to school and work for my students. And then there's other times where I'm, I'm just like, "I don't feel like going today." You know I just have no motivation. I don't want to go. But I go anyway because I don't want to lose the relationships that I've gained and not being someone who's in the long term going to need a job and maybe need a reference.
I don't want to set a bad example as someone who just comes in and does his job (PROFANITY at 07:32:08). Even though it is difficult, you know motivating myself. Like I won't, I won't say no to any task that's given to me. I mean motivating myself to do it, yeah, I mean and do I forget a lot? Yeah because it's because I've got other stuff going on. But I mean it's, it is difficult just managing my time with school at my internship, you know with stuff I've got going on in my personal life it's just, you know, it's just chaotic.
And I'm just, you know, I don't know what it is. I don't know if I'm just mentally drained or what. I mean the last couple of weeks I've just felt really tired, you know, not really motivated to do much. And I just, I don't know why. I don't know if it's because I've been sick three times this year already or if it's other stuff going on. I don't know what it is. I've just felt overly tired, especially this last week and a half. I don't know what it is.
THERAPIST: Well there must be, I mean, there must be some transition for "I should study" to "I'm not going to study." Like there has to be some reasoning that goes between that, those -
(CROSSTALK)
CLIENT: It's procrastination.
THERAPIST: And what do you think when you procrastinate?
CLIENT: I just say I'm going to do it at this time and then that time comes and then I put it off, I say "Oh no, I'll do it the next time." Or like last week I was doing something, I was studying. And then my girlfriend called me because she had a problem. And then I was on the phone with her for an hour just helping her out with her problem and listening and doing all that stuff. So I guess kind of that like made me lose my motivation to keep going when I was in that groove.
And then one day last week I was about to start something and my mother asked me to do something when I was going to study. And then all of a sudden the next thing, that took like an hour or so and then I'm just like, "Okay. Now what do I do." I mean it's also tough, too, with my soccer schedule because my practice has changed. I mean last week we had three practices at 9:00 at night where I'm doing everything all day I'm like, "Oh, I'll study during the day and do this." Well I did it one day out of the week. I studied Thursday. I studied you know, I said at 3:00 I'm going to study. At 3:00 I studied and then I got a phone call at 4:30.
And then on Friday I went and did my errands in the morning and then I said I was going to study at 3:00 again. And then the next thing you know something happened and 3:00 came and went and I didn't do nothing. So I don't know. I just, I'm just easily I guess, I don't know if I'm easily distracted but I'm easily like I just put it on the back burner where I know what I have to do.
And that's the funny part because I know what I have to do but I just, you know, I can't stop messing around anymore. I can't. And the thing is like I don't know what it is. I don't know, I'm not scared to take the test. I'm not afraid of the test. I'm not afraid of the preparation for the test. I'm just, I just have no motivation to prepare for the test which is, you know, frustrating because I've never been like that. I've always been a self-motivating person. I've always jumped right into things like if I know I want to succeed or something I'll give it 110 percent.
And for some reason I'm just down like, not really depressed but just down. I don't have, you know, a lot of motivation to do a lot of things and it's just been recently. I don't know why. I don't know if it's the change in weather, it's the (inaudible at 00:11:19) stuff. Maybe it's because our soccer team is not doing so well–I have no idea. It's frustrating. I mean after Christmas my anxiety just went, well I don't even know if it was (inaudible at 00:11:38) because I just–you know, but I had a motivation level. I was excited to do things. And now I'm just like whatever.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like you go back and forth between feeling like attributing it to something going on inside, but then also the things going on outside like other responsibilities, not feeling well. But it seems like you go back and forth between those two explanations.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Yeah, I mean, and I don't know which one has the most of it. I just, I don't know. (Chuckle) It's just something that I, I mean I get like this once in awhile but usually I can overcome things fast. And maybe it's just because, I don't know. I just don't have any answer to that. I mean I know last week was the first week that we went back after the school vacation. And that Monday night I didn't sleep a wink. I was up all night. I don't know what it was. Maybe it was the anxiousness to go back to school knowing that vacation was over and then I had to get back to reality a little bit. I don't know what it was.
And then I talked to other people and they said the same thing that Monday night they didn't get sleep because I don't know. Maybe it was the anxiety, maybe it was the (inaudible at 00:12:50). I have no idea. I mean it's tough, I don't know. Usually I don't take naps but more often now I've been taking naps because I'm tired. And I don't know if it's because my schedule is messed up or because you know, I'm only in school Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and I have Thursday and Friday off. So I usually have longer weekends where I guess I'm staying up later Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday as opposed to Sunday, Monday and Tuesday when I'm going to bed at like 9:30, 10:00
I don't know if my sleeping pattern's messing me up or what. Because I just don't seem to be like I can get a routine. But when I was going to school five days a week doing my practicum as well when I was in school Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday you know I was in a routine. I had something to do. So I think, I don't know. Maybe I'm kind of depressed that I'm not doing my practicum anymore either because I'm only in school three days as opposed to five days. Maybe that has a little bit to do with it because I do miss working with my students, you know. I don't know. It's just, it is, I don't know. It's just something I've been feeling the last couple of days and it's just, it's really been tough for me. And I'd just sort of like an explanation why.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like on the one hand you really want to go to the next stage of your life and take on more responsibility and on the other hand when I listen to you it seems like you feel bogged down by responsibility.
CLIENT: I do. I do. Believe me responsibility is scary. To me it's very tough. I mean I know what I am responsible for. I know what I have to be responsible for. But then again like I've been saying, I feel like I'm there and then I get pulled back. And I don't know what it is. I don't know why I get pulled back. I don't know why those thoughts, I don't know why I feel like that. I just don't know. I don't know. I do want to be on my own. But I feel like I'm pulled back because I (inaudible at 00:14:59) have a full-time job which is very frustrating to me just because I feel like I said before in just my feeling is that I feel like I can't provide for my family if I were to have one someday.
And it's just, I think that bothers me knowing what I need to do to support a family and to support myself and my girlfriend, but not being able to do it right now I think really bothers me. And I have said this before and it's just, it's really frustrating because I do say this and it gets brought up. It's like people are like, well are you working? I'm like yeah, but I'm not. I go I get up every morning, go to school at 7:00 a.m., you know, get out at 2:30, 3:00 every day. But I do it for nothing. I go after awhile it gets frustrating, especially since I've been doing it since September. It's really, it really starts to get to me a little bit knowing the fact that I'm putting in all this time and effort. Yes, it's good for my education. But for me mentally right now, am I really helping myself out right now. And I don't know if I am. And that's frustrating to me.
THERAPIST: It's not a requirement what you're doing?
CLIENT: Oh it is required. It is required and I know it. I know it's for my education. I know it's to help me out. But me getting up and being established in this routine? Because I know next year I'm not going to be at the School of Med. I may not even be in a school next year as a guidance counselor. I may be doing something else. I guess just maybe the thought of me not having a job is really scary too, because of the field that I'm in and just talking with people and just knowing that you know Guidance is a very competitive field and once the people are in they don't move.
So I mean that's worrisome to me a little bit. But I do know that I need to finish my education. I do know that I need to pass this test to get my education. And I just, I don't know. It's just frustrating, it's frustrating to me but it's not really–I think it bothers me in bits and pieces. Not all at once. Like I don't get any racing of the heart or anything like that. I don't lose a lot of sleep over it. But I do understand the circumstances which is, I guess it's different, I don't know. Because normally I'd just be very anxious. My heart would be racing. I'd have panic attacks. I couldn't breathe. I'd just be very anxious and just not be able to sleep.
But now I just feel like I don't know. I just feel, I feel normal but I kind of feel down. I mean I don't know if, I don't think I'm depressed. But I just feel like a lack of motivation more often, more so than not. And I just, I don't know what it is. Just this last week I'm just, I feel terrible like just motivation-wise. You know I didn't go to the gym at all. I didn't do anything with what I normally do. And I'm a person where if I don't go to the gym for at least four to five days a week I feel really bad about myself. And that's what's tough for me. You know I mean part of it is I was resting because I was getting over another cold. But the other part is just I didn't feel like going. (Chuckling). I was like "It's okay. I'm only going to miss a week or whatever." Then after that week now I've got to get back to going to the gym and doing what I want to do and now I'm just like I don't want to do it. And it hasn't even come to that yet.
So I mean to me that's very frustrating because I am someone who's always go, gone, going and now all of a sudden I'm putting the brakes on things and not doing anything It's just, it's like a foreign language to me because I don't, I don't know why I'm doing it. I don't know what it's for. Yet, you know, what I'm doing it's just, I don't know. I kind of feel lost because I'm not used to it. I'm used to my life being 100 miles an hour. And now I guess I've kind of taken and pumped the brakes a little bit and slowed it down and I guess it's part of me maybe processing information more. It just actually understanding it instead of going 100 miles an hour towards things and doing all my reactionary thinking and reacting to everything that's full ahead of me. I don't know. I wish I had an answer but I don't.
It's just, to me it's again, it's like foreign language me. It's something new but I kind of feel that you know, positive in a way. I mean I even started coaching with my kids this weekend. Usually I'm hot-headed and very out of control and this week I was very controlling, dealing with my emotions. That's me for the most part. But I was very calm and collected and just did things normally without yelling, without screaming at the kids. I mean I do it by myself after the game but other than that I was just, I don't know what it was. It was just like yesterday in practice. Like I didn't want to be there but when I was there and got going I was fine, but I wasn't yelling and screaming at the kids.
THERAPIST: Yeah, do you, so do you feel like you're often hot-headed?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I have a real bad temper when it comes out. I mean I don't, yeah, I don't know if I mentioned but I thought I could control my temper kind of like my dad usually does but I can't. I usually got my mom and my older brother's temper where like I said (inaudible at 00:21:24) and I just (finger snaps) like that I snap. And then I snap until the rage and all that. But I haven't really felt any rage (Chuckles), you know, which maybe it's a good thing. It's a real good thing that nothing's triggered me to just get enraged and black out and just do the things that I did in the past. Maybe this is a sign of me controlling that, controlling maybe my anxiety and my anger towards things and just letting things go past. I have no idea.
I mean my girlfriend and I had a conversation last week after everything happened at work about how one of her clients yelled at her and she was crying on the phone to me and told me she (inaudible at 00:22:18) blah blah blah. And I didn't snap at her about her company. No I let her talk and I let her do things and then I finally told her, I go, "Listen. Whatever you want to do I'll support you in." I go, "I understand that I hate your company and you know I'm very biased towards them." I go, "But I'm going to get over that." I go, "What I'm going to do is I'm going to help you, support you and be your shoulder to lean on." I go, "But I am going to give you some advice." And I go, "Enough is enough."
I go, "You keep telling me is it really worth working for the paycheck even though it's a significant amount?" I go, "Ultimately you've got to be happy." You know and she finally realized that she's just like you know, because she was very hard on herself and she is a perfectionist and wants to do good. And I go, "Listen. Just because one person is a moron doesn't mean you're not doing your job to the fullest." I go, "That's not the case at all. That's not even thought, that's not even the truth." I go, "You are very hardworking."
But she's also a very emotional person and if people attack her like that she takes it personal and doesn't realize it's just business. So I think she's finally understanding and you know when I stayed over there last night, and I asked her what she was doing. She said looking for jobs. Kind of like perked up a little bit but I didn't say nothing. I just let it go. And you know, we just started a conversation and she was talking like, "You know what? I don't know if, I definitely know I'm not going to be in this industry forever but I'm definitely going to start looking because I can't take this abuse much longer" about being the way she's treated by the people that she works with. And I said, "That's fine."
I go, and this is the hardest part, this was the hardest part to me was I didn't say nothing to anybody. You know I mean I don't say nothing to anyone and I just try to let her have her moments and just talk to me and just go there. I don't tell her how much I hate the company and how much I want it to fail and more even though I still feel that. But I just tell her. I go, "You've got to do what's best for you." I go, "Is it really worth you putting in all this time, all this effort to get yelled at every day."
And I just broke it down to her in those simple terms because I know how the industry works. I go, "For every mistake that gets made who gets blamed?" And she said, "Me". And I go, "Yeah, because you're the problem solver. Everything that all these people that don't know how to do their jobs are just making up in their jobs, you have to be the one that takes their fault. They don't get faulted for anything. You're the one who gets yelled at by the client. Because everything internal that happens in turn inside the company that's someone else's fault? They don't have to write the bad news to the client. You do. And what happens? The client gets (PROFANITY at 25:19) and they yell at you.
You know I mean it sounds messed up but that's like her day-to-day life. And I'm like, you know something, I don't know how you do it. I don't know how you just take it. Because once she told me what that man said to her, I would have told him to go (PROFANITY at 00:25:36) himself. I really would have. Excuse my language. But I would have, I really would have. I would have told him to go, "You know what? Take your business somewhere else and good luck", you know, explain to your client why he left because you had to be a know-it-all. And I'd be like "You know what? If you have any further questions..." this is another guy and I'd be like you know something? I wouldn't even talk to him. I'd direct all questions he had. I'd be like, "I can't work with you. You've very rude, disrespectful. I'd go "Direct all your questions to my boss or to this other boss." And I would tell
(audio ends abruptly)
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
