TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
CLIENT: It's getting cold.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Abnormally cold. [Sigh]. [inaudible 0:02:09]. [Interposing]. Am I that late? Wait, what time was I supposed to be here?
THERAPIST: Seven-thirty.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: What were you thinking?
CLIENT: At first, I thought 7:15 and then, I thought oh my–how did I–
THERAPIST: No, because we were meeting at 7:15 a couple times, right? [Interposing] and it's like a minute fast.
CLIENT: Okay. I walk because we don't have a car, so I can generally tell about how long it's going to take me to get anywhere, but [inaudible 0:02:43]. Anyway, so hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: Um, I'm always sort of [inaudible 0:02:50] to start it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: [Interposing] I don't know what to start talking about.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: Chris's been out of town this week again. He's been going for interviews all over the–mostly to California, but he's gone a lot. Since–from August till now, he's just–just been gone all the time. And in the fall, I was having a really hard time, I was just getting so stressed about the job stuff. Part of it, too, is the way that Chris portrays it to me. He'll tell me one thing at home about jobs, and then, we'll go out with friends and they'll be oh, and it's totally, like, it's not, you know, and he'll say–at home to me, he'll be saying if I–I should have a job by now, you know, he's the–he's fifth in his class of his entire law school. And so, he feels like I should have a job. I should have a job already.
And so, at home, he's freaking out saying like, you know, all the–all the big firm jobs are taken, and that's just not a possibility for us anymore. And you know, and we're just–we have to totally rethink our future, and we have to rethink the next few years, we have to rethink all of this. And to me, that makes me really tense. That makes me really stressed. And, um, mostly, I think because–to me, like owning a house, being like–having a ton of–those kinds of things like–my priority is babies. [Laughs]. It always has been.
And but I don't–I totally agree with him in the sense that if we aren't very secure, and that we know we can't have a family. And so, when I start to see that go, then I start to freak out. And so, that was all kind of wrapped up in one for me. But we–a few months ago, it just kind of hit a wall, and I had one night just of breakdown about it, and I just said I need a worst case scenario plan. Like, I need us to figure out what happens, if come May, you're graduating and we don't have a–you don't have a job, and our lease is up August 1st, and what are we–you know, what are we doing? What's our worst case scenario plan?
And so, we–we had–you know, our plan is to just move to California, his parents have a huge house, and we would just live there and he would take the bar in California State. And so, now that we have that, I'm actually much more–like, much–it's much easier for me. [Laughs]. And you know, if the baby thing can't happen for a couple of years because of the job, that's fine. As long as–for me, I needed the plan. I needed to know, okay, so what happens if the plan that we're working towards falls through. So then, what? For me, it's much easier to write it all in. [Laughs].
But um, aside from that, with all the traveling that he's been doing, that's been really hard because he's–you know, if we're–if we're–[inaudible 0:06:07] in October we were in kind of in a rut, not fighting–well, bickering. We were just kind of at each other. Just, you know, annoyed and, in like a bad space. And so, that would be hard and he would go because then, we'd never really get a chance to get through it. We'd have a thing happen, and then, he'd go for a few days, we'd come back and it'd still kind of be there. That taste in your mouth.
So that was really hard. And then, we–you know, we really worked through it. And last–however long it's been, I guess a month and a half, two months or whatever. Everything has been great, and we've been having so much fun, and we've been really doing the things that we'd like to do together a lot.
And just really enjoy each other and letting the things that when we're in a bad place get to us, just kind of go. And so, then that's hard [laughs] because then he goes, it's like well, don't go again. [Laughs], come on you're just–you just got home, I just want to–and so, you know, it's hard to just keep that momentum of the good going because even when he's gone, I'm not–you know, we talk during the day, but I feel like I lose a little bit of that. And it makes me sad, but he's coming back. And he had some interviews that he feels really good about, and the second interview.
And so, he's really thinking that something's going to come up pretty soon. But I just–I really am a person who needs to know what's happening. And so, I really–I'm really looking forward to hopefully him getting an offer from one of these interviews. Um, and they're all for very different things and different places. So, you know, ones–a clerkship with a judge, so that's only a year in a –in San Jose, California. One's in a firm in California. One's in a firm in Concord where my whole family is.
And, um, so, they're all very different possibilities, and, um, I really like to gear myself up for what's to come. So, I'm–but I already do things like look at apartment listings in San Jose, California. Like, I just already [laughs] go so–so overboard with it, even when it's just an interview. I have to–I have to bring it back a little bit until there are more definite things.
THERAPIST: What do you think you're so worried about?
CLIENT: Um, I'm worried about–well, a lot of me worries about going and having anxiety issues. And having, um, feeling really lonely, being alone. Um, in San Jose, especially, the place that he just interviewed, the reason he went out last-minute for this interview. We don't know anyone. And it's an hour south of California where we have a lot of support, but, um, I do–I get really scared about being alone, without friends, and without–when Chris–he's gone, when he goes to work. You know, now, he goes to school and he's gone all day. I'm gone at work all day, and then we come home, and he works all night.
And so, it's just–being by myself [chuckles] all the time. We have dinner together, so that's, you know, 20 minutes, half an hour that we get to talk and, uh, relax together. But that's usually it for me–for my day with...and I just feel really lonely. So, I worry about that. Depending on where we go, um, but moving to Massachusetts, back to Massachusetts where my family is, that's a whole new set of worries.
Um, some parts of me would be really excited about it, but mostly, I get very nervous. Just because of everything that that brings with it. Brings with it a lot of family members, and a lot of, um, a lot of drama. Even, you know, my–my dad is one thing, but my mom's side of the family isn't any better. They're all crazy [laughs]. They're not crazy, but they're just–my mom has–is one of five, and they all live in the Concord area with all of their children.
And growing up, I was really close to my cousins. Especially two girls my age, and we're the oldest. Um, and we're all within a year of each other. And we're all getting married, and we're all starting families, and we're all–and it's very competitive. And it's very behind-the-back [makes sound dd-dd-dd] like a lot of, um, one of my cousins, I was in her wedding party, and then, when I got engaged, and I said I have so many cousins because I have a lot on my dad's side. This side. I can't put cousins in my wedding party, I was kicked out of her wedding, and then, there was a whole big fallout.
And then, you know, last week, one cousin got engaged, and then, the next week, the other cousin announced she was pregnant. And it–it gets the tit-for-tat thing. And so, that–going back to that really makes me–it doesn't stress me out, but it makes me think like oh, I don't want to deal–I don't want to do that. I don't want to be–because inevitably, I'm still a part of it even here, I'm getting the call from this one, from that one. And then, I'm hearing from my mom this thing. Oh, well this aunt says this, and this aunt says this. It's like oh my gosh.
And I can't lie, I get involved in it. I mean, I'm not this little angel over here. I definitely am in there saying things that I probably shouldn't be saying. Um, I just–I'm much better at being removed–more removed from it when I'm not there.
THERAPIST: What makes you sad about that? You looked really sad when you said that.
CLIENT: Yeah. It really makes me sad. Growing up, I just thought of my family as this great family who always loved and supported each other, um, on my mom's side. Because they were the really big support. My dad's side always made me really scared. But my mom's side of the family, I always thought was really so great. And, um, really support each other, you know, she has–it's three sisters and these two brothers.
And so, I felt like that's a–you know, I loved that, and I thought that was so great. The older I'm getting, the more I'm seeing that they–they all have a lot of issues of their own, and that prevents them from really allowing themselves to be supportive of one another. And instead, what I see a lot of them doing is hurting each other.
And my cousins and I just follow the same pattern. And it's really untrusting family environment because our family's so big, it takes on more of a social dynamic than I think a lot–and so close. So, I think it takes on a very different dynamic than a lot of families. And since that–that there's so many of us, and these cliques can form, and then people go after each other.
And that just makes me really sad. It makes me sad that [sighs], you know, my cousin who's a year older than me is having her second baby, and I always thought when that happened, when we got to this place that we would be–we would all be so–so happy for one another. And so–and it doesn't feel like that. And it doesn't even feel like that for me. And even though I say oh my god, I'm so happy for her, I'm just–she's getting–you know, I still in the back of my head, well, that's a bad idea. You're not finan–and I'm still judging it, and I'm still there.
I know judgment is normal, but I would love to be genuinely happy for her, and I don't feel like that. And I think it is because of this nature of us all going at each other all the time. And feeling like–you have your guard up, having your ducks in a row because you're going to get kind of attacked.
And my mom–my mom's always saying oh, you know, everyone's just–she just makes comments about how, um, she preemptively assumes that there's backlash amongst her sisters about Chris and I because Chris is presumably going to be more well off than my cousin's husbands. And so–and they're–my family is kind of that way where they kind of get a little bit of an attitude people who–I don't know.
But my mom preemptively says things that she thinks might be said in the future about–and it's like I just don't want to wor–I don't want to worry about that. I don't want to worry about if Chris makes too much money and that bothers them. If Chris doesn't make enough money, and that bothers them. And Chris lives here, lives there, I don't want to worry about that, but inevitably do worry about it. And we inevitably–it becomes something.
THERAPIST: So, your mother is trying to sort of preempt the–saying that people are going to be envious of you.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Do you think because your mother will be envious of you?
CLIENT: Mm, I think some ways my mom is a little bit envious of my marriage with Chris. Um, but I don't know. I don't–I think that–I think my mom is a very concerned with what other people think. And that's always her–what's in the forefront of her mind.
THERAPIST: What did she do when she was married to your dad?
CLIENT: For work?
THERAPIST: No. For like, I mean, I would imagine if you were worried about what other people think, worried about–you know, worrying when you're, you know–
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: –married to someone who's so disturbed. I would think–
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: –you'd be worried.
CLIENT: I would think–we would leave a lot of family functions early. He would never–my dad was always–when we were younger, when he was in his 20s because I was–they were 20 when I was born, so they were in their 20s for most of my early childhood memories. And I think that was a little bit more acceptable to be kind of like zany and kind of kookie, and drinking a little too much.
You know, oh yeah, they have a couple kids, but he's 25–you know, like give the guy a break kind of thing. I think there was a lot of that. And then, no one knew what it was like when we were at home. I mean, my cousins and–I remember it being–I would tell all my friends at school that was my place to like go and let it–but none of my family knew.
Like, I remember being really ashamed to tell my cousins when I was finally–because they all thought my dad was great. They all thought he was so entertaining, and he was–I think he made them a little nervous because you know, as a kid, you do catch a vibe from people that puts you off a little bit and makes you, like, this guy's a little too much.
I think from my other cousins, my dad was a little bit of that. And so, I think there was a little bit of like oh, this guy's cool, he makes me a little uncomfortable, but I don't know why. Um, but when I was finally a teenager and I started to tell them some of the things that happened, they didn't really believe me. And I get that a lot. I have–I've had a lot of people question the–the–my true–what's happened in my family.
And that's something that's really hard for me. And I don't if it's because people had been in my home and seen–that–or had met my dad. I don't know what it is, but it makes me very uncomfortable to have friends meet my dad and say he's so great, what are you talking about? And it makes me very–oh, it's very unnerving to me because it makes me feel like I have to defend like horrible things that he did. And that it was really terrifying for me. [Sniffles].
But to me this–this guy, anyway, I kind of went off on a tangent. What my mom did was, pretty much, we would leave. If she saw him go–getting out of control, we would just go. And then, um, you know, inevitably, I mean, it would just be–you know, we would just go [sniffs]. And she just wore a lot of makeup.
THERAPIST: And then, what would happen?
CLIENT: He would mostly, the car rides home would be absolutely terrifying. He would–he would intentionally drive like a maniac. He liked to scare everybody. It was a control thing, I think. He would just–he would drive like a crazy person, speeding like a lunatic, and my mom would try to calmly say to him–she would try to maintain her cool and ask him to slow down or stop weaving in and out of traffic.
And, um, the more she asked, the crazier he got. And, um, and then, he'd get home and they would just fight and he would lose it. [Sniffles]. Mm, it would just be a disaster. And then, you know, and then he was–he would leave, and then, you know, when I was ten, he was gone for a year. And it was–I always think of that [chuckles] as a great time. My mom has a very different perspective on it, um, because we didn't have any money, but I always thought it was great.
And when he came back, it was terrible. And then, uh, and then, when he came back that time and he was much more into drugs, and much more–he was–the drinking was the worst it was when he lived with us. He just didn't really come around to family things. And for a little while, my mom could write that off with, you know, he's having a hard time with his dad passing, or whatever. And then eventually, just nobody asked.
You know, when he left the first time, she told my–I had an aunt and uncle who lived right across the street from us growing up. And so, when he left, I guess, the second time when I was ten, she told my aunt that he had been hitting her. And I think they all kind of kn–suspected it, but I don't think anybody said anything.
Um, and so, they knew when he came back, and I think that everyone probably knew, but they just didn't say anything. But...but I do remember that once he finally left, when I was 15, my aunt–my mom's sister and my cousin, the one who's now pregnant with two kids. They were over and my dad called and my dad used to call when he first left, and he would scream into the answering machine, these terrible, hateful things.
And we would just–my mom and my brothers and I would just–we would just ignore it. We'd walk right in the house like oh, him again. And for us, it was no big deal. But I remember him calling and us all seeing it on the caller ID, and knowing my aunt and my cousin were in the house, and a moment of panic that they were going to hear. And we ran to try to get to the answering machine in time, but they started to hear.
And I remember their faces being so shocked, and being a little bit–a little bit, um, you know, embarrassed about it, but also, a little bit like relieved that finally, you–that somebody else could see that it was so scary. And it felt a little bit like, I don't know why that helped validating, but it did.
I just–I hate–I hated living in this weird existence where everything was really scary, but it wasn't supposed to be. I don't know. And even when you tell people that you're scared or that [sniffs] things are going on at home are bad, and then, kind of looking at you like yeah r–even my friends now. Like, they're now wrapping their heads around, okay, these things probably really did happen. But to tell your friends when you're 14 that your dad pulled a gun on your whole family, people don't believe you. They think you're fabricating. They think you're totally full of shit.
And I guess if you don't live in a house like that, you probably do think your friend is just looking for attention. Because I was a person who did look for a lot of attention. But that was a really hard thing for me when I was that whole age.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Well, it sounds like it still happens in some forms, and when you described going for Thanksgiving, and you're saying like there's something really wrong, and your family looking at you like there's not that. That's fine.
CLIENT: Right. And that does happen. And I just–I think the problem–I think one of the problems in those instances when I'm being the one in the family to–to say like hey, hey, I think since I've gotten into the role, and since my siblings rely on me to be in the role of saying excuse me, I don't like this. We don't like this. This isn't good. Since that's my role, I take it a little too far at times, and when there is something serious, since I'm the one to do it all the time, when it is something like, I'm very concerned right now about my brother's drinking. Can we all as a family sit down and maybe think about this?
I think it's taken as another thing of like she's doing it again. She's doing this thing where she makes a thing out of things. And, um, and so, I don't know. I was talking to Chris a lot last week about–I said–you know, we had talked in here about–I feel like in my family, I'm kind of the whistleblower, the one who says like, hello? And he said–and Chris kind of agreed with me. He said yeah, I mean, you do take on that role and–and he and I were just talking through how it's not necessarily a good thing or a bad thing, and at times it's necessary, but when do I find the line. If it's the feeling for me, am I doing this because that's my identity in my family? Am I doing this because I do think that there's something wrong? Or am I doing it just to kind of–sometimes am I doing it to get under people's skin?
Do you know what I mean? And so, there's a fine line between well, what's the–what's going on here in each scenario. And I think I do need to start reexamining some of the times that I'm saying, like, hello? [Chuckles]. Um, because it doesn't make it very effective if you're the person who's constantly saying it. Constantly saying what–what she thinks is wrong. And maybe other people don't think it's wrong.
THERAPIST: Well, you're worried that it's the boy who cried wolf scenario.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: What do you feel–what do you think about like, um, and I forgot how you put it, like, say it just to say it, or–
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I'm not–yeah. It sounded like you had a thought about that, but–
CLIENT: So, um, recently, sorry. Over the last couple of years, my two brothers and I who have been talking a lot about our stepdad and just the circumstances he came to join our family. We have a lot of resentment just for that period of time. He moved in, uh, two weeks after we met him. I shared a room with his daughter. And then, him and mom were married within a year.
And my parents' divorce wasn't even final until a month before they got married. It was all very quick. And it was, um, and so, stepping back now, we're all kind of like hold on a second. And my brother, the one who's closest in age to me, moved out because they were butting heads. And, um, so we have a lot of like whoa, the 15-year-old–14-year-old son moved out, but the guy stayed? Why did that happen? Why did this–and so, because of that and because of a lot of things that we're starting to talk about, and a lot of things that we're starting to like whoa, whoa, whoa. I find myself sometimes saying things just to kind of get a jab in.
There's these terrible lights in their kitchen that they–this beautiful house that they just built, and I hate the lights. And I make a point of saying that the lights look terrible. I say it just to be an asshole. I don't like the lights, but I don't need to say it. I don't need to say it over and over and over. But I know why I'm doing it. And I know it's because it gets under his skin.
And, um, I just–I find myself doing those kinds of things sometimes.
THERAPIST: Where did they get the funding to build a nice house?
CLIENT: My stepdad owns, uh, an tax agency.
THERAPIST: I see. So, he has some money.
CLIENT: Yeah. He does. He–they own a lot of boats, and they do a lot of–they have a lot of nice cars, but my–my–just 18-year-old brother who lives with them has completely bald winter tires, he's driving around in a car that needs $3,000 worth of repairs and is unsafe to drive. If he hits a pothole, there's the chance that it could just fall to pieces. He lives in–they built him a room in the basement. It was half the size of this, concrete floor, and just plywood.
And no–no walls. And that was his bedroom. This is my 18-year–so, it's his stepson. My stepdad's–my brother. And I came home, and I–there was no heat in there [laughs], it's Massachusetts. So, I was like what do you mean this is–it's the same size as Caleb's closet. It's literally the exact same size as Caleb's closet right there. What do you mean? And I was–he was like well, you know, this is just the layout, I said you designed this house. What do you mean this is the layout? You designed it.
And so, it was changed and he has a–really nice, big room now. But there's a lot of those things like yeah, they have all this money to build this new house. And so, my mom and my youngest brother are taken care of. But, you know, it's complaining about how much my 16-year-old brother Fred eats. Complaining about oh, the grocery bill is so high because of Fred. Well, you just had a family dinner and told the whole family you made $260,000 last year. Kept bragging over and over.
So, don't in one breath complain about how much my brother eats, and then, in another breath sit at a family dinner and tell us how much money you made. And then, you know, and he doesn't help pay for his daughter's college education because he doesn't agree with the choi–like, there's just a lot of things. And it's like–
THERAPIST: Do you think–I mean, are they trying to intentionally be sadistic towards your brother?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I mean, the way you describe it, it's sadistic to have this person–to have their child be in an unheated room in the winter.
CLIENT: I know. Well, my mom is not. My mom pays his bills secretly. Caleb, my stepdad, doesn't know–does all the finances, and my mom takes–is in control of all of it. So, she'll like secretly pay for Fred to–she'll pay for his cell phone bill or pay for something that he needs, but it's all secret, like, it can't be–Caleb can't know.
And it's not–Caleb has this whole moral code. He think–you know, I did it out on my own, that's the whole thing–it's been the whole thing all along with all of us. Was, I did it on my own, I went to college, I supported myself through college, and I lived on my own and I did this, and I–but that was also, you know, 1982, and you lived at your parent's house.
You know? And so, it's all these circumstances that it's like–so, when he says it, you think like yeah, what is wrong with me? They could do it, why can't I do it? Then, you realize how much has changed, and it just isn't the same to support yourself through college anymore, and live on your own and it's just not the same. I mean, you just–I mean, you can do it, but, um, it's–he paints this scenario of like you're this kind of loser if you can't do–like what are you doing?
THERAPIST: Is your mother scared of him? Why would she do it behind his back?
CLIENT: Because she just doesn't want to deal with–she doesn't want to deal with it. It would be a fight, I think. She doesn't want to deal with it. But it just–I mean, he is living, you know, it's very unsafe for–the thing that makes me the most upset is just things that are actually unsafe, it's unsafe for him to be driving this car. You just bought another new boat. You can spare $2,000 for just him to just borrow even to fix the car, so that it's safe.
To, you know, he gets winter tires for his Christmas present, which is fine, but you know, then he sees all his other friends who get winter tires and a new car. Not that he has to be exactly like his friends, but you know, two winter tires are his Christmas present and then, he's got to pay for the other ones.
And it's things like that just like make me so sad for him. They just–like, I get really sad for my brother. But at the same time growing up, Caleb was a really good stepdad to him. Caleb was, you know, he did–he came every day, played basketball with him, you know, was really close to his friends, was really–was really a supportive consistent male figure in my brother's life. And so, in that sense, it was a really good thing. And so, he did have somebody that he could rely on, he did know every day what his life was going to look like. He did know that his stepdad would come home, he would play with him, and he would, you know, even though he has his own quirks, it's was very safe.
And so, that did–I think do a lot for my brother. So for that, I'm very grateful. But the way he's been handling things the last few years, I mean, it's just very bizarre and I just don't like it. And I mean, it just–it's just–it's stingy, and it's this desire to be very, um, showy. We've got this boat, we've got this new house, here's my hot wife, and here's this and that and the other. And you know, like look at all this I have.
They made a pact when they got married that if the other one was getting fat, they would tell each other. So, there's just those kinds of things exist in their marriage. And to me, that's like what? If I'm getting fat, Chris better just pass me the cookies and tell me like come on. Do you know what I mean? Like, no. That–that's not going to happen. I just don't like it. It makes my skin crawl a little bit.
So, um, anyway. I don't even know how I got on that tangent. But, um, yeah, so I'm going up there tomorrow for my–for my youngest brother's birthday, who is ten. And um–or he's turning ten. He's turning ten on Saturday. So, I go up tomorrow and I have to–I have to reign it in.
Caleb and I used to get along really well.
THERAPIST: What would you be reigning in?
CLIENT: My attitude. I have an attitude towards him. And everybody can tell now. I mean, my brothers and I all do. We all–we all get our digs in. We all get our–my stepdad is the classic salesman. He has the same conversation with me, my grandma, my unc–like put anybody–you could plug anybody else in or out. You know, it's the same all over.
And it makes–I just am not that way [laughs]. And so, it makes it very hard–when I–when he first came around, I thought this guy's ama–like he's so great and so nice. He's so engaging. And, um, ten years after the fact, I'm realizing no, he's a salesman. And he really sold me.
But, uh, so it makes it hard for me when he starts going on these stories, and I just get little digs in. Because I can't help it. And, um, I guess my feelings are kind of hurt because I always thought wow, maybe this is what it is. I think I always thought that like–that he really did care about me and my family, but the, um, the more time goes on, I'm just–I'm starting to realize, no, it's just about him. It's just really about him.
And, uh, and so, that I think what's been the hardest for me to kind of start to realize. So I do need to–for my mom's sake because it bothers her, and I don't want to–I don't want to make my mom upset. So...the only purpose [inaudible 0:36:29] is to make my brothers laugh or to, you know, and so, it's not necessary. I can put up with one night of bowling with him [chuckles], he's not that–I make him sound terrible. He's not that bad, but, um, it'll be interesting. My brother, John, the one who's my age, is, uh, had a final today. And we were talking a while yesterday, and then, he called me last night and he was hammered.
And he has a final at 10:00 a.m. And so, I know he's just going to be in a retched mood tomorrow. And you never know, what's he–what's he going to do? Is he going to drink a ton? Is he going to–what's he going to do? So–is he going to stay sober and be an a–usually if he's not drinking at all, he's just a grouch. And you're like oh my god, would you leave already, please?
THERAPIST: Have a drink.
CLIENT: Yeah. [Laughs]. Exactly. Exactly. You don't want to say–like, I don't want him to, but at the same time, like, oh my god. Just stop. It's your broth–like he will–it's, you know, at Chris's birthday dinner he came over and he's drinking milk, and he's got a sourpuss look on his face. And we're all having a glass of wine, like, okay, why don't you just go? Why don't you just go now?
And so, I think tomorrow will be, you know, he's going to be pissed about this final, and he's going to be a grouch. And then, I feel the need to comfort him and–him and his girlfriend of five years are breaking up. And so, then I feel bad. But I'm actually secretly really happy about it. Because she's a great girl, and she just deserves a lot better than him. And, um, I think she thinks she can fix him. And she–I've told her, explicitly, to leave the relationship–I love my brother more than anything in the world, but he's not a good partner. He's not somebody who's going to be good in a relationship.
And so, I've told her that. What I think about that. And so, they're breaking up, and he told me yesterday. And I think it's a great thing, honestly. But I don't know how to be supportive of him while still–I told him, I was like, I think it's for the best probably. But I still want to be supportive and not too prowess about it. Because I think I–kind of at times, if I think what's happening is good, even when the other person is sad, a lot of times I can just be a little bit like well, it's fine. It's good. Why are you–come on. Get on the same page as me.
So, I have to find a fine line with him in that situation. Because it is going to be hard and he's going to have to move out and find a new su–he's going to have to learn how to take care of himself. I don't know.
THERAPIST: You're very worried about some of the things you think and feel.
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like I have to justify them a lot. And I have to make sure–I'm very concerned with, um, with making sure that my feelings and my thoughts are in a box with normal. That's a very big concern of mine. And I don't, you know, I wish it wasn't because one part of my brain–one part of my brain obviously, really cares about that. I think the bigger part of my brain cares about that.
Another smaller part, doesn't give a shit. I don't care if what I'm thinking is what other people are thinking. I don't–you know? I just–part of me thinks like good. Think differently. Have a different outlook on this. And then, the other part of me is like make sure whatever you're doing is normal. Like, think how a normal person would think in this situation [chuckling].
And that's the bigger part of my brain that kind rules all, and I hate that part. Because it doesn't always–it just ends up making me feel more conflicted and confused, and upset.
THERAPIST: It tries to control the renegade faction.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. Um, I don't trust my gut a lot of times, even though I think I have a pretty good gut instinct. I think I do–the thing is if I would write down a list of qualities that I think about myself, they're so different than what goes on in my head. Do you know what I mean? I like to think of myself as independent, and, um, you know, kind of freethinking and it's not true. It's–I mean, I am–I am fairly independent, but–actually, um, that is one thing that I am.
But, um, you know, I think of myself as quirky and funny and all these things, and even though they're true, I'm always trying to make them true in a normal box. Like, okay. You can still be this person, but make sure it's not too quirky, make sure it's not too off the beaten path. Make sure you're not crazy [chuckles] pretty much is what it comes down to. Um, yeah, I have to–I feel like I have to justify a lot, even to myself.
And so, I want to really get past that.
THERAPIST: So, if you think outside the box, it could mean that you're crazy?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yep. That's usually what I–I do a lot of like well, I don't know why I do–in my head, I'm always thinking like, well, would other people do that? Would other people, like, think that? Would other people say that? I just wish I didn't do that because it doesn't matter. I'm not crazy, I'm not currently going [laughing] crazy. Fingers crossed. I don't know, you're the doctor [laughing] you can tell me.
THERAPIST: Well maybe, I wonder with all this anxiety you've been feeling that that's a worry, too. Because I don't think the anxiety was so distressing, but what does this mean about your sanity?
CLIENT: Yes. That's what it is. It's a constant, like, check. I feel like if I can do a checks and balance and make sure then, it's–then, it's alright. You're fine. You're just fine. And it'll have soothing–try to soothing, soothe myself.
THERAPIST: But when you're alone, it's harder.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean, part of it is that I just don't really–part of me loves alone time. When Chris goes and I have a few nights to myself, I would love like a night to myself. I love a night to myself. Just to be like, make my own dinner–like this be peaceful and ahhh. Do you know? You have that sense you're just like this is so nice. I love this. But then, four days into it, I'm like oh my god. For me, it's just the monotony of every day for me, being alone with babies for ten hours.
Going home and being alone–I feel like I'm alone with people all the time, if that makes any sense. And that, for me, is the loneliest feeling. I'm alone with these babies and they're so cute and sweet, but they're babies. And they're draining. And then, I go home and my husband sits in another room and works.
And I'm lonely. And, um, I do–I am a person who loves being around people, I love being in groups, I love being at other people's homes. I just love being with people. And, um, and I think it does serve a purpose for me. I think it helps me to keep fulfilling how I think of myself. I think of myself as kind of, you know, a lot of my friends come to me kind of for, like, advice now. And I kind of like that role of being somebody as–who's like a sounding board. I kind of like that.
And I–I like being this quirky kind of person who offers a different kind of sense of humor. And I–I do get satis-, you know, fulfillment from that. And so, I think it off–even though it is something I enjoy, I think I get a lot out of it, too. But I don't–I don't get to do it a lot because we don't have that many friends here. So, it's the same [sighs] thing all the–you know, we have our–our two best friends, but that's–that's mostly who we spend our time with.
THERAPIST: Which is I guess–we're going to need to stop, [inaudible 0:45:25].
CLIENT: [inaudible 0:45:28] moving.
THERAPIST: And walking, too.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sorry.
THERAPIST: So, I will see you on Monday, then?
CLIENT: Yes, that's great.
THERAPIST: [Interposing] our regular time on Monday.
CLIENT: That's great. Yeah.
THERAPIST: [inaudible 0:45:37].
CLIENT: And so, you'll–I got your form. And so, you'll send me a statement at the end of the month?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Um, actually, what I'll do–usually, the–what's today? Or what's the–I'll send you a statement for our last three sessions, and then, I'll send you another one at the end of December. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: That's perfect. Great. Okay. Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. And I hope you have a weekend, and I look forward to seeing you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yes. Oh yeah, I'll see you very soon.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I'll see you soon.
CLIENT: [Laughing].
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: Bye-bye.
CLIENT: Bye.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
