TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: It's been a crazy 24 hours. I'm closing tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Oh, good.
CLIENT: While I'm going to be in South Carolina. 
THERAPIST: Oh, no.
CLIENT: And they're not giving me the docs until tomorrow, so I've got to sit on an airplane—hopefully they'll give them to me on the early side. I've got another attorney doing the closing at his office at five and I just have to pray that everything goes off without a hitch or else, I don't know. I don't know what else.
THERAPIST: I was confused. I had been thinking this was the one where you needed to get the wire in or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. That already closed on Friday. Jess e-mailed me yesterday that she can do the wire, but in return I have to set up a schedule with the kids. I told her I didn't need her to do the wire. (both laugh) Everything has got to have some stupid quid pro quo, you know? It's just like why can't you just do it? First of all, I told you her friend always begs on her at the last minute, which is probably what happened. My way involves a little bit of risk, but it's a risk I'm willing to take just to not have to use Jess, you know? [00:01:51]
THERAPIST: This probably isn't going to sound good the way I'm asking it, but how long are you going to be able to keep going without any kind of schedule with the kids anyway? 
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm just so overwhelmed right now. Luckily I was supposed to see what's-her-name . . . 
THERAPIST: the psychiatrist?
CLIENT: Yeah. She called me sick and canceled. I have two titles I need to do today. One of them I just finished up and I've got to do the other one. I've got the coach's meeting for soccer tonight. At some point I was supposed to get all my shit together so I can go on this stupid trip. I don't know why I picked to go down on Thursday. I may have been talking to my brother and he said he was going to have the kids on Friday, but he's not going to get the kids until Saturday morning so it's like I'm going to fly into Charlestown. He's going to be working until five-six o'clock, whatever. I don't know if he's even going to give me a key to his house. I'm going to be trying to e-mail stuff, trying to find wi-fi to get this closing all wrapped up. [00:03:18]
THERAPIST: You know what it is to change your flight?
CLIENT: $500.
THERAPIST: Oh. 
CLIENT: So you know a one-way flight is $220. Overall I paid $200 and I asked what is it? Why can't I just . . . 
THERAPIST: It would probably cost you more than it would to buy a new ticket.
CLIENT: Yeah. He was like, "Well, you have to redo a round trip." I just said "My God." It's too much for me to handle because while all this is going on I've got a landlord-tenant matter where the tenant is asking me for an extra ten days. It's friends of Jess and they're really just angry people and it's really a bitter situation. It's like I don't want to go between a woman who doesn't want to leave and people that want her out of there, you know? Nobody's cooperating. Nobody's being reasonable. To some degree my client, her daughter just got married. The daughter was going to move in upstairs with her husband and the dad is in town so he's going to stay with them upstairs. The mom, my client, is going to move downstairs where the tenant is, but the tenant is not going to be out. [00:04:32] The boyfriend has a truck to move. He's losing his lease where he's renting from, so he's got a truck . . . [00:04:41]
THERAPIST: The husband?
CLIENT: The husband, yeah. So he's got to move all his stuff on the second. He's got a truck, so it's like her not leaving is really screwing a lot of things up; but like I've explained to my clients, they would have to come up with about $1,500 to give the constable. First of all you have to get an execution, which you have to wait until Tuesday. Then you've got to give that to the constable, who has to tack a notice on her door giving her 48 hours. You've got to give the constable $1,500 for their fee and for the moving van and by the time you're looking at that, you're looking at the ten days she wants anyways. It's just . . . (sighs) This is why you know when my dad wants me to do divorce law, it's like I can't fucking handle it because it's going to be even worse than this, where it's like I try and live my life and I can't because of people's petty bullshit. That's the thing about doing closings. I don't have to deal with people's bullshit. I just close the loan. [00:05:53] People are happy with the rate they're getting. It's saving them money. They're buying a house. They're selling a house. You know? I don't have to deal with [ ]. (crosstalk at 00:06:03) Yeah. All this other shit just involves people knowing people. You can't make anybody happy because even if you win you've still got to try and collect the money, which I don't know how to do. (sighs) It's beyond what I feel like I'm capable of doing. I feel like I'm spread all over the place and about to just burst—like I'm hyper-anxious right now. I don't even know why. I can't do anything about the closing until tomorrow. Who knows? Maybe by some stroke of luck they give me the doc letters today, but I doubt it. It's like I have no options to try and do something for me. It's like I've got fucking months of nothing but free time with no fucking closings, and the one time I try and leave town I get slammed with all of these closings. [00:07:13] (pause) So what were we supposed to talk about today? Something about pain. Oh, I want to fix my problems. Is that it? 
THERAPIST: Something like that. (pause) [00:08:50] Cameron, I'm not saying you should use divorce, but I'm going to use that as a hypothetical. I mean I think the point will be clear, but I hope it's also clear that I'm not intending to say I think you should do divorce. I have no idea. I do think the way you frame the issue though is characteristic, where the problem with divorce is everybody else's petty bullshit, and it would drive you nuts and so it's just not worth it, which it seems to me looks past two important things. There are three things going on there. Thing number one is I'm sure there is a tremendous amount of petty bullshit in divorce. I sort of work closely enough when there's been divorce to know what that looks like so I'm not doubting that at all, but there's this whole part about how their petty bullshit affects you that's more about you than about them and the petty bullshit. There is work to do. I mean there are people that do divorce and are fine—who somehow manage to deal with that—and you probably could be more like those people if that's something you wanted to work on. I don't know how hard it would be. I don't know how hard it would take, but you kind of leave that part out. That's thing one. [00:10:57] 
Thing two is very clearly your not having more money is a tremendous—it's the most stressful thing in your life. I mean if somebody handed you $2,000,000 today, it would change a lot in the way of how you felt today.
CLIENT: I can accept the divorce hypothetical, but the handing me $2,000,000 hypothetical is a little bit of a stretch. 
THERAPIST: (both chuckle) Here's what makes me think that; and maybe we disagree. Maybe I don't understand what you mean. You're saying that if somebody handed you $2,000,000 . . . 
CLIENT: I'm saying nobody's handing me $2,000,000. [00:12:08]
THERAPIST: Okay. Fair enough. What I mean is if there was more money in divorce, if once you got started you were making considerably more money than you are now, that would go a long way towards ameliorating your stress. That's really my point; but I think you kind of ignore that or don't even think about that that much because you just kind of have it as that's going to stress you out and you don't want to do it, without thinking about if it worked out how much it would also ameliorate your stress by increasing your income. [00:13:11]
CLIENT: But there is a giant leap to suggest that me deciding to do divorce is going to instantly make me money. It's not. It's going to take a while to build up a practice.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Compared to?
CLIENT: Trying to build up my real estate practice. I'm much farther along in real estate than I am with divorce. [00:13:44]
THERAPIST: Okay, so what I'm saying is I think you stop. Maybe I'm wrong about this part of it. What I'm trying to say is I certainly don't disagree with what you're saying. I know that it would take a while and be uncertain whether you can build a practice doing divorce. I'm not disagreeing with you about that. You certainly know a lot better than me whether that's more plausible than building your real estate practice up to what you want it to be or not. I don't know. It seems to me, at least when you talk about it here, you never talk about it that way or sort of consider it seriously. You kind of say, "It's stressful. I couldn't do it. It's impossible for me. I wish people would stop suggesting it." I guess the first part of this point I'm making here is that, again, your perspective whether divorce itself is right to do I think something that you're doing in thinking about it that is characteristic of you is to ignore the part about your own sort of emotional reactions or stress in thinking it through. [00:16:02] Like not thinking, "Okay, what are the ways in which people's petty bullshit pisses me off and why does that piss me off and are there ways I could deal with it so that it doesn't piss me off so much? I'm dealing with Jess. Does it make me feel helpless? Does it make me feel so enraged I can't think anymore? Does it make me feel like such an asshole?" What is it that it stirs up that it becomes so impossible or unlivable for you that you can't even think about doing it and it seems so unworkable? Again, I'm not trying to say you should do divorce. [00:17:12] 
I could say a similar thing about when you talk about spending time with the kids or not wanting to make a schedule about taking care of them. It's like you make it very clear to me—maybe to both of us—but certainly to me it's kind of like "don't even think about that as a possibility. There is no possible way I could handle the kids, handle divorce, handle this, handle that, and so I'm just going to do whatever I can to let everybody know that those aren't even on the table at all," rather than looking at why are those things so impossible? What do they stir up for you? What did it make you feel that quickly becomes completely impossible to tolerate and why? What's that about and how can you work with it? It tends to become about how Jess is ridiculous or how [commiting divorces aren't ridiculous.] (inaudible at 00:18:53) I'm not saying those things aren't true. I'm not trying to argue for Jess's reasonableness or the reasonableness of looking at divorce but, again, I think you very effectively tend to put a lot of these on other people that way when it comes specifically to this kind of stuff. I don't think you do this with other things—like with finances my impression is that you're way more on top of things and always have been and more responsible than Jess. I'm not saying this occurs across the board, but when it comes to emotional stuff, I think it's often like this. That's what I'm . . . [00:19:40]
CLIENT: There was a number three. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, so the first one was the petty bullshit of divorce being impossible, the second part is the stress of building up the practice being impossible; and the third part is spending a lot more time trying to convince me and everybody else that it's completely impossible rather than looking at what makes you feel it's so impossible and whether any of that stuff is actually workable. [00:20:18] 
CLIENT: That was dirty. (chuckles) (long pause) [00:23:28] I don't know. There are a lot more things to doing divorce than just people's petty bullshit; you being dragged into court all the time. It would get in the way of closings and E&amp;G.; You rely on your client doing financial statements. You need information so you can't do the financial statements. There are a lot of things there other than just dealing with people's petty bullshit. You have got to go and sit in court all morning or all day.
THERAPIST: Are you saying you don't have control over the scheduling of that and you don't really have control over scheduling the closings a lot of times either, so this could conflict? [00:24:45]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's like putting this closing package together tomorrow. It's like I don't have someone to do that for me so I have to do it while I'm on an airplane. I may not even get the docs by the time I'm done flying to Charlestown. If I get to Charlestown I have to get to some place where I can find wi-fi so I can do it. It just seems like I have got so many things going on but I'm not making money off of any of it; and to try and throw in one more thing, I don't feel that it's going to make me much money rather than just get in the way. [00:26:04]
THERAPIST: You generally make money from closings.
CLIENT: From closings, yes, but all the other bullshit I do—the condo stuff, the landlord tenant stuff—that stuff is no different than divorce and I have a little more control over it. 
THERAPIST: How come you're not making money from that stuff?
CLIENT: First of all, with the landlord-tenant I've already sent out my bill to these people and I've spent the last day dealing with this back-and-forth bullshit, when I know exactly what's going to happen—the woman is just not going to leave. I tell my clients, "You have no place to bargain from. You can't change the locks. You have just got to put up with it and decide whether you are going to go after her for the money or not. That's all you can do. That's your option," and they won't accept that. [00:27:13]
THERAPIST: And how does that relate to you not getting paid? They won't pay you if they don't like what you have to say?
CLIENT: Well I already sent them my bill and I haven't been keeping track of my time. They haven't even paid me for the shit before; and they're friends of Jess. I'm literally charging $75 an hour.
THERAPIST: Which they're not paying.
CLIENT: So it's like, you know, I'm getting e-mails from people saying, "Can you look at this?" "Can you tell me about this?" "Can we meet with you for this?" It just seems like I'm communicating with people and setting meetings up and all of this stuff but still I'm fucking broke. You know if I do a closing I'm going to get paid. [00:28:34]
THERAPIST: Cameron, I'm really not trying to be a pain in the ass about this, but just in terms of looking at how you're sort of talking this through you've mentioned four different problems so far with divorce—the petty bullshit, the scheduling, the not getting paid. Maybe that's three; and I'm not sure anymore how much each of these isn't a factor because I haven't heard you sort of think any one of them all the way through enough to know. You might be right and you might just be referring to them quickly and they might all make sense in your head, and I just don't get it because I don't know enough about how this stuff works. But it might also be that you get so frustrated or overwhelmed after thinking a few steps into it that you short-circuit and go onto something else, in a way that makes it really hard to evaluate whether it's a good idea. You may say, "Okay, fine. I know that the petty bullshit is totally overwhelming, but even if we forget that for a minute and assume that's workable, then there's the scheduling; and the scheduling is ridiculous. It would get in the way of closings. It would get in the way with this. It would get in the way with that." I'm like—okay. But closings could get in the way of closings? Is there really no way to work around that, and how often is that going to happen? Can you have people sub for you? I don't know. Maybe you can't. This is one of those things that I have no idea. Maybe it is totally incompatible and that's why nobody would ever do both. But you get so frustrated or so overwhelmed, I think, three steps into considering it that I think at least either . . . [00:30:54]
CLIENT: Well I'm overwhelmed with what I have to do now, and that's not enough. What am I going to do when I have enough? How overwhelmed am I going to be then? 
THERAPIST: Well, I know what you told me yesterday was that generally when you have work to do you've been able to get it done. I think part of that is because, more so than five or six months ago, you do have some work. Is it enough? No. Are you getting paid the way you should? No. But is it enough to kind of buoy your spirits a little bit and help to sort of keep you focused enough to get work done by when it needs to be done? Yes, it has been. I'm not sure if this is true but it's certainly plausible to me that if you knew you had four or five thousand dollars' worth of work over the course of a week, that would make you feel good enough to be able to stay organized and follow through in it. That could be. If you had three closings the week after next, you could . . . [00:32:35]
CLIENT: The problem is not the closings, it's all the other bullshit I'm scrambling and scratching and begging to do that is costing more of my time and more of my energy than for what I'm getting out of it. 
THERAPIST: Right, so it seems to me . . . 
CLIENT: I mean yesterday while I'm trying to do these titles that I'm going to end up doing today, I had six phone calls on six different things—none of which are making me money other than the closing.
THERAPIST: Are those closing-related things or landlord-tenant things? I mean if landlord-tenant things don't make you money and just cause you stress . . . [00:33:25]
CLIENT: It's the same thing with divorce. Once you get so much money from a person, you're going to send them bills and you're just not going to get the money back. You hit a point where you're beyond the retainer and you're working for free. I've seen Jess go through that and I've seen other attorneys go through that. 
THERAPIST: I see. Is there no way then to make money doing divorce? Really? 
CLIENT: You end up with a lot of your time not making money. If I got the experience enough where I could ask for a $5,000 retainer and get those kind of clients, I wouldn't worry about it so much.
THERAPIST: I see. So it's a matter of kind of building your practice to that point? [00:34:08]
CLIENT: Yes. We're talking years.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. That makes sense to me. You complain often about how Jess handles her divorce clients in that she doesn't get retainers from them or sufficient retainers and then she keeps working for them without billing them. You've gotten mad a bunch of times—when you guys lived together and were more financially connected—for basically not handling that stuff responsibly, in a way where she was fucking herself over and then fucking you over. But I guess the implication always seemed to me that if she was handling it better she would have been getting paid more. Now I guess it sounds to me on the other side of the fence that it's inevitable that you get fucked. [00:35:02]
CLIENT: Well with her, she wasn't getting retainers at all from some clients. 
THERAPIST: So it's a matter of degree of getting fucked.
CLIENT: Yeah, where she would get $1,000 or $500 and I do the same thing with landlord-tenant. Some people can't give you the money, but you have no choice because you have got no other work and it's your only way to get the work.
THERAPIST: Right, and I mean that's the upside of this, right?
CLIENT: I mean I've got this condo that owes me thousands of dollars that I don't think I'm ever going to get paid on. [00:35:55]
THERAPIST: Again, I feel like we're having this back-and-forth where you raise a problem and then I ask the question and think it through; and I feel like the target keeps changing. If what you're saying now is no, it's not doing divorce that means you're screwed, it's not having enough business that means you're screwed. That means that if you have enough business then you can only take on the cases where you'll get the retainer, where you know they can pay, so you want to be doing as many different types of work that you can so that you have as many opportunities to get these cases as you can. Do you know what I mean? I keep thinking about [ ] (inaudible at 00:36:51) 
CLIENT: I've got work now that is comparable to how you would have a client relationship with divorces.
THERAPIST: No, I get it. The landlord-tenant is sort of analogous to the divorce.
CLIENT: Right, and the condominium stuff is the same exact thing, but divorce is exponentially more difficult because of getting dragged into court, because the lawyers are assholes on the other side, because your clients are crying to you about who is going to take the dog over the weekend. It's that much worse and so if I'm stuck in the same position where I'm not making any money out of it—I mean yeah, I'm getting some money—but not enough that makes it worthwhile. I'm doing all this stuff now and I'm so desperate for the money that I'm taking cases that I shouldn't be taking. [00:37:54] I just get stuck in these positions I can't get out of, I can't extract myself from. No one is ever fucking happy. No one has ever said, "Hey, thanks," you know? And if they do, they owe me a ton of money. I can't live on people sending me $1,500 a month. 
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah you can. And you think it would be too hard or too long to build up the divorce practice to the point where you got reasonable cases?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't even know how I would get cases. I don't even know where the business would come from. Jess's been doing this stuff for fucking a very long time and is not getting enough cases to live off of, you know? [00:39:43]
THERAPIST: Yeah, but you describe ten different things that are fucked up about the way she goes about it.
CLIENT: It's like probate—I know how to do probate. I can do probate, but where are all the fucking probate clients? There are none. It's on my website. In my network I tell people that's what I do. 
THERAPIST: What is probate? I don't even know. [00:40:54]
CLIENT: When someone dies and you probate their will, their estate. Easy fucking work and I can't get any of it. (long pause) [00:43:39]
THERAPIST: I think we should finish up for now. 
END TRANSCRIPT
