TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: 0729-107 0729-107 Interview number three. Track 2. 1970. Okay.


COUNSELOR: Hi. 


PATIENT: Hi. 


COUNSELOR: Come on in.


PATIENT: Got work to be done?


COUNSELOR: Telephone problems or something.


PATIENT: How you feeling?


COUNSELOR: Fine. 


PATIENT: (sighs) Gosh


COUNSELOR: That sounds like a big sigh.


PATIENT: What an incredible week. Oh Jacquelyn I've got to go back in about an hour and try and solve a ... problem. Two interns at work under me had this tremendous fight while I was away in Atlantic City ... which would seem to be fed and kindled by the new guy. And I don't have any idea how to attack that. I don't know whether to bring - you know send them both down together and say okay I'm going to just listen to you both or whether to try and arbitrate it separately or whatever. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like it's hot right now.


PATIENT: Oh it's terrible right now. And yet the thing about it is that I'd love to let it cool off. It's a little more irrational than I'd hoped. You know I left them this morning at 10:30 and told them I'd be back at 3:30. I'd be in hopes that there is some cooling time now. You know long enough to cool.


COUNSELOR: What happened? Did they both come at you and say that [this one about that now] (ph)?


PATIENT: Right. [Say they want to be] (ph). Right. This morning they had a class at 10:30 and I couldn't do it. [I'm trying to start off the day] (ph). (laughs) I had just walking over here I just kind of filled up right to the top with things that occurred when. Atlantic City was a tremendous shock. 


COUNSELOR: It was?


PATIENT: No really. It was very degrading. I didn't find anyone out there ... much who was a person. You know they were all these mechanized machines. Everybody smiled. Everybody looking and you know you get the real feeling of paranoia because there's all these mirrors. And you know that they're two-way mirrors. And everybody's - they're open about the fact that they're two-way mirrors. And the people walking up and down in the room, watching while washing the table, watching the people coming in and all that stuff. And the only thing that it looks like people could relate to were these machines. And it's sort of like - I was really, really I guess I really felt uncomfortable for a couple hours. Except the people that I met with. They were fairly normal. But you know if the meeting was over, I was left with about six or seven hours time to waddle away in Atlantic City and really just feel like (inaudible at 3:47)


COUNSELOR: Must have been almost frightening like people that aren't people or something.


PATIENT: Right. Very much so. So I went into the bar and decided after walking around outside trying to get some fresh air which I couldn't get. I decided just to sit down. You know have a drink. And I did. I happened to sit right next to this prostitute who was trying to proposition this old, old man. And he was in turn giving her this long lecture on the virtues of ... the virtues and advice. You know how did a nice girl like you get in a place like this sort of thing. 


I think I would really, really like to talk to anybody about that time. But nobody was there to talk to. So I just felt like ... a very lonely way.


COUNSELOR: Like you were thinking about being left alone and.


PATIENT: I guess as a part of it that essentially like that because I never really traveled. So that's - you know. We never took vacations and I never went anywhere. But ... so it's always an experience. And it was quite a shock. You know to travel some place. 


(sighs) So those are my two depressing problems that I don't.


COUNSELOR: That's still kind of weighing on you. The feeling left over from last time?


PATIENT: The feeling. Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Very funny feeling. Yeah. Because you know that I guess it said something. Made me feel something about the people and the society we live in. You know? There are the type of Atlantic City that epitomized everything that I thought was wrong ... with this country. And with the middle and upper class ... and the lower class for that matter. I mean you know they - I don't think they have to class for those things. Because I saw people who looked like they obviously were migrant workers. But they hardly you know clothed and feed their kids. And here they were playing with this gambling thing over here.


COUNSELOR: Right. [6:15]


PATIENT: And I think the difference is that growing up in Louisiana ... as I did. I use that. The tourist business is very good in this therapeutic sort of way. And I guess I'm beginning to feel what a waste that whole falsehood is. And I began to feel guilty about having those - making those observations because they're really just observations. They're critiques. They carry more than just a side ways glance. They're critiques and they're frightening. When will I become like these you know and start relating the machines, playing luck and incredible number of liberal ladies out there who will just sit there by the hour feeding the nickel slot machine nickels. And it's frightening to me (inaudible at 7:14).


COUNSELOR: Where life goes? (laughs)


PATIENT: Is this where life ultimately goes?


COUNSELOR: Where we end up. That's an innocence thing.


PATIENT: Interesting that you said that. Because I guess that ... that may be one reason that I decided to go for a PhD instead of into private practice. Because I look at a lot of people in private practice. And I realized what it looked like to me. Like where life went for them was into about 40 to 50,000 thousand dollar house and a new car every two years and that sort of thing. And that's where life you know went for a long block of their life - 20 or 30 years. And ... I just didn't want that.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 8:01) unreal.


PATIENT: I didn't want that to - it seemed bored - boring and ... I guess really kind of I mean. I don't know. And then I get the feeling of what right do I have to say that's wrong. You know? Should I always be saying it's wrong for me? I mean I don't forget I do get the feeling like it's wrong for me. I have doubts about what to do. Because of when it comes down and you pay the bills ... at the first of the month ... I don't even pay month to month (inaudible at 8:39) I pay the bills in person or end you end up the same as always - bills for the whole month after you've paid the bills. I mean that's - you get this continuing (inaudible at 8:49)


COUNSELOR: And then you wonder about the other advice? [8:54]


PATIENT: And then I wonder about that yeah. That and the fact that I thought this life would be some what slower paced. But I mean my days are just incredible. And I wonder sometimes like for instance today I went to work at 8 o'clock. And this thing exploded about 9:30 a quarter of 10 and I tried to get some information - what the client said at 10:30. Came back, got the kids. They just have the kids until about 15 minutes ago. I'm here and now and then I have to go back at five o'clock I have to be home to start babysitting again because Susan goes to work at night. And I think you know how am I getting this resolved? You know where's it really - where's it all going? 

And I guess I ... I guess there's a certain frame (ph) about trying to see a little bit about where I'm going. Because I think there's a difference between living every moment and kind of having control of what - some of the moments. I guess living every moment on band-aids and just stopping up the wounds with band-aids. 


COUNSELOR: And that's the way this is going?


PATIENT: Very much so. Like - it's like I told you earlier this week I don't have time to handle this right now. I think I can get a good tourniquet on it. So what I did was like the paternalistic (ph) thing. I quoted (ph) with each of the girls not listening to the other girl, tell the intern to divide up the patients coming in. But you're not to speak to the girls anymore than to say that this patient is yours. But you know. Very - They're very humiliating to all three of those people. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: And I realize that. That they're essentially at that moment feeling (inaudible at 10:49)


COUNSELOR: You're like being caught in having to run? And you'll run again.


PATIENT: This constant shit can get irritating. (sighs) Really. And I could help if maybe I could work another way where I could shift gears easier. You see I guess - I guess it's like I - Susan and I were talking about therapy. And she worries that she proposed her therapy onto mine because she talks a lot about it. I don't think so because ... I had some preconceived notions - whether this is right or wrong I don't know. Some preconceived notions about where I wanted to go. And what I wanted to take out of it. 


COUNSELOR: Like whenever people can't assert that? [11:43]


PATIENT: None at all. No. It's like I explained (laughs) it for you the first day - that awkward first day with the fact that I wanted to come to this and this and this. I know that must have really gone on (laughs) like well I wonder his list is. Does he got his list in his pocket? I really don't know. I need a lot of (inaudible at 12:08) [12:09] 


Susan is beautiful in the fact that I can talk to her. And she can understand my feelings. She can't understand situations if she's not involved in situations. The people who are involved in the situations can't understand the feelings ... at all. I mean they just completely close in so they you know. They are unable to feel that there's friction. If there's friction they're way of handling it tends to be to segregate ... the two people who are having the friction until time passes and their wounds mend - but with scar with them. Where the idea of going in and ... opening up the wound again to try and get a better type of solution is definitely is a no. So.


COUNSELOR: Is that the kind of situation we're in right now?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: You're like well what will I do with these two?


PATIENT: Do I. Do I ... go and open up this wound and get them to talk about what is really troubling them - between each other. And have some - me listening more than talking. And letting them hear each other. Somehow they'll be able to resolve part of this problem. But it's like how do I know rather that's going to work and that's got me scared that it's really not going to work. 


COUNSELOR: That you get the feeling that somehow it will end up in the same kind of bind.


PATIENT: Then what do I do? The idea of responsibility here when it's not the responsibility - is not mine. I'm only acting in somebody's step but the person's step A doesn't attack problems like that. B probably would not attack the problem at all ... except probably to fire one of the (inaudible at 14:28). (sighs) And ... he just is not - he doesn't really have much touch with this - the people. And I think that he doesn't want much touch it appears. Because I think he's frightened of being hurt. I don't know. [14:50]


Or conversely that you know that will get him nowhere. I mean except to make it work. You know making this work ... sort of thing. 


COUNSELOR: And that makes you feel awfully heavy about - of one fact that you can't go in kind of openly while making this decision.


PATIENT: (coughs) Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: You know possible solutions.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: That maybe ought to work.


PATIENT: Because it's not you know it's not like ultimately the say (ph). If I can get it to work then that's expected. If it fails - if it really blows up then oh course that's not expected because then I'll catch you know some teary (ph) from an up (ph). And I don't know. This is one of those days that everything just keeps on burning inside. And I don't want you to - I'm just having one of those days and everything's just churning inside. 


COUNSELOR: But you would like to know what I think.


PATIENT: I would love for you to tell me. I know you won't. But I don't know. I mean you know I have begun - the fact that this is part of the limit. And this years not. I'm not sure that I'd have it any other way. But I get scared. I guess if you had it a better solution. If you have a solution ... if you had a magic potion I'd love to have it. If that makes sense. I'd like not to face that. 


COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what is (inaudible at 16:46) of not having to finish going back to those two and try to see deal with them or what.


PATIENT: Yeah I guess. I'd like to not have to face them. I'd like not to have face the feelings I have about Atlantic City. I like to have to not face them. All of them. Tone them all out. For day to day if I could just have - rise above it and walk on this whole lofty perch and be able to you know (inaudible at 17:25)


COUNSELOR: You could cope? [17:27]


PATIENT: I think. I'm not sure. 


COUNSELOR: What I keep hearing you say who's to say that almost. So let's give off this flat somewhere and like you really want that.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: But what you're left with them right now is turning into a scary feeling. What do I do with all this stuff because it's scary?


PATIENT: Here's the question. Do you think this would - do you think it's been to have guilt?


COUNSELOR: Not necessarily.


PATIENT: I was just thinking. What would life be like if I didn't have any guilt? If I could just do whatever I felt like in reverse of anybody else. And say that's just too bad. And I guess I'd miss a lot of people. I'd really hurt a lot you know I probably wouldn't even know about it because I was so busy saying that's too bad. That's the way I am. 


COUNSELOR: But is it guilt when you say you're so concerned about other people? 


PATIENT: I don't know. I maybe call it guilt. But the feeling I get in my stomach right in the upper abdomen where the stomach feels like it's going to float through the diaphragm ... like a heinous hernia. I know it doesn't. But it feels that way. I feel like it crawls right up into my chest. And ... it's a very tight feeling and that's guilt. And the interesting thing about that it's guilt when usually before I do anything. Because I have like I said I've been having guilt before and I have guilt during and guilt after. (laughs) But that's what happened. That's the first guilt and the guilt after tends to when I recall something that I did then I feel was against my laws then I can by recalling put that same feeling. And I guess the same thing the guilt in doing the (inaudible at 19:40)


COUNSELOR: Like somehow this is something that I don't approve of but don't want to be doing according to my laws.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're feeling it right now or something like that. It makes you think going into the situations and like that. 


PATIENT: You're right. It's in the way I think. Feel like it's really (sighs) I don't where to go after that. I kind of realize that feeling.


COUNSELOR: Like it's a (inaudible at 20:19) 


PATIENT: (Inaudible at 20:19)


COUNSELOR: And scared. [20:21]


PATIENT: I'd like to just lie down and go to sleep ... which is what I use to do when in I was in college right before we go down. I'd sleep on the average of 15 minutes and then study 5 and then sleep 15 minutes. And then that seemed to pass the time. And then the exam came and I took the exam. And all it was was just a matter of before the exam. Like before an athletic contest if you could just sleep or go to the movies or something. And you didn't have that awful sick feeling in your stomach. Like how you (inaudible at 20:58)


And I guess it goes back to the idea of the appendix too. It can have a tremendous impact on the fact that I wonder sometimes about intellectually you know some substantiation make us think (coughs) and more emotionally. Whether the appendix - I had it - my appendix out at age 25 years of age - might be telling me something about how long I had to live. Because of appendicitous. Like if I know a matter of that 41/50. You know wonder if I - my body is 35 years old. I mean it's a screwy thing. It may not make all this jazz where it doesn't make any sense to you I can understand that. It's just the fact that ... it just started bubbling up as I was walking over here ... which doesn't say anything. None of which can I really categorically look at ... or analytically as some sort of relationship. 


Because that's what I've been feeling. That things are out of control. And I have nothing to say about the things that control.


COUNSELOR: So it's all happening to you in some way.


PATIENT: Yeah. If I get this one you know if I get this situation ironed out I've got another one which is. As soon as I get this one handled then I've got to meet with one of the students in the class who is a young girl that really, really frightens - I don't think that I don't think I have met anyone who's had quite the profoundness on me that this young girl has. She just seems to ... exude more and kind of that scares me. It's (inaudible at 23:16). The situations like right now I'm feeling the feeling that fear it. There's somebody to be warm (ph). [23:26]


It goes back to the feeling we were talking about last week. That could be a very scary for me. And if she's lovely and soft spoken, quiet and she wants me to go over slides with her because she actually thinks that I can help her with the course. And you know here I am having all these other feelings. I mean it's just crazy. I just really feel like (makes noise) icky like the way there. I'm glad you're done because I'm.


COUNSELOR: Like feeling very scared inside you as well.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Well I can get kind of overwhelmed with these feelings.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: What will I do? Where do I stand?


PATIENT: I don't think that. I'd love to be able to say I don't behave and act freaky this way. This is the way I feel about you. Then I'm not sure exactly where this will ultimately go. And I have some fears. And these are my fears. But I don't want my fears to totally alienate me from being able to receive and give to you what we could give in a very meaningful way. And yet you know to take a person off the street and tell them that. It would be difficult for me to handle. If there was somebody that wasn't use to hearing this sort of talk they could just run right up a tree and miss the point totally. 


COUNSELOR: It would seem like something you don't understand then you'd be scared to death. 


PATIENT: To really get involved. They feel like this is a proposition by a 35 year old man. I guess what I'm coming to is the fact that I'm just beginning to get comfortable with experiencing (inaudible at 25:26) That you don't have to do with any sexuality. Not - that it doesn't have to do with sexual intercourse. It has to do with sexuality naturally. But it doesn't have to be with sexual intercourse. That doesn't have to be the key you're talking about you see. And that's a (inaudible at 25:43) Except that you know that I've got to handle her. And then I've got to handle the kids tonight when I get home and to be everything. 


Tyler comes home from school. And he said that one of the kids in his class has been getting all sorts of stuff about his lunch box. His lunch box is different from everybody else's. This lunch box and you know it just crushes him in first class. And he's been singled out to be one who just stands there and takes the gossip ... this one person who didn't allow it. So I can't. [26:20]


COUNSELOR: So you suddenly feel like I have to help him through this somehow.


PATIENT: I have to help him through the. One you're going to have asked when - do I know when I run out of gas? Feel all of the sudden that there's (inaudible at 26:38) that I know you can't just turn on and off like that. I can't. Because (inaudible at 26:45).


COUNSELOR: So like it suddenly (inaudible at 26:51) like it's pounded to death. And it does feel like it's just coming at you faster than you can deal with it suddenly.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And you'd like to be able to turn off for a little while. Curl up somewhere.


PATIENT: Right. And (inaudible at 27:07) What do you do? How do you live? 


COUNSELOR: Don't really feel like it but just turn off and stay off for a while.


PATIENT: (sighs) When (inaudible at 27:30) it felt like it would feel like I had gotten drunk. And I got a hangover. And I then realized after the - during the hangover that my problems were still there. I know. I don't like that I have ever been one who others call classically drunk in my entire life that I have felt that bad the next day. And I found that I always got a little angry with it. I felt like I'm under the influence of that much alcohol. I wasn't really me. And it is important to be really me. 


And conversely I guess ... I guess maybe it is really me at this moment because I'm going through all those things because they were all clicking through my mind. And I would I guess I would feel like the problems were still there ... and probably more compromised than less. I haven't taken direction ... you see because it's just like Tyler coming home with his lunch box clashes. I also said (laughs) you know I had everything planned out today. And (laughs) I said which route I was going to attack and which one's first. And then he threw this in and I thought well that's just that's really (laughs) not making it any.


COUNSELOR: (laughs) (inaudible at 28:53)


PATIENT: No. I didn't expect that Tyler. Let's see what we can take care of that. And yet I don't want to take care of that. I don't want to take care of the problem with the girls and what I probably don't want take care of the problem with the student. Because I don't want to be with these problems. Like whether to be involved or ... and not to have this (snaps fingers) snap solution. To make that phrase a lot. [29:30]


I use to think that there was one solution to everything. You have a problem. You plug in the answer ... right or wrong. And if so you plug in another answer until you come up with finding the right answer. And that's the answer to the problem and it's solved. It goes out of your mind. 


(sighs) And that worked fine for you know for math. It didn't work at all for people. Because people didn't and I get the feeling that people don't need the answer to problems. You see that's why I would love for you to answer. I would love for you to come up with the right answer.


COUNSELOR: The right plug. (laughs)


PATIENT: The right plug. But no one should have to. I really doubt much if they - and I guess it's these feelings that make me feel affirmative (ph) about myself. You know that really make me feel good that okay there - the slack is pretty heavy. But I actually got control over here.


COUNSELOR: Because I'm here like - I was going to say I'm here and I'm dealing with them. I'm not just desperately having the one thing that I can plug in that'll I guess just take it away.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Wipe it out.


PATIENT: Right. And I feel like I'm at least dealing with them in a more effective way than alcohol ... and drugs. I mean extra marital sex ... which I feel are like always a paneling this and that so but like not just me but everybody. 


COUNSELOR: And that makes you feel good.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Solid.


PATIENT: And the interesting point about it is that ... that's just the first time from hearing about that I asked for help. You know people helped me along the way. Most of the time they didn't know they were helping me. But here I came right out and I said you know I want some help. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it's a scary thing to ask you for help. It makes me feel ... so emotionally (inaudible at 31:58)


COUNSELOR: Makes you feel very vulnerable.


PATIENT: Oh yeah. Exactly. Like what are you going to do with all this stuff? You can always take you know. Oh course I'm talking very low today. (laughs) You're probably not going to get any of this. You know how can you? You got to answer that question. [32:21] 


COUNSELOR: So you feel something like I'm going to do.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And like the questioning [on the other side of this] (ph). Yeah I don't know if what I'm saying helps. And I'm scared to death. And I don't know if you could do anything with that. 


PATIENT: Yeah. It's like a friend is dying ... and there's no cure. And I'm pretty pessimistic. 


COUNSELOR: That's the way it feels.


PATIENT: Sometimes. 


COUNSELOR: And it's like saying that life is running away from you somehow. I mean it's like being on top of (inaudible at 33:06) 


PATIENT: (inaudible at 33:13) about death. When am I going to die? What is going to happen after I die? If I die right now the problems would get sent off to ... something would happen. They'd get worked out for once. Now I guess it's just that I linger around the - to enjoy the feeling of them being worked out. 


COUNSELOR: And it looks like they're saying to you that you're not essential in the working out in some ways.


PATIENT: Yeah I'm realizing that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: That doesn't feel very good. You know you like to think that what you were doing was worthwhile. And that it created something better and more than what you started out with. But I'm not sure I can take it to some place greater. That it would work out spontaneously. 


COUNSELOR: That makes you feel very old?


PATIENT: Yeah. It just you know it's this fluctuation that I feel after all - the high part and the low part. And they come off so quick in time sequence that that's when I really begin to wonder where I am. For it to work, there's always a balance where I'm just falling - constantly falling. 


It's funny that you mentioned this one little girl. I took that test and one of the questions was completing sentences about what you expected. I think one of the reasons - one of my big reasons for trusting this type of therapy is the fact that going back to the alcohol I didn't want my problems solved by the use of alcohol. And I didn't want them solved by the use of tranquillizers or diagnoses. That really didn't you know really I didn't think so you know I didn't want things like that. [35:56]


(Phone Ringing)


COUNSELOR: Or something put on you? I'm sorry.


PATIENT: I didn't shock treatments or the things that I have heard about at school. And I didn't want to be one flies over the coo-coo's nest. I think that's the reason that I chose this method of trying to attack the problems that I really like I said. It seemed like the more realistic approach. And I think it's probably made me feel more open to them. Because like the first day when you wouldn't say much I just wondering what you were - what in the hell you were sitting over there thinking. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah almost like in a way I have to spread myself all out and let you're - let me pull it out of you.


PATIENT: Yeah right. That and the fact that okay I'm spreading myself all out there but there's no mutuality to it you see. She won't even talk (laughs) a little bit about it. It was a very strange feeling. 


COUNSELOR: And it felt terribly lonely sitting on - there.


PATIENT: Yeah. Like I said I've gotten this. I got this Monday night when we were eating dinner. I had this roasted dinner in this fairable motel in Atlantic City (sighs) and my advisor well he said what you have to do is you have to just keep your mouth shut. When you feel like saying something just keep your mouth shut. And there are a couple times I've been told to keep my mouth shut. And I don't know. I would say no less than a half a million. I mean everyone has told me to keep my mouth shut. Now if keeping my mouth shut is the thing to do why am I so stupid that I don't keep my mouth shut? If it's not the thing to do then why are these other people constantly telling me to keep my mouth shut? You see? And depending upon the moment you can slop it off and then say that. Ha Ha Ha. Here's another one. (coughs) [38:12]


There are some moments when you're - you don't need that. And you need somebody to say I affirm the idea that you're at least trying. That you're not winning all of the time but you're at least trying. Somebody pops up and says well keep your mouth shut and everything will work out. And it's like ... I just got to know where. I use to have long arguments with my father about it. And he would say what don't - don't run for elections (ph). Why don't you just - why aren't you quiet like your brother? And I'd have long arguments and I'd say well I'm not my brother. And I don't keep my mouth shut because I feel things. And ... I don't know what I'm going to do about it. I guess ... it did go over wrong sometimes. Sometimes it hits home and I feel like well I think I should just keep my mouth shut. 


COUNSELOR: When is that moment?


PATIENT: When I'm not sure of anything.


COUNSELOR: Did you stop talking at all?


PATIENT: That's not - not trying to - not going back and spending the time with these two people this afternoon ... and trying to work out anything. 


COUNSELOR: Just stay uninvolved.


PATIENT: Just stay uninvolved. Yeah. Having a situation where we're talking about a patient and having people say all sorts of things of funny things about that patient. And not saying but that's a patient. Well that sounds corny. You have these high power conferences and they're talking about all the low [interest reasons] (ph) - the mechanics and then you come up with the idea that you're dealing with a patient. It just you know that's not supposed to be said. That's a no no. 


COUNSELOR: So you don't kind of say something where it kind of conflicts with their values so you won't.


PATIENT: Yeah right. If everybody ... I just don't know what to think. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I guess I've seen now from my father's point of view that he didn't want me to be hurt. And I guess I've seen from my advisor's point of view that he doesn't want me to get hurt either. These are all fine people who mean very well. They don't want me to ... to become vulnerable by saying something. And I guess that's why when I was one of people who indirectly talks in those terms and sometimes more directly. [41:01]


Here's my spouse. You see? And that's one of the very negative feelings I have about her. When we were first married we - she use to spend at home all of the time writing home. And I started from (inaudible at 41:17) tell me what I did wrong? And when I open my mouth when I should not have. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: And that's better now because she's begun to open her mouth. You see? And she's beginning to appreciate that's hell of a situation now. But I think it's you know I think in a way what they're trying to say is you don't get hurt. And I don't want you to hurt.


COUNSELOR: So they're really trying to express caring here for?


PATIENT: In some wack (ph) I can't - sometimes I can rationalize. And I like that. And I would hope that it's like that. Maybe that's just a fantasy. But I guess that's a way of rationalizing things. But nobody's ever said that to me. If what I am saying is lucky then should I - what I'm saying is that you will get hurt when you open your mouth. And it hurts me when you hurt. Nobody's ever been that explicit. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: So all this other implication is my own interpretation of those implications. They may be saying keeping your mouth shut because you're the only one talking ... for all I know. But I'd like to think its because they really cared. 


COUNSELOR: But what you hear when they kind of - well maybe that's what your hang up from what you hear is well don't be you.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: And stop putting yourself out there.


PATIENT: And so what's wrong with being me? You know to being that (inaudible at 42:48) a feeling I guess I was talking about guarding the laws - the establishment. And it feels like sometimes the laws and the people that hire places really are saying don't be yourself. You fit into this kind of caulk. And to carry that to the extreme that you know I don't carry that - it's unnecessary -I don't feel like I have to carry that to the extreme. I don't feel like there are people hiding behind doors listening to what I say just to entice me. I don't think I'm quite that macro valiant. 


I still get this parading sense that's why nobody likes - nobody - I guess like isn't a very good word. Nobody's like to know who ... said something bad. In other words it would be nice for Tyler to have a lunch box just like everybody else. When I think about to give him a lunch box just like everybody else. [44:00]


COUNSELOR: That would sent away saying well then nobody's uncomfortable - he and everybody else. And that would feel easier. 


PATIENT: Yeah but you see it's alright for me. When I don't give him a lunch box like everybody else's that's me putting on him. And that that's real scary.


COUNSELOR: So you're not sure you - that's the way he feels.


PATIENT: Right. That's great. Because I know how he feels. He feels like the solution to his problem would be to get that certain kind of a lunch box. And I feel the solution to his problem would be to handle his problem unrespectable to the lunch box. You see? So who wins? 


COUNSELOR: You have a heck of a deal with this sort of thing.


PATIENT: Right. But I guess it is like you know comparing therapy (laughs) into the nice way of putting it (laughs) (inaudible at 45:16) have this other person that you like she doesn't have to bang her head up against the wall ... to a certain how hard the wall is. She thinks it's an easier way. And so she's attacked her therapy that way. Where I would I you know she's got into therapy that way. Where I guess the word I would use to describe the way I've gone into therapy is attacked therapy (laughs) and in the same old plotting aggressive way. 


COUNSELOR: Blending in.


PATIENT: Well.


COUNSELOR: Where you're every which way on this. It's sort of like you're saying but I feel uncomfortable about that somehow. 


PATIENT: I'd like that it be accepted. I'd like for that to be accepted. You see? I'd like to be accepted finally. Because I enjoy (inaudible at 46:17) For me to accept that and easy does it, it just you know I just chaff at the (inaudible at 46:26) sort of way. But I get the impression that that's the way I was wrong. To be that you know.


COUNSELOR: Get to feel like you're not right now? Being accepted?


PATIENT: I don't know. The old business about here I'm laying myself all out ... and I don't know what you're thinking. 


COUNSELOR: So it's not - you don't know because you can't get an essential feeling. [47:00]


PATIENT: We are - you're concentrating on me. And you see that's unnatural for me to concentrate this hard on me. Because when I'm - at least I learn I guess (sighs) that in a time that I've been experiencing people. There's one thing that's important that you're going to be vulnerable. That you better be damn well better know where the other people see. They're not getting it. They're not understanding the implications that you're really dissemble. And you better know that. 


COUNSELOR: Because they might suddenly swing out.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: So then you must feel very alone without that right now. And you feel well I haven't been getting any sense of her and like that's not good enough.


PATIENT: Right. Except that you're here to help.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: You saying there's an assumption ... and maybe it's a crazy assumption on my part but it seems that you're - you're someone who says you know this is where I am. And you may be a - you know you may be a gross person but because you decided you know that you're here I don't have any idea that you're that you're a gross person. Just being here says something about you. 


COUNSELOR: Like the situation that it looks like no. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And that's (inaudible at 48:37)


PATIENT: Makes you think that. Because I don't feel like you're going to run out and say that my life bothers you and how much it bothers you. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I think the next month since then I wanted Susan and me in therapy - was in therapy for a while before I went into therapy. Because we really got down to the nitty gritty and I was just scared of being vulnerable. Probably more scared of being vulnerable because I guess I've been - know hard it hurts. How much it hurts ... to be in a position that has a (inaudible at 49:17). It really devastates you. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: When you're on your way down. 


COUNSELOR: It feels like okay I put myself out there and then I'm getting clobbered. 


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: And I know that. [49:33]


PATIENT: Yeah and I don't think you're going to do that. I don't know. It's funny. The past few times I've smiled when I walked out of here. I don't know what good it's done. Because that makes me feel that one thing for sure is I haven't - you see I can say more to you - is that a fly? - I can say more to you (laughs) (inaudible at 50:12) that I can to Susan. Because she wants to stop on each individual thing and I - that's the thing that really has drawn us very closely together. But it's also been a little bit destructive. I do the same thing to her. All these things that she does to me I do to her so. Every time she kills me about not talking I kill her about - kills me about talking I kill her about not talking. You know if you were so smart why didn't you open your mouth? You know the part. But ... we tend to get hung up on the first - think here are all these things. And it's the combination of all these things ... that's really climbed up inside of (inaudible at 50:52)


COUNSELOR: So you feel - you're feeling like I can't never get past number one.


PATIENT: Right. And when there are fifteen of these things that are really upsetting. You know I can't. It's like the rain I guess. You know you see the rain but I'm trying to grab a hold of it. I'm just grabbing. So how could this - how can half the one - be what half of what I'm doing here be helpful? And it's funny because I smile when I walk out of here. 


COUNSELOR: And you're smiling in theory that's going to become comfortable.


PATIENT: That's why the interview with - would bruise me so hard is because how do you put that time to work? You know what's bothering me? Well I don't know what's bothering me. I don't even know which you know (laughs) what can you say? I you know I don't even know. But I just know that .... I do feel better. I'd love to for people out there - there are times when I need it to help me - to work out beautifully. You know Susan's the person. (Inaudible at 52:15) agree with you people?


COUNSELOR: She's the only one that you really feel safe with. [52:21]


PATIENT: Right. Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And I get that that's very hard to say ... that I really do want help. And you want to feel free to just be able to put it out there. 


PATIENT: Yeah. It helped when I said to make it simple. And not a manipulating type of help. Like okay that's your problem. I get you. Oh you're problem and I'm just going to keep my mouth shut. I'll be saying there's the solution to all my problems. Just keeping my mouth shut.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: And it's unacceptable. It doesn't say. You know if somebody would say you know Russell I've been watching you and you - in that situation I think you opened your mouth here, here and here and you probably shouldn't have. But it's alright that you opened your mouth. At least you had you know you were doing something. If somebody just would apply that once in a while. God I'd you know. That would be incredible. But.


COUNSELOR: It's just saying I'm alright.


PATIENT: Yeah. They just say I'm alright. Right. There's a - is this good time to?


COUNSELOR: Yeah this is like that though. 


PATIENT: It's what the?


COUNSELOR: The 27th. Yeah. And that's 4:00.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Oh look they got me a new recorder because I have see if it has it's problems too. I don't know which way to look.


PATIENT: I was reading something about the - there's this very common one but - the cassette and it's got less of a problem. Like the enhancement would be that the tape and that's what I was studying - the tape. It does tend to pick up when you're just (inaudible at 54:28) (laughs) Thank you.


COUNSELOR: Thank you.


PATIENT: (inaudible at 54:32)


COUNSELOR: See you.


END TRANSCRIPT
