<font size="4"><b>Anxiety/Anger Management Training</b></font>

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Both anxiety and anger have serious effects on emotional
and physical health. High anxiety or stress may
reflect disorders such as generalized anxiety disorder
(GAD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or
phobic disorder. Even in reasonably healthy persons,
high stress can interfere with performance, such as
public speaking or sport performances. Academic
work can suffer when there is test anxiety, and reasonable
decision making can be difficult when a
person is under stress. In a similar way, high anger can
lead to negative behaviors culminating in violence
to others, self-injury, and even property breakage or
destruction. Child abuse and domestic or workplace
violence have become serious concerns of society.
Interestingly, both anxiety and anger have negative
physical health outcomes: High levels are associated
with vulnerability to diseases such as respiratory diseases
and heart disease and with higher mortality
rates. <i>Anxiety/anger management training</i> (AMT) is a
behavioral intervention that has proven effective for
diverse anxiety-based disorders as well as for anger
management. AMT is unique in being equally applicable
to focused anxiety, such as phobias or test/math/performance
anxieties, as well as general anxiety
conditions. Similarly, AMT is equally effective in
controlling anger that is directional and focused, as
well as generalized anger states.


Anxiety/anger management training (AMT) was
originally designed in the 1970s as brief behavioral
treatment for anxiety, an alternative to exposure or
psychotherapy approaches. Unlike exposure, AMT
trains the individual in relaxation to eliminate the
arousal from the exposure experience. The person
therefore has a coping skill to use to directly control
the anxiety-arousal state. Basically, relaxation is used
to deactivate the emotional arousal. The exposure part
of AMT is for the purpose of having the patient experience
the emotional arousal in order to practice eliminating
the arousal by use of relaxation skills.


AMT also systematically uses steps to increase
self-control and self-reliance aspects. Graduated
homework assignments assure transferring these skills
to real-life settings. The typical AMT session covers
six to eight structured sessions, beginning with relaxation
training. As the relaxation skill is acquired,
AMT sessions then use visualization to recall anxiety/anger,
followed by application of relaxation to
eliminate the arousal. As the patient demonstrates success,
further sessions direct the patient to be able to
identify behavioral or cognitive signs that reflect the
beginnings of anxiety/anger arousal. The patient is
then trained in initiating relaxation when these signs
are noted in order to abort the arousal before the anxiety/anger
escalates out of control. The total number
of sessions depends upon the rate of progress of the

[p. <i>12</i>]

In 1986, AMT was applied to anger management
as the similarities between anxiety and anger were
recognized. Both involve emotional arousal, involving
physiological changes (e.g., increased sweating during
anxiety or increased blood pressure during anger),
behavioral changes (e.g., anxious hand clenching or
angry verbal outbursts), cognitive changes (e.g., anxious
worries or angry thoughts), or subjective feelings
(e.g., of panic or blowing up). Both emotions are
experienced as powerful impulses that are disruptive
and appear out of control. Both emotions may remain
ambiguous, as in generalized anxiety or angry outbursts
that seem to occur unpredictably. Both can also
have a more specific focus: For anxiety, the focus can
be specific, such as in phobias; for anger, the focus
can also be specific, as in child abuse.


The AMT strategy uses imagery of a previous
experience to precipitate anxiety (or anger) arousal
during the session. But AMT does not stop with this
exposure; the person is then guided to applying relaxation,
using relaxation to deactivate the emotional
arousal. As control is gained, the individual is then
helped to identify personal physiological, behavioral,
or thought symptoms present when anxious/angry.
The person then learns to use the relaxation as soon as
such symptoms signal the beginning stages of anxiety
or anger arousal. In effect, such symptoms now
become useful cues to trigger the relaxation, thereby
aborting the arousal state before it gets out of control.


Each session is tailored to the progress of the individual.
Relaxation skills are taught early, and when
firmly in place, the arousal is prompted and the person
is firmly guided in reinstituting the relaxation until the
emotion is deactivated. As the individual's competence
and confidence increases, the individual assumes
more responsibility for initiating relaxation coping in
response to the arousal. Homework moves from practicing
relaxation in a quiet environment, to relaxing
outside the home (e.g., while riding in a bus/car), to
initiating the relaxation to deal with a minor stress (or
anger-associated) event, to initiating and maintaining
the relaxation control when engaging in a highly
stressful/anger-provoking experience. AMT can be
completed in six to eight 50-minute sessions.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


Research studies over 30 years have confirmed the
value of AMT for a variety of anxiety-associated
problems. These include generalized anxiety disorder,
phobic disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder,
hypertension associated with anxiety, pain exacerbated
by anxiety, and various types of performance
anxieties.


AMT has been more effective than no treatment,
relaxation training only, and placebo. AMT for phobic
conditions is as effective as desensitization, stress
inoculation training, or cognitive therapy. However,
the positive results of AMT are maintained over longterm
follow-up, such as 2 years, with individuals
reporting reduction of new anxieties not confronted in
the original AMT sessions. This suggests that AMT is
actually teaching a skill that is then being applied by
the individuals to cope with other stresses. In fact, an
important finding was that levels of self-confidence
increase following AMT. One study also found AMT
more beneficial than psychodynamic therapy for
GAD. AMT has also been found effective for both
anxiety-related problems and for anger control.


In contrast, desensitization is generally limited to
identifiable fears, does not transfer to new fears, and
is not designed for self-control training. Also, research
confirms that AMT can be delivered in either an individual
or a small-group setting.


When ancillary effects of AMT are examined,
results show an increase in self-confidence and self-esteem,
a decrease in negative thoughts (worries), and
an increase in positive thoughts. There is a small literature
demonstrating that AMT for anxiety can lead to
reduction in mild depressive symptoms. This may be
related to the increase in self-efficacy and the decrease
of negative-thought schemas.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET
POPULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS</b>


Although initially aimed at GAD patients, AMT has
proven effective for many conditions associated with
anxiety, such as phobic disorders, PTSD, anxious
persons facing stressful medical procedures, and
patients with physical disorders relating to stress, such
as essential hypertension or pain exacerbated by anxiety.

[p. <i>13</i>]

AMT also has been valuable in enhancing patients'
use of psychotherapy in a study of chronic schizophrenic
patients. Students suffering from test or mathematics
anxiety have received benefits from AMT.
Although no direct studies have involved ethnic
minority populations or children, indirect anecdotal
reports suggest AMT should be appropriate. For
instance, one research study reported that AMT was
useful with Japanese men in Japan, and AMT was
successfully incorporated in a stress management
workshop for minority adolescents.


Certain individuals may have difficulty progressing
in AMT. The ability to experience anxiety/anger
arousal is a foundation; an inability to experience this
arousal through imagery or recall of a prior event is a
problem for training. This can sometimes be handled
by determining the reason and resolving the obstacle,
for example, if trust in the therapeutic environment
needs strengthening or reassurances of safety are
needed. Reliance upon recent in vivo experiences can
be a solution.


Some individuals may prefer first wanting to identify
the situational, interpersonal, or psychodynamic
source of their anxiety/anger. AMT may appear to
these patients as irrelevant unless they are able to see
that emotions often prevent clarity of insight. It might
be necessary to explain that by using AMT to reduce
the emotion, the patient might be free to pursue core
issues. Research has reported that some clients are
better able to identify the source of their difficulties
after AMT reduces the intensity of their emotional
states. In some cases, once the anxiety/anger is under
control, individuals are more responsive to other
coping-skills training, such as conflict resolution or
communication skills.


<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


Some anxious patients experience an increase in anxiety
when introduced to relaxation training. This may
represent a fear of loss of control or a fear of unfamiliar
experiences. Such an effect is readily identified
during the first relaxation training through observation
of increase in muscle tension levels and reports of
heightened anxiety from the patient. One solution is to
provide the patient with greater control over each step
of relaxation training. Our preferred model for teaching
relaxation uses the progressive muscle relaxation
approach, whereby each muscle group is tensed, then
relaxed, while the patient notes the corresponding
change in experience. The AMT procedure involves
clearly instructing the patient in the procedure and its
goals, and identifying the exact muscle sequence (e.g.,
first the hands, then the upper arms, followed by the
forehead, etc.).


When relaxation precipitates anxiety, more time
should be taken to describe and explain the progressive
relaxation procedure. Furthermore, the patients
should be advised that they can stop at any stage for
questions. Patients are then asked, rather than told, to
try the tension/relaxation cycle with the first muscle
group in a familiarization step, then to do the upper
arm, and so on. Their cooperation is then sought to
again try the hands with their eyes closed and sitting
more comfortably. For highly fearful persons, they are
then asked to describe the sensations, and their readiness
to try the next muscle group is requested, and so
on. In each step, the therapist adopts the attitude that
the muscle tensing and relaxing is being attempted
more as a trial to learn about the procedure. By taking
such small steps to approximate actual training, discomfort
in patients can be controlled. Once such a
comfort level is achieved, then the entire muscle
relaxation procedures can be implemented.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Jeff" was raised in a rural community, with his being
accustomed to high personal independence and few
societal restrictions. Formal schooling imposed more
regulations and rules than he could tolerate, and he
was often sent home for problems with authority. In
adult years, the farm was sold to pay family bills, and
Jeff moved to the city to seek employment in construction.
He remained a social isolate, spending
evenings in a bar by himself. Fights with the foreman
over being told what to do were interspersed with
increasing episodes of violence and property damage.


Enlisting in the Marines, Jeff's quick temper and
aggression were channeled into boxing. Upon discharge,
he relied upon his ring experience to make a
minimal living on preliminary fight cards. However,
his fiery temper and uncontrolled physical violence
outside of the ring led to brief jail terms and a strain
on his finances. His manager counseled him to get a
tighter rein on his emotions and frustrations. They

[p. <i>14</i>]

The initial relaxation training went poorly; Jeff
resisted fully engaging in the relaxation and failed to
practice the technique. It became clear that his resistance
stemmed from his perceiving the psychologist
as once again someone telling him what to do and how
to behave. A less instructional tone and a more collaborative,
coaching approach was then adopted by
the psychologist, and time was taken to more thoroughly
explain AMT. AMT training use with Olympic
athletes was described, and the step-by-step procedure
of AMT was explained as being similar to learning
the fundamentals of boxing skills. This approach
improved Jeff's understanding and commitment.


In keeping with the collaborative/coaching orientation,
the psychologist began seeking Jeff's advice and
input, for instance, on what helped him relax other
than drinking. Jeff found Dolly Parton tapes helpful
and the positive ways his manager facilitated Jeff's
training. By the fourth session, muscle relaxation was
again initiated, interspersed with recall by Jeff of his
favorite Dolly Parton songs. Steps in each AMT session
were always introduced with "Typically, what we
would be doing today would be ..." along with the
reason, and followed with, "What do you think, are
you ready to try it out?" Feedback following each session
covered, "How do you think that went? Is there
some aspect we can improve on that would help?"


Anger arousal was achieved through recall and
visualization of a recent life event. The scene was: "I
was sitting in the Silver Star Bar, listening to Dolly,
and hearing someone talking about his shaping up his
kids, to do this, do that. I'm feeling the anger this produces
in me as I remember being pushed around in my
life. ... Then some other jerk says, "Hey, quite playing
that one song. ... I'm sick of it! I about blew
up ... like a steam boiler inside me pushing to
explode."


The AMT sessions would begin with relaxation,
then Jeff was invited to visualize being in this scene
and to allow himself to feel the buildup of anger. As
the arousal occurred, Jeff's physical appearance
would change; as his facial and neck muscle would
tense, a vein on his forehead would stand out, his
breathing would become more rapid and shallow, and
his hands would clench into fists. At this point, the
psychologist would suggest dismissing the scene and
instead concentrating on relaxing each muscle group,
step by step. The Dolly Parton imagery would also be
relied up to help Jeff let go of the anger arousal and
regain relaxation.


The progression from the first session to completion
was deliberately slower than is typical, as Jeff's
willingness to cooperate was continuously monitored.
Comparisons with boxing helped Jeff view AMT as a
type of physical skill training, and soon Jeff was fully
committed and eager to progress. He soon was viewing
AMT as a way of being in control of his body,
instead of his emotions controlling him, and he started
to talk about the benefits to his boxing if he fought
"more with smarts" and boxed "with control."


Homework assignments now included monitoring
his emotional state, especially in the bars. As a boxer,
he was used to paying attention to bodily condition
and now was learning to attend to his surroundings
and how they affected his emotions. He soon learned
to identify signs that he was being irritated or upset
and relied upon remaining calm by using relaxation or
replaying a Dolly Parton melody in his head. As he
put it, "Whenever I notice the steam in my boiler
building up, I just release it before it cooks over."


<i>Richard M. Suinn</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> Relaxation Strategies (Vol. I); Role Playing
(Vol. I); Social Effectiveness Training (Vol. I)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Deffenbacher, J. L., &amp; Stark, R. S. (1992). Relaxation and
cognitive-relaxation treatments of general anger. <i>Journal of
Counseling Psychology, 39</i>, 158-167.


Suinn, R. M. (1990). <i>Anxiety management training: A behavior
therapy</i>. New York: Plenum Press.


Suinn, R. M., &amp; Deffenbacher, J. L. (1988). Anxiety
management training. <i>The Counseling Psychologist, 16</i>,
31-49.

