TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: You made it. (chuckles)
CLIENT: Are we crazy? What the hell are we doing here? We're nuts.
THERAPIST: (laughter) Yeah, they just said a couple of poles cracked on this street.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's a whole bunch of stuff going on over there. I have never in my life been this drenched. Even in London.
THERAPIST: Awwww.
CLIENT: No, it's fun. I don't give a shit. It's fun. No, from the Starbucks in the Center to my car, which is not far, damn. It's awesome.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) It's awesome.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's kind of fun. I kind of like it. As long as nobody gets hurt or whatever. I like storms. It's kind of cozy and it's kind of fun.
THERAPIST: It's exciting.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: Exciting.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know, it's nature, you know? As long as no one is getting hurt, it's nice. (pause)
[00:01:14]
I had a restless day yesterday. I don't really like Sundays, but some Sundays are fine. They're just kind of whatever. But then some Sundays just drag. I get very restless. Yesterday was one of those. Between the weather and everything, I was just kind of like—- but, you know the amazing thing? I slept at 12:30.
THERAPIST: Went to sleep, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just turned off the computer and just went to sleep. It was kind of cool.
THERAPIST: Last night?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that's unusual these days?
CLIENT: Well, it's always unusual. I usually wait until I'm really sleepy, and then I go to bed. But last night I was kind of tired, whatever, but I could've stayed up but I didn't. Yeah, I'm just gonna, I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Which is also especially good from when you're having a day in that kind of mood, when you're like—- 
[00:02:09]
CLIENT: I think that's what it was. I was like, you know what, I'm just going to go to sleep, whatever. So the day is over and it will be tomorrow, whatever, you know. (pause) I think Cecelia helps with that. My cat really, I think, that's changed a lot. Like I wake up earlier. Sometimes I go back to bed, but I wake up earlier and I don't know. It's just so cozy. 
She's just so awesome that I kind of like to snuggle up with her and just go to sleep, you know? It's pretty neat. But I still kind of can't get over, like I'm used to her but I'm not. So it's like when she snuggles up, I'm just like what the fuck? It's just so weird, you know. She's so unusual. (pause) It's just like awesome. Especially when the weather is kind of shitty or whatever. It's just like all snuggy.
[00:03:10]
THERAPIST: [It sounds like a special feeling], to be cozy. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I've always liked that, even when I was little I liked that feeling of feeling cozy. That's why I love Thanksgiving and Christmas. A lot of people, you know, there's just that feeling. Maybe it's a New England thing, I don't know. 
But then when you have a pet, now I can understand why people, you know, they look forward to going home and just being with their pets (chuckles) and being at home. But yeah, hopefully this thing will be okay. We have a leak in my mom's dining room that we've had for years. That's the only thing that sucks. I hope it's—- it's bad. But, anyway. (pause) 
[00:04:04]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound quite as escapist yesterday. You're just more like "Well, I'll go to bed and I'll wake up tomorrow and it will be a new day."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: "I'm going to face the new day."
CLIENT: No, no, it wasn't at all. Like I got out of the house. I ran a bunch of errands. I got ready for the storm, whatever I could do. I got a bunch of snacks and stuff, whatever, necessities. Yeah, it was—- I mean, I wasn't necessarily in a bad mood. I think it was just, I mean, why wouldn't I be? I mean, the weather sucked and it's Sunday and I was kind of in a blah mood. It wasn't really bad, it was just kind of like I felt kind of tired and just kind of "eh." But yeah, I didn't think of it as some like "Oh, why do I feel this way?" 
THERAPIST: And it also didn't stop you in your tracks and sort of pull you away from life.
CLIENT: No, no, no.
THERAPIST: As even staying up can sometimes can be about, just trying to capture the cozy and hold onto it forever.
[00:05:05]
CLIENT: Plus, at this point, I know enough to know that—- because before it used to be because I hated school. It's a childhood thing. I would dread Monday mornings.
THERAPIST: I was wondering.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's an old thing. I mean, there's really no reason to hate Sundays, you know. It's just—- so now, obviously, there's no reason—- I mean, I work from home. Every day is the same day, you know. So maybe on the one hand, that makes me feel better. On the other hand, working from home, you know, it's like you're alone a lot. You know, even if you go out to Starbucks, you know. I think that's kind of the restless, you know. (pause) Yeah, but it was good. It was fine. Then Saturday I went to—- remember that girl Penny I told you about?
THERAPIST: Mmmm-hmmm.
[00:06:00]
CLIENT: I went to her Halloween party, which I wasn't going to go to. But I went and it was totally nice, you know? Stayed for a while. I had a name tag that just said—- for some reason, she had a theme. I don't know why. So I just bought a name tag and I put it on and it just said "a guy who lived in England." Pretty cool, fun. Which I never do, I don't dress—- I don't really like Halloween. 
But it was really nice, went there, had a couple snacks, talked to some people and left. Whatever. It was nice. And it also felt good because I was kind of feeling stressed because I wanted to go see my friend's band. And then I was like, you know what? I'm not going to do that. I'm here now. It already took energy to come here. I don't want to now go to the Square, you know? It was cool. 
[00:06:55]
Then I noticed, talking to people at the party, it's also when I notice myself so differently now. You know what I mean? I was just comfortable and mellow and much more, something. Articulate or something. Not articulate. I don't know, whatever. Honest. Whatever you want to call it. So that was cool.
THERAPIST: Much more comfortable with yourself, it sounds like.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Just being yourself.
CLIENT: Yep. So it was cool. (pause)
THERAPIST: Sunday nights are when you—- school.
CLIENT: I think Sundays are always where people don't make a lot of plans. Sundays, you know, everyone—- I've always hated that collective like "Oh, it's Sunday, got to get home early." There's something about—- because it taints the city, kind of. Things close at a certain time. I've just never liked that. I like hustle and bustle all the time. 
[00:08:06]
It's one thing about that that I find very comforting. People are just out and about doing things, you know? But when it gets so quiet so early and just, I don't know. I'm just like—- 
THERAPIST: Sunday is a day of rest.
CLIENT: It's like so suburban, kind of. "Oh, watch our TV shows and go to bed early." I don't know. Just something about it. But yeah, obviously, that doesn't make any—- I mean, it's just because I used to hate going to school.
THERAPIST: Well, there's a juxtaposition of hating that, but also you're talking about loving being home, being cozy.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I like being cozy when I know it's either something like this, or I like being cozy when I know other people are still out. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Mmmm-hmmm.
CLIENT: Saturday night, Friday night, any other night when I know there's just stuff, it's just a regular night. Sunday is so—- I guess just because we all think of it as a special day of resting, like you said. There's something about that I just—- 
[00:09:12]
But I don't, you know, like it's just that I hated going to school so much that it's just ingrained in me. I just dreaded it.
THERAPIST: You really did.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: You mean, being down in South Carolina?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, even here a little bit. I didn't hate it as much, but yeah, I just dreaded it. Here was more normal, like the way any kid dreads Monday morning. But yeah, in South Carolina, it was like a serious problem. Unusual.
THERAPIST: Would you say that out loud to your parents?
CLIENT: Well, I'd just throw tantrums, yeah.
THERAPIST: On Sunday night or Monday morning? What would trigger—- 
CLIENT: I mean, I don't remember if it was Monday morning but in general I hated it, so it could've been any day of the week. I would just—- I think it was every day almost, basically. I would just try not to go to school, I think.
THERAPIST: Wow.
[00:10:04]
CLIENT: To the point where I'm pretty sure there was one time where my dad would literally put me over his shoulder, and I was like kicking and screaming.
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness.
CLIENT: Yeah, oh yeah. Second grade, maybe? Something like that. First, second, maybe even up to the third grade. I don't know. But definitely first, second grade for sure.
THERAPIST: So you were in a lot of pain.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I don't know why I hated it so much.
THERAPIST: What do you remember?
CLIENT: Nothing. I just remember that I hated it. 
THERAPIST: What did you hate?
CLIENT: I have no idea. That's the thing, I don't know. The school was fine, you know. Kids were nice. Teachers were nice. I remember even in the first grade, the teacher, I think she was a nun who taught that, I think they prayed for me in class or something, during the morning prayer or something. Something about like, you know, "so that he'll be happy here and know that we are happy that he's here," or something like that.
[00:11:08]
I don't know what it was. I don't know if it was a cultural thing, maybe. I wasn't understanding them or something? I was homesick for Boston and my extended family? Maybe like a combination of all these things. Because I had an English tutor all through the fourth grade. Maybe I was having trouble with reading and comprehending, I don't know.
THERAPIST: So you grew up speaking Assyrian, only Assyrian, early on.
CLIENT: Yep. Well, still. We only speak Assyrian.
THERAPIST: Do your parents, did they speak English?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I mean, yeah, my mom—- 
THERAPIST: Some or fluidly?
CLIENT: Very proficiently, yeah. The things that they don't know are like, you know, in-jokes, cultural, things like that. But in terms of just communicating, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And would they speak it in your home?
[00:12:03]
CLIENT: No, no, no, never.
THERAPIST: Never.
CLIENT: Never, never, never. To the point—- 
THERAPIST: You only had to learn it in school, right?
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: To the point where even now, I would find it very odd to speak to my mom in English. It would be very uncomfortable to me. (pause) So I think that might have had—- culturally and language-wise, both—- I think I just probably felt a weird shock, maybe.
THERAPIST: That's huge.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: [That's huge].
CLIENT: Especially because it's not here where there would have been other Assyrian kids in the public school or whatever. I probably just felt really weird and something. Even if everyone was nice, I probably just didn't understand, you know. And my parents were just kind of stupid and naive, like they just didn't think that this was a big deal, you know?
THERAPIST: Even when it was kind of in their face, kicking and screaming out the door.
[00:13:08]
CLIENT: Yeah, a typical—- I think they just took it as "Grow up, it's school, you'll get used to it." Just typical kind of old-school stuff, you know? Now the weird—- 
THERAPIST: But it's not typical, you know?
CLIENT: My stuff wasn't typical. I'm saying their reaction, I think, is typical. Even though, on the other hand, I was in the school band. I was, you know, I was never picked on. It was just a weird thing for me. I played trumpet in the school band. There were no other major issues. I wasn't very good at math, but I'm just not good at math, you know. I don't know. The teachers were nice to me. Everybody was nice.
THERAPIST: You don't remember having a bad teacher? Some were scary—- 
CLIENT: Well, I do remember that one math—- Mrs. Easter. She kind of really embarrassed me in class once, like in third grade, and that felt really shitty. But that was third grade at that point, I think.
[00:14:14]
THERAPIST: What did she do?
CLIENT: I didn't understand the difference between minus and difference. I didn't know difference means minus, so she kind of—- I don't know what she did. But I just remember I felt really really embarrassed, you know. I was awful at math. I still am. I didn't understand word problems. I don't have that kind of logic, and I still don't.
THERAPIST: Even in Assyrian? You think that's—- 
CLIENT: Oh, that doesn't matter, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like even now, I just do not understand fractions. I'm just bad at that stuff. My brain doesn't seem to—- although, I'm a musician. I think it's because I'm self-taught. Musicians who were taught music, I think, become kind of mathematical. But I just don't have that. I don't understand that kind of logic, you know. It's weird. So I would already be very scared of math stuff. So I remember that particular moment. She called on me, I didn't understand, and I felt really embarrassed.
[00:15:16]
THERAPIST: And did she say something that was mean?
CLIENT: It just seemed mean, probably. I think she said something like "Oh, how could you not know that difference is the same as minus? Everyone knows that" or something like that. I don't even know if that's what she—- she could've said nothing, but maybe I was just so shy and I just felt—- 
THERAPIST: [It's just like not knowing on the spot.]
CLIENT: Yeah. But it's not like I remember the other kids making fun of me or laughing. I was just so shy, and I felt so out of place, maybe.
THERAPIST: You weren't teased or—- (voices overlapping)
CLIENT: No, no, I was invited to kids' birthday parties. But even that, I would feel very—- I would go, but it felt weird. I just felt weird. (pause) 
[00:16:07]
Probably because my parents felt weird, I guess. I mean, they were kind of trying to—- like "Okay, he has—-" but at the same time, I was by default being raised to not be AmMatthewan, really. So it's like, which is it?
THERAPIST: [It just seems like it was so many—-]
CLIENT: Yeah, probably, yeah. Well, no, I was.
THERAPIST: Even at school.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: It's not like you could go to school and hang out with your friends and—- 
CLIENT: I mean, I did, but I never felt, you know.
THERAPIST: It didn't feel that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it continued all the way through even the first year of college. It was only like when I got to college that I finally made like real friends. And even then, I felt a little, you know, I had low self esteem, I thought I was ugly, blah blah blah. 
[00:17:05]
But at least I was making real friends, and I understood that they were really my friends. It wasn't like some kind of—- whereas up to that point, I didn't even get that people really liked me and wanted to hang out with me. I didn't get it. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You sound like you were already so trapped in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: From such a young age, you went inside and were tortured inside, even though things were fine.
CLIENT: Right, right. 
THERAPIST: Sometimes that's a kid who does get teased and tortured, but that wasn't even happening.
CLIENT: No, no, it's weird. Yeah, it wasn't. I mean, because on the outside, we had a beautiful apartment. My mom had an awesome job. I mean, things were actually good in that way. Materially, that was probably the most comfortable years. It was a very good private school, and I never had a problem.
[00:18:08]
THERAPIST: It was as private school?
CLIENT: I went to a Catholic school until college. (pause) You know, my parents were—- you know, again, it's that immigrant "private school is better." And maybe in some ways it was, I don't know. (pause) 
So, yeah, I mean on the surface—- I wasn't a clumsy kid. I wasn't a dork, per se. I loved sports. I played soccer. I made South Carolina all-state soccer when I was a young kid. Trumpet, schmumpet, whatever. All that crap. I played out in the yard after school with all the black kids and Filipino kids. I don't know. But somehow—- (pause) Yeah, it's crazy. My best friend was this black kid named Jordan.
[00:19:08]
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah, and we became friends because we got into a fight and he punched me in the chest and knocked the wind out of me. Then he kind of got scared. We were nine or something. (chuckles) And then he was like "Oh no" and then we became friends. (pause) It's weird.
THERAPIST: You got into a fight [at nine?]
CLIENT: I got into a few fights back then, yeah. It was a big apartment complex. There was gaggles of kids, you know. I mean, it was bound to happen. One time it wasn't really a fight. One time I got—- me and my Filipino friend—- these two kind of rednecky kids threw rocks at me. It was during the Iran hostage thing, so I was what, seven, eight. And they didn't know what Assyrian was, and they thought I was Iranian or whatever. They literally threw rocks at me.
[00:20:11]
Yeah. They started calling him a gook and shit, yeah. And we hid in the slide. The slide was like a big mushroom or something where you went in and then climbed out, so the rocks were banging against the—- (laughter)
THERAPIST: Awwwwwww. You said "we." Were you—- 
CLIENT: Me and Duane, yeah. So, yeah. (pause) So, yeah. But even then, you know, that was a funny—- I try to write about that, but it's always weird. I don't know how to write about it without—- it just seems so kind of sappy and one of these typical stories. 
But they were like "what are you?" or something, and I remember I said (chuckles) I didn't understand what that meant. Like, "what are you?" I said "I don't know, I'm from up North." (chuckles) I remember saying—- they were like "What are you, like an Iranian or something?" It was like what, I don't know what that—- in my mind, I didn't understand what they were saying. I was like "No, I'm from New England." (laughter) So I didn't understand what was happening, you know? 
[00:21:22]
THERAPIST: It's like another layer of feeling on the outside of even the experience of being alienated.
CLIENT: Well, that was the first time I understood that oh, okay, so I am—- something is different. I mean, it was all subconscious, of course. But there must've been something that I was, like clearly I'm not like my friends. (pause) So yeah. Another time I got into a fight where I lost my temper and I kind of won the fight. (chuckles) But yeah, it wasn't much. I guess it was three times. And the second one is not really a fight. It's a hate crime, I guess. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: All three are scary.
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah, I don't really remember—- really only the rocks, that one is scary. But when I think of the other two, I—- they're just kids', boys' fights. That's going to happen.
[00:22:27]
THERAPIST: And they're not scary, just because they're boys' fights?
CLIENT: You mean, when I think of them or at the time?
THERAPIST: At the time.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I guess I don't—- I mean, they were, but I think of them as well, that is what happens in pretty much every kid's life. And they weren't like really—- there's like no blood, there's no—- they're just skirmishes, you know what I mean? Pushing and just mouthing off and then nothing happens, or a little wrestling or some shit. (pause) Yeah, I think it would be different if it was like high school and there's like punching in the face, you know. That's, I think, pretty crazy stuff. (pause)
But the rocks, I mean, that's fucked up. I mean, first of all we could've been seriously injured. But second of all, when you're a kid, you don't understand what's going on. That's a fucked up thing, you know? 
[00:23:26]
And I remember that I wasn't crying but Duane was, and I was trying to kind of comfort him. I don't remember what I was doing, but I just remember I was trying to make him stop crying, you know? Because in a weird way, they didn't call me any names. They called him names. It started because of me, and I think they were clearly throwing rocks at me, but they weren't calling me whatever you call Persians, I don't know. They were calling him like "gook" and shit like that. (pause)
But yeah, it's weird. I remember going to a picnic with his family, this like Filipino picnic. Like I don't even—- again, it's all just like a fog. So clearly I was doing stuff. 
[00:24:20]
I'd go sledding, once in a while. It was a big deal if we got snow, you know. So we'd go sledding. We'd just take cardboard boxes and just sit on them and go flying down the hill. I don't know. (pause) I did stuff, but—- (pause) 
THERAPIST: But he, maybe, felt like an outsider too, and you're bonding with someone who—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, the people in the building, like that's something I think in a weird way that helped me. When I went to school, I felt like a total outsider, even though it was all in my head. But when I came home for some reason, you know, black kids, Filipino kids, I somehow felt like alright.
THERAPIST: I was wondering if that felt like—- 
CLIENT: And no one asked me anything. I don't remember ever talking about like "where's your family from?" I don't know, anything. We just played. We had our Nerf football and we played tag football every single day, or whatever it was.
[00:25:29]
There was never—- and I somehow never cared that Jordan was, like it didn't—- I was like "oh, he's a black"—- for some reason, I never thought of any of these kids as weird or different. Which I'm really grateful for because my family is very prejudiced, so somehow I never had that. 
THERAPIST: Well, in fact, even if it's unconscious, it sounds like you ended up feeling more at home, like less like an outsider.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: With a community of people who had lots of differences going on.
CLIENT: Right, right. 
THERAPIST: You could feel like you fit in with a different crowd.
CLIENT: Yep, yeah. Like I remember being in Jordan's house—- and I don't know why it would be in the mornings. I don't know if we went to school together. I don't know if he went to the same school. I don't know what it was. But I remember being in their apartment and his mom—- it was clearly different. It was a black family. (chuckles) 
[00:26:23]
And his mom, every morning, would put cream on his face, like Vaseline. I think it was actually Vaseline. And she would like rub it into his little face and I'd be like "what is that?" And then years later I found out that whatever, I guess some black people, they get drier or something. I don't know, whatever. 
But I never felt like "oh, ugh." I was like "Alright, that's the thing he does every single time I'm here, alright." And the same with Duane, like their weird Filipino food or whatever. We used to make Wonder bread sandwiches with bacon and the sushi seaweed paper. But I didn't care. It was fucking delicious. I wasn't like "Eww, what is that?" (pause)
[00:27:37]
I mean, I never thought about this but Jesus, I mean in a weird way, that's traumatic too. Then to leave that group of friends when you're like 12 or 13 and move back here where you don't have any. I mean, I loved it here but I didn't have—- 
THERAPIST: You had to start over, all over again.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I've never thought about that. It's interesting. Yeah, on some level—- at the time it somehow didn't bother me, but it had to have some kind of impact. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You were doing your best to put together a home down there.
CLIENT: Yeah, and the thing is, if we had stayed there, those were going to be my childhood friends that I was going to grow up with. If they stuck around, you know.
[00:28:35]
We'd sneak over—- we weren't allowed to cross, there was a pretty big street on one side. It was fucking huge. So I wasn't allowed to cross. But on the other side there was a Pizza Hut, 7-11, you know. So we'd sneak over there and buy baseball cards and Twinkies. Like, we did stuff. You know, like we did the stuff you do when you're—- so that stuff was all normal and fun. (pause) 
[00:29:28]
THERAPIST: You're describing, in a way, getting to be a boy, do boy things—-
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —- with them and not feeling that at school and not feeling that at home so much.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: There's this little microcosm where that actually happened.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then got taken away again.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although it was my fault. I wanted to come back here, you know. 
THERAPIST: I'm so struck by that. You said that, in the last time we talked about the decision to come back up, that it was kind of almost your decision.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You really think so?
CLIENT: Well, I'm saying "decision," but I mean, I definitely was a big part of that, you know. I think we all—- except maybe my dad. I think my dad would've been okay staying down there (chuckles) because of the distance from her family, and he had good friends down there and stuff. But I think my mom and, you know. I don't know.
[00:30:33]
I think it couldn't have been that easy for my mom either, you know. Everyone is here. There's no one to help take care of me. Like that's one thing I do know. My mom has talked about that, that it used to really bother her that there was no one when I came home from school, and that I spent a lot of time alone and there was no family to, you know. I know that bothered—- and I'm sure my dad too. So I think for my mom, she wanted to come back and be around her family. And for my dad, I think he probably sucked it up because of my mom and also I think he also thought, you know, his cousin, there's no—- there's just him. I mean, I don't know. (pause)
[00:32:09]
But yeah, I don't know. (pause) I mean, on the other hand, there were a lot of good memories from down there. Every Friday we'd go to dinner to like Pizza Hut or fucking somewhere. And like on the weekends, I think on Sundays, like I'd wrestle with my dad. I'd just show up in their bedroom and just, you know. Like, you know, there was fun stuff. (pause) 
Or going to visit my mom at work. It was fucking awesome, when you're little and saw this clearance and all this shit, and I could go and press—- I'd see her behind the booth and you could press a button and just hear. Like shit like that is like wow, it's cool, you know? (pause)
[00:33:17]
But I think, you know, that's the thing. That's why I would never have just one kid. I think sometimes, you know, if you're an only child and on top of that you're sensitive and whatever, that's just a cluster fuck. Because things can be so good on the outside, but, you know, you just don't have someone other than a parent to kind of grow up with, you know. I think it would've been totally totally different. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It's an awful lot of layers of aloneness.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Even with your parents working, if you were coming home with a sister or brother—- 
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
THERAPIST: —- as company.
CLIENT: Plus, I think it's a lot harder to be shy when you have a sibling. Because they just draw you—- you draw each other out a little bit, you know? You've got each other's back, you know. I mean, not all siblings but I think in general, you know. (pause)
[00:34:35]
THERAPIST: Would you think about that even then?
CLIENT: I don't remember. I don't think I thought about it much until my dad died. When something like that happens, you're like fuck, it's weird. Or now, even now I'm like Jesus, when my mom dies, that's weird. Like that's kind of it. It's kind of weird, you know. It makes me sad, you know. I'm lucky with my whole family and my extended family, we're very tight, but you know, there's something about that that's really weird. (pause) 
[00:35:22]
Then I've thought the opposite, like well, I don't have any issues. My mom had issues with her sisters. So many people I know have weird—- either they have issues with their siblings or they're just not close. I have a lot of friends who are like "Oh yeah, I've got a brother in Oklahoma." It just seems so cold, a little bit.
THERAPIST: It's hard to imagine that would've been you. Not close.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. No, definitely, especially the way my dad's side is, yeah. I mean, my mom's side is very close too, but because I'm a lot like my—- you know, just happy—- not happy-go-lucky, but I think there would've been a lot of laughing and joking around and, you know, fun. (pause) 
But I think that's why I love it here. I feel like alright, that is my family. I'm lucky I have so many amazing friends and family and for me, that's important, you know? (long pause)
[00:36:58]
THERAPIST: I was just thinking you come here now on Mondays. That's official.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's awesome.
THERAPIST: That's a different connotation of Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's awesome.
THERAPIST: [Like never before].
CLIENT: Hmmm-mmmm.
THERAPIST: You could take (inaudible at 00:37:10), but it's good for now.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: It feels good for now. It means like it's a good thing to look forward to.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, it's awesome. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not like going to school.
CLIENT: Hell no. No, no, no. Even when I was working, I didn't really feel that because I haven't really had a shitty job where I'm like "Oh, I fucking hate—-" I mean, here maybe I felt that when I realized that I didn't like teaching anymore. But even that, that was like, whatever. No, there hasn't been—- but yeah, this actually is like even something to look forward to, so that's cool.
THERAPIST: I was thinking that as you said you actually could go to bed last night and then you know you'd wake up and it would be Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah.
[00:37:59]
THERAPIST: It's not that you felt the intense dread, I think, for some time. But you have talked about Sundays being a hard day off and on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: With some angst kind of hanging over the whole day.
CLIENT: Right, right. I just get jittery. I get like, I don't know.
THERAPIST: And then Sunday nights would be often the day of any day of the week that you would stay up really late.
CLIENT: Yep, yep. (pause)
THERAPIST: There might have been a time where coming here felt like going to school. I don't know if you remember—- 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —- a little while back when you were here a bunch of Mondays.
CLIENT: Yep, yep.
THERAPIST: Maybe three or four Mondays in a row.
CLIENT: Yep, yep.
THERAPIST: Where it could become like a place where you have to go—- 
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: —- feel evermore like an outsider.
CLIENT: Kind of like pressure, yeah.
[00:39:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. Like that you'd rather just hide yourself away—- 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —- than even go there.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But it's not like it feels like that at all.
CLIENT: No, not at all.
THERAPIST: Like when you're feeling on top of stuff and you can actually come here and it's going to feel like community in a way.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Like Jordan.
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Yeah, because I think before, it wasn't just coming here. Everything was feeling—- I was avoiding a lot of things, you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. (pause) And that desire to do that, I think, has been there for so long. I mean, you can't not go to school, right? The adults are going to force you to go to school, but if you had your own choice about it, it sounds like you wouldn't have gone.
[00:40:00]
CLIENT: Absolutely, yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you were already trying to get away from something—- 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —- that was painful. Alienation that you're not doing it as much.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean even going to that party. I could've just not gone.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I had no problems staying home that night, but I was like you know what? I'm just going to go. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: (pause) And there also didn't sound like there was a very prominent woman, girl, dating reason why to get yourself out.
CLIENT: Oh, no.
THERAPIST: It's not like there's nothing ever, but that wasn't the only motivation.
CLIENT: And I didn't even think about that. I wasn't like "Oh, maybe there will be chicks there." No, not at all.
THERAPIST: Right, right. (pause) What are you thinking?
[00:41:12]
CLIENT: I was thinking Matthew—- my friend Matthew is actually going to go out maybe with—- remember I was saying the girls at that bar, that bad night?
THERAPIST: Yep, yep.
CLIENT: So Matthew is actually going to go out with the friend. (chuckles) So that's going to be interesting.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: So I don't know. We'll see what happens. (pause) Which I'm glad—- so that means I (inaudible at 00:41:39), like I'm not going to—- see, that's what friends do.
THERAPIST: I remember you saying that. You're not going to trust that—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's great, she seemed like a nice girl. 
THERAPIST: But? Is there a but?
CLIENT: No, no, no. There's no but. I'm just saying it will be interesting if that means I might deal with the other friend again or whatever, you know.
[00:42:05]
THERAPIST: Paige?
CLIENT: Yep. It will be interesting. It might be good to kind of, not clear the air, but just kind of—- (pause) Have an uneventful run-in. (pause) Or to actually tell her (chuckles) that she was kind of weird or hurt my feelings. (long pause)
[00:43:42]
THERAPIST: Where did you go?
CLIENT: No, I was just thinking about today too. I don't know. It's been nice. I just get up and I get out of the house and go to the Starbucks. It feels good to have that routine. And I noticed that when I'm there, I'm not thinking too much. Like I'm not dwelling on anything in particular, so that's good. (long pause)
[00:44:49]
THERAPIST: Thursday.
CLIENT: Okay. 12:50.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Stay safe.
CLIENT: Yeah, you too (chuckles). 
THERAPIST: I hope you get home safely.
CLIENT: Stay dry.
END TRANSCRIPT
