TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 12. Interview 12. Interview 12. 
CLIENT: I just have to catch my breath too, I walked in, right.
COUNSELOR: I have to refocus my eyes right. My glasses are broken so I couldn't wear them.
CLIENT: Oh well. Well, things went very well over the weekend.
COUNSELOR: You sound surprised.
CLIENT: No, I wasn't surprised. Well, maybe I was you know. But I don't know. But they did go fairly well and I don't know that I really have anything to say about that. Yesterday Don and I both went to speak to the woman who had been referred to you. And that proved to be a very, very good experience. I found myself, Don was probably really good in the sense of not really, if he'd made a decision on how he felt then he kept much of it to himself and felt the need to support what I might decide. I have a feeling that he was you know, wavering in a lot of ways too. And was, you know I felt like he was being pretty sensitive to try to feel how I felt. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kinda bringing the sense that like being sensitive and I guess appreciating that it's really your decision and kinda being sensitive and kinda accommodating to really go with that. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I think before he came you know I felt I wasn't sure how much it was my decision. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
CLIENT: You know or how much I wanted someone else to make it for me kind of thing. And he very much, didn't place it on me but made me feel comfortable and made me realize that, you know, I 'm the one that carries the burden either way far more than he probably does. 0:02:16.1
COUNSELOR: That's why you feel lousy, someone's decided for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. And yesterday Stephanie was very good. You know I felt like she brought some really important issues and didn't really attempt to make a decision either. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But you know one of the things she said was that she felt like Gary probably suggested I talk to her because, I know Gary leanings are toward having a child you know.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Rather than having an abortion. 
CLIENT: And you know she suspected that whether it was conscious level or not he knew that I should probably talk to someone who wasn't..
COUNSELOR: Have a bias. 
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like he could give you his bit but temper it with a go see, go see. 0:03:04.2
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And I mean I don't think he attempted to, you know I didn't talk to him with an intention of helping to decide but needing someone to talk to. And he recognized that and he also recognized that I probably ought to talk to somebody who wasn't intricately involved in order to get some perspective on what to do. Well as a result of yesterday, I've decided that I'd have an abortion. And I feel very comfortable about it, that decision. 0:03:33.6
(telephone rings) - Go ahead.
COUNSELOR:-Hello? Hi. Look can I call you back at three. I'm seeing a client. I forgot to turn off my phone. Ok, I'll call you at three. Bye-bye. Sorry. I usually always turn off my phone.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's the thing when I call down or when I call up, that's the ..
CLIENT: Signal for you. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Signal that I do to make, that as soon as they do that call or get the call I turn off the phone. Now I realize what, I feel very jarred. You were saying you feel comfortable. 0:04:15.7
CLIENT: Yeah, I really do. I guess one of the biggest fears that I had about deciding to do that was you know whether it would carry ramifications, you know, way into the future that are totally unknown. And one of the things that Stephanie pointed out was actually that comes kinda from an old world feeling about abortion. You know that they're immoral and all this kind of crap.
COUNSELOR: Right, the murderer.
CLIENT: Yeah. And backroom kind of stuff. And there's no need to really do it that way at all. So that was decided and I had one contact and she had had another. And mine didn't turn out to be as fruitful as it had been as when I used it for somebody else. 0:05:07.3
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. So where are you now.
CLIENT: So where I'm at now is becoming very anxious. But I couldn't reach Stephanie today to get what her connection was. And what I ended up doing today, well what I ended up doing last night was calling Women's Lib. That was sorta the connection I had before but it was a more personal connection. 
COUNSELOR: It wasn't from the organization but someone within it or something. 
CLIENT: Right. Who I knew through another friend who was very helpful and much better than getting a recording and having to wait for a reply on that. Well they haven't called back and I haven't yet reached Stephanie. And I finally got through to the gynecology clinic and have an appointment Wednesday which will, if nothing else tell, you know, what let me know how long pregnant I am. And I don't think I'm any, I can't, I don't think I can be possibly any longer than beginning the ninth week, so. And it's more than likely that it's probably the seventh or eighth week. 0:06:09.3
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. You have a sense you may be kinda really anxious to be through the same. 
CLIENT: Yeah, like I want to get at connection made so I'm set with it knowing when I'm going to do this. 
COUNSELOR: Kinda like you know, you know it's ahead of you and there it is. It's like you won't be through it but you will be on your way. 
CLIENT: Yeah I just really going out of my tree today just because I don't know. And I figure..
COUNSELOR: Yeah the finding. It's like now you know you want it but finding the means for it. 
CLIENT: So I finally got through to the clergyman's thing. 
COUNSELOR: They council on abortion? 
CLIENT: Yeah, their consultation service. And I have an appointment to see a guy Thursday morning. I don't know what, the thing is I don't need, like I don't feel like I need to go through any more counseling crap. You know I've made a decision. I made it. And I thought it out very carefully. You know? And I don't.. 0:07:03.0
COUNSELOR: You've done all the right things. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Now you want a name. 
CLIENT: Yeah I just want a connection, you know. Well and Stephanie thought maybe I can get a connection to Kansas.
COUNSELOR: Is it legal there or is it?
CLIENT: Yeah it's legal there. And it would probably be cheaper to go to Kansas than to New York. Now this guy said that there were more complications. 
COUNSELOR: In Kansas?
CLIENT: Yeah. They may have sorta like a clause where you have to have..
COUNSELOR: About out of state people (inaudible at 0:07:29.9)
CLIENT: Yeah. So I have to wait. You know like I now have to just wait until Wednesday and Thursday. Unless Stephanie comes up with something. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. And Women's Lib didn't bear fruit?
CLIENT: They haven't called me back yet. They have a recording. You have to leave your name and telephone number and when you can be reached. But they haven't returned the call yet. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Kinda a hot line. But I don't know when I'll hear from them. They should call by tonight, you know. 0:08:00.5
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: And then I, you know I guess it's just very uncomfortable to have to wait until Wednesday and Thursday. I can't go, you know like I can't make the contact with the clergyman's thing until I have the verification of pregnancy and how long I'm pregnant. Which means that that can't be done until after Wednesday afternoon. Which reminds me that the appointment's at 1:30.
COUNSELOR: Oh, ours.. 
CLIENT: Yeah and ours is at 2:15. I don't how long these things take. 
COUNSELOR: Well we can, let's see. 
CLIENT: What I'd thought of, let me see what..
COUNSELOR: We can, if it's, I'll be in a class.
CLIENT: Well what I'd like to do is maybe we can get together Friday again instead of Wednesday. 
COUNSELOR: Instead of Wednesday. Yeah. That'll be..
CLIENT: You know I guess I'll feel more of a need to see where I'm at with things then, you know?
COUNSELOR: Umm hmm. More rested. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Or just beginning hopefully to tie it up.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I feel like I ought to be leaving town this weekend or the following weekend. Hopefully we can get that all out of the way. I don't know. But it's funny. Like yesterday you know after, I felt very strong and very kinda together after having spent some time with Stephanie and Don being there was a good thing that I wasn't sure it was going to be. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
CLIENT: And what's so, you know as though I had been you know emotional at one point and very rational and put all this together..
COUNSELOR: And here you are kinda feeling strong. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Really, you know. 
COUNSELOR: It's kinda like not just irrational but ok, you had your emotional period and you were able to think about it and kinda get through it and decide what you want and it all you know and think about where you were almost a week ago. 0:10:03.0
CLIENT: Yeah. Less than that. 
COUNSELOR: It's just kinda like you've been through a lot but you've come out with your head feeling all the more stronger for it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I also feel good about, you know that sometimes I guess I wonder if one oughtn't to carry emotions through an experience kinda like this. And I, but I really, I guess what I came to recognizing was I really had the, you know the real slam in the face thing hit me and I went through that. I didn't feel bad that I no longer had to cry or had to be very upset about it, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And I can still feel stupid, you know, about it. Not as severely upset. 0:10:57.2
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: I guess I've also made a recognition that it wasn't such a stupid thing that happened. Or that it was like more ignorance. 
COUNSELOR: Right. It was kinda operating on misinformation but you know, taking misinformation. It was kinda like you didn't know. You were acting on what you did know. 
CLIENT: And it seems as though, you know like I asked Don about it because, you know like I guess I had still a little bit of latent anger with it. If he'd really wondered how good a diagnosis the doctor had made some time ago. But the doctor that he'd been to you know, really gave him the impression that he wasn't about to make anybody pregnant, you know. And you know it was funny that I didn't really realize this over the weekend. But you know he came with rather good news in the sense that he's no longer sterile here. And I guess I never really responded to that in a positive way. 0:12:08.1
COUNSELOR: Right it was kinda like you know, it's [the boy] (ph) because obviously he's sterile. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you know what it means in terms of good things sometimes in the future then it's a nice thing. I mean it's true say you felt ok about adopting kids but I guess it feels kinda, he feels kinda good. 
CLIENT: Yeah he's ecstatic. You know he feels really good. And I guess that's another determining point about having the abortion is that you know, I have strong feelings about having one child. And you know if we have other children they'd be adopted, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I, you know the feeling is that both of us are pretty confident about the fact that we'll have children. And I, you know it's like why have it now when it's the most inconvenient of times. 0:12:59.0
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kinda like what you were saying just last week where it was just a fluke. And you might regret that. He might regret that after the experience kind that's not really a variable now.
CLIENT: Yeah it was a point made you know, that I guess I thought Stephanie was very careful about it. That you have to be very confident about the fact that you're going to be able to have children because it can carry a lot of feelings if you have an abortion now and then you can't. 
COUNSELOR: Find you can't. 
CLIENT: But both of us felt pretty good about the other. And you know what? You know what we thought? As a positive. 
COUNSELOR: I guess it disappointed Jimmy that you had two kinds of proof that led you to Dr. Heigel so we had you. 
CLIENT: Yeah, right. Living specimen of proof. (laughing) Yeah, yeah. Which you know which make it..0:13:58.9
COUNSELOR: Makes the abortion just kinda seem, you know just kinda another thing that's working against that's kinda (inaudible at 0:14:09.1)
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Have to be taken into account.
CLIENT: Yeah. I, you know as I as walking over I just talked to the guy at this church before I came here and I guess I don't like the thought of going to New York. Part of that is that a friend of mine had an abortion in New York before it was legal and was backdoor kinda crap. And not very good. And I guess it's sorta bewildering considering this huge, huge city. 
COUNSELOR: It's huge.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know what kind of connections they make. And I, whether somebody will be able to meet me. And I don't, I don't think I know anybody who's living in the city right then. 0:15:03.2
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess it's kinda a combination of you looking into abortions and actually doing it, but it's still something. But you don't want to feel lost and you know kinda blowing in the wind your like going to this big gigantic city.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: That's kinda more psychological feeling to it, you know.
CLIENT: It is. Don talked about coming with but you know he hasn't got, I don't think he can get enough money to go. I don't have enough money to take both of us to New York and pay for an abortion. So I guess, well I don't know. Maybe I'm being premature you know in that if I feel that the support I have before I leave provides strong reinforcement that it will carry over by the time I get there and can come back.
COUNSELOR: No but I can sure see that. I was born in New York but I feel lost when I go back there, disoriented and it's kinda like feeling (inaudible at 0:16:03.7) going through a strange experience, it's the nature it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I guess a lot of, there's a lot of questions right now as to what's going to happen the next week. And some of it is a little scary. And I guess I'm trying to, you know like one of the things I'm hoping that today like talking about all this will help me get it out and I can put it away so I can do something. 
COUNSELOR: Be task oriented. 
CLIENT: Pardon?
COUNSELOR: Be task oriented. 
CLIENT: Yeah like I have things that didn't get done last week and the week before. You know lots of things. 
COUNSELOR: Your regular living things.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But I feel like if I can get this anxiety satisfied. 0:17:04.1
COUNSELOR: What's, I guess you know, I guess I haven't, I guess I kinda, the anxieties about kinda just now feeling it really all be complete and knowing where you're going and how it's going to be. 
CLIENT: Yeah and it's not the anxiety of having the abortion. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I've got that together, I feel. It's that the connections aren't made yet. 
COUNSELOR: You know, I mean I don't, you know it very may be you will be anxious until the connection is made. It's perfectly understandable. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I have a feeling it will be too. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah well, you know when you have a big loose end that's not connected, it's in your mind, it's there. 0:17:45.3
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And when you talk about it's, I'm not saying don't talk about it. I'm just, you know I guess I'm saying you know you have a real, you know it's a real legitimate thing and it could be understandable to be anxious about it until it's solved. 0:18:04.5
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: I know that that doesn't sound like a happy thought.
CLIENT: No, but it's more realistic than trying to think that I'm going to get it all taken care of and put it away. 
COUNSELOR: You know maybe, you know like maybe, you know you can like what you said like, you were able to get through your pain that night with training, kinda mechanical. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You know maybe some sort of compromise can be, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I suppose that's sorta the way I'm looking at it, an attempt. Yesterday you know I felt so on top of things for the moment, you know at least that I, after Don left I could even do some work and feel good.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh, uh huh.
CLIENT: Last night I tried to make the connection that I had and that didn't work And I can't get in touch with Stephanie today. And then when I talked to this guy, this minister you know. I said that there's potential that I'm into the ninth week. That's probably as far along pregnant that I can possibly be. "Well, you just don't have any time to waste, you know." Which that just, "Oh thank you. That's just what I need to hear."0:19:14.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It was kinda like you know there looming in a sense. 
CLIENT: Well I'm not running scared yet. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
CLIENT: Because that's got to be the optimal amount of time that I'm pregnant. No, it didn't except that it makes the anxiety stronger sort of you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And that's all. I, you know I guess one thing that's funny. I'm trying, I guess I'm trying to think of moving to something else. Just that I get, I think that you're right. That the anxiety is probably is going to go along with me until it's really kinda finalized and put together. 0:20:10.3
COUNSELOR: It looks like the thought of it makes you...
CLIENT: Well yeah. It's just that I, I guess that it's most disturbing that I can't put it away is that I can use that as such a wonderful procrastinating thing, you know. To stay away from..
COUNSELOR: Indulge yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Your anxiety.
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Kinda like the, it's not like the things of living that you have to do are the most hilarious choice things that you wouldn't not like to procrastinate anyway. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I was ok this morning for about an hour and a half getting some stuff done. And then as I ran into snags about getting through to people, I mean it just started building up. And I'd sit down and I'd try and do something and zap, I'd just, you know I just started meandering all over the place. I guess it started last night. I didn't sleep very well. And all the thoughts were what kind of connections I'm making and..0:21:23.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah kinda all of those loose ends, anxiety loaded loose ends running through your mind.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And when you say you couldn't sleep very well I'm sure that's probably why you couldn't sleep very well
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's always on your mind.
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) It's, what's funny is that it's like another sort of, I don't know if it's a cycle, but another thing starting. That Wednesday, work through, by Saturday and yesterday everything was all right. 0:22:03.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kinda like a new phase. 
CLIENT: Yeah, having made a decision.
COUNSELOR: It's kinda, right. It's kinda like the thing. Well there was emotional stage, irrational stage, the stage of working out with Don to the decision. And then the implementation stage. And then once the implementations are made then the carrying through stage. You know it's kinda..
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's like wow. This is starting a thing that's, the experience itself is not so frightening as making sure the experience happens. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Right, right, right. It's certainly happening. It's not the emotional part of having to have emotions so much as the practical, you know feelings. You know I mean kinda like being practical about it in kinda the sense of not having closure or getting into all that worked out. 0:23:00.4
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I was thinking before about which like..
COUNSELOR: Do you want a cigarette?
CLIENT: No, thank you. 
COUNSELOR: I noticed you're not smoking. 
CLIENT: I know I can't. They make me sick. I can't smoke and I can't drink anything either. 
COUNSELOR: Kinda makes you stop smoking. Great.
CLIENT: I know. As long as I can, my roommate keeps saying that after this is all over what I need to do is connect the nausea of smoking, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Straight behaviorism.
CLIENT: Right you know. And then I won't do that. The same with the drinking is I that can't, I can have one drink and that's all and I get really nauseated from it. And it's..
COUNSELOR: Does my smoke make you nauseous?
CLIENT: No, it hasn't so far.
COUNSELOR: Ok. Let me know. Because I realize I can abstain. 
CLIENT: (chuckles) It does sometimes. It hasn't bothered me so far. My one roommate smokes a great deal and I get up in the morning and I can't even be in the kitchen anymore because that really is bad. 
But what I was thinking about is the anxiety thing. Which is just so uncomfortable, you know? And I guess I really have been trying to think of a way to relax about it or, you know it's like the anxiety is over something that's got to work itself through. That already, you know, some contacts are made that ought to indicate that it will get worked through all right. And I guess I'm kinda thinking of the Gestalt kinda stuff that we've been reading, that I've been reading. And it says to take it where I am right now and relax and I want to be able to do that. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm. Just trying to get a hold of all of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, and just accept where I am now. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So that the anxiety doesn't come..
COUNSELOR: Come stronger and put you maybe even more where you're not. 0:24:59.2
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, like a wave you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: And just come and take over. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Swamp you.
CLIENT: Right. You know I guess I really feel a need to do that. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Because I, I guess just because I can become anxious about things very easily and wanting to just accept where I'm at now. Relax with what is now, you know. And if I've done things to make things move comfortably toward you know tomorrow and the day after, the anxiety really shouldn't be such a high level. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: You know and that's what I really want to try and do is just to relax where I am. And see that things are going to be all right. You know that they are working through. I don't know. I can do that if I can occupy myself with something. 0:26:13.2
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like when you're doing the things that make you feel all right or that you would do what you feel all right. You know that occupy you is just not there, you know you feel it. It's kinda like when you're lying in bed and you're mind's idle. You know and you're not doing things when you can't get into them, that's what there is to think about because that's what's most pressing. 
CLIENT: Yeah, right. 
COUNSELOR: That's the most real place about where you are right now.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Is the anxiousness. 
CLIENT: Right and it's still unresolved. 
COUNSELOR: And it's really you. You know it's really, it's unanswered right because you say it's unresolved and anxious is the result.
CLIENT: Yeah. Wait a minute. Now you said before, you were saying the anxiety of the situation and all is me. 0:27:06.9
COUNSELOR: Well, no. I'm saying, you know that's, you know like in a given moment in time you know you're, this is something that really kinda most defines you. It's like the most meaningful and important thing to you.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: And what I'm saying when I say the anxiety is you, I mean it's the situation. But it's your most, it's the most, you know, meaningful thing you feel given your life at this day and time. This is where you are. 
CLIENT: Right. Oh yeah. 
COUNSELOR: In your steps. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah it is. But is this a part of, you know where I'm at. I mean like..
COUNSELOR: Right. 
CLIENT: I also..
COUNSELOR: You also feel strong and kinda good too.
CLIENT: Yeah and I feel the pressure of needing to so some other things too, you know? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Like, like I was saying you know if I occupy myself with things you know, with being nice and strong or I can kinda relax. And I was just thinking that actually most of that occupational thing is in interacting with someone else. When I place myself in my room to do some reading or basically all kinds of things that have to be done for school that I wouldn't attempt to avoid, is when I can't concentrate. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Kinda like when you can talk with people, you can get into that. But I mean the thing is that in that way you're more highly distractible. 
CLIENT: Yeah, but also where the pressure is beginning to be felt you know. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: As I look and see that I have five and a half weeks to make up an incomplete. Or less than that to make up an incomplete as well as..
COUNSELOR: Your regular work.0:29:01.4
CLIENT: You know, what has to be completed this quarter, I begin to really feel some pressure coming on you know. And along with working through connections for an abortion and all..
COUNSELOR: You've got to be working through your incomplete work.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's, and I can, you know I'm using the anxiety around the connections for an abortion to procrastinate against doing any of the other stuff. And I never can, you know like I can always do that. 
COUNSELOR: You can always find something to procrastinate. 
CLIENT: Yeah, always. 
COUNSELOR: I guess you like to procrastinate. 
CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I mean you know you, I'm not saying you like to. I mean in the sense that I mean you feel like after you get the stuff done it just doesn't grab you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Nothing about the stuff I have to do is really that threatening, you know. 0:29:59.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah that it's enough to feel enough pressure just push you to do it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Well maybe that's it. 
COUNSELOR: It's kinda like maybe (inaudible at 0:30:06.4) pressure or something. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I was kinda thinking about some of the things we'd talked about in terms of the threat to being competent and doing something you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I don't feel that way about any of the tasks that need to be done. It's just a, I guess it's just partially that I'm just bored with school and what's going on. And that makes far more anxious about getting out and doing other things. That the leftovers to be done become less and less meaningful to me. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 0:30:53.8
CLIENT: I'm not sure to go you know with what. Like with today in terms of talking. 
COUNSELOR: You have the time.
CLIENT: I dead end. I don't know. What do you mean? 
COUNSELOR: Like you said things but you kinda look at yourself as you don't know if there's much more to say about where you are right now. 
CLIENT: Yeah I guess so. You know I don't know where to pursue anything. I guess that's sorta funny because I'd be, you know I began to feel as though I had to really search things out as I was talking here. Maybe I'm feeling very little direction coming from you.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And much of what you say is, you know as I perceive it, is you know, either supportive or repetition of some of the things I say. And not carrying a direction of pursuing something. 0:33:06.5
COUNSELOR: Like picking out something. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, you know I decided what I needed to do was, as we talk pull stuff out myself. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And see where it led me kind of thing. Kinda looking back to one of the first things you said you know, "It's your hour to talk."
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I'm beginning to feel that I ought to be taking advantage of it more than I am. 
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure that I get that here. Because I sense all the things you were just saying, they were kinda given and then you were going to say something and I somehow, and saying something. This is complicated. Because like you don't feel like you're taking advantage of it. Is it kinda like you were kinda saying a lot of things and I wasn't giving direction and kinda like it didn't come or something. 0:34:13.4
CLIENT: Yeah. That..
COUNSELOR: Like the thing, kinda a Gestalt of it all. A sense of clarity about all the things because as you say you were talking about them a little here and there. You know as you were doing it but it didn't you know. It wouldn't mesh. 
CLIENT: Yeah, right. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Now I look like I've confused you.
CLIENT: Yeah I think you have. Let me see. You know it's like I've, like when you suggest have I've run into a dead end I suspect that's right because I don't know what to pick up on to pursue. 0:35:13.2
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I'm feeling, or I think it's kinda my responsibility to do that. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but you've seen a way, you are doing that. You picked up on your sense of dead end and what you're talking about now is doing that. 
CLIENT: Yeah it's doing that. I don't know where it's leading to though. Like it to me it's, to me right now it's just sort of a clarification of the fact I'm at a dead end and I don't know where to go. 
COUNSELOR: Well I kinda sense like what you're saying is like, "I feel bewildered right now. I've said a lot of things and I don't feel where they are. I just feel incomplete about them." And that kinda is the most sense of where you are right now. 0:36:04.8
CLIENT: Uh huh. Yeah, yeah. Particularly I guess some things are, I don't know. Now I'm beginning to try to think back on the kinds of things that I initially wanted to work through. And I'm not sure that any of them have been worked through any better than they were when I came. Although that's probably an understatement. I think it's one of the things I think is that it's pretty difficult for me to tell you know exactly to what degree I've really consciously done something. 0:36:57.6
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: Or very unconsciously.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
CLIENT: I guess I think that, and this just comes out of my head right now it's like I sorta begin to feel as though maybe this is the result of being able to come here is an influence on accepting myself where I am. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Yeah it kinda like that it's just the fact of coming here is kinda the, makes you, is kinda a sign or just makes you feel like more coming just to terms and grips with where you are now and being able to say, "Well, that's me." 
CLIENT: Um hmm. And also..
COUNSELOR: And kinda not imposing and being so hard on yourself and imposing what you're not, what you're unhappy about, what you'd like to be. 0:37:56.3
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know how much that's true. It just also occurred to me that a lot of those kinds of issues really get submerged you know in consideration of the kind of crises I'm going through.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kinda like, you know like I mean you haven't talked about feeling or not feeling warm feelings, or you know the kinds of things that you talked about initially, you know, because maybe they're being submerged because there's something more important going on. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah and like there is, you know. Like there is something more important going on. I guess I feel, you know I think Scott, that I'm dealing with that crisis now and I'd kinda like to be able to hear, not just focus on that alone. That crisis. I think that having talked about it last Wednesday and spent some time on it Friday and some time today is helpful in clarifying where I am with it. And you know, accepting myself very much with it and not being uptight about it. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Well I don't know. I guess this is sort of an intellectualization. I don't know whether there's anything to be seen in terms of this kind of crisis thing and where I am in terms of having said some things about some feelings about myself. A lot of them having been negative ones you know, about confidence in myself yet. 0:39:56.1
COUNSELOR: You mean kinda like, ok what, as I understand it's kinda like you're kinda trying to see or articulate them. You want to focus on the relationship between like my feelings of dissatisfaction about myself and also you know what happened.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess what it sounds like to me that I'm saying is sorta, you know research evaluation of where I am from where I was when I started here. 
COUNSELOR: I'm not, I'm not a research evaluator. But I can certainly say, you know you're pretty well along from the, you know you dealt with a crisis. I mean you really dealt, you know, solidly. And you know when I listen to you talk about it I mean I sense that kind of solidness and that feeling of sureness and confidence about you know your decision and yourself in that decision. 0:40:58.4
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: And it's kinda like, just the way you sound has kinda, like you have more, you've already told me about that like you're talking like someone that's just more confident, has much more sense of feeling at home with themself and what they think and feel is right. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You know it's kinda like you know you're dissatisfied with yourself but you know, as you talk about yourself you know, you give the impression.
CLIENT: Yeah maybe that's..
COUNSELOR: Did you understand? 
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I'm thinking maybe that's what sorta hit me yesterday too is, you know, the feeling of strength.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Like when you said that. Like "I've been feeling really strong." You really said it. You know, a sense I had too. 
CLIENT: Yeah and you know I guess..
COUNSELOR: You know, in part you know, that's also may not just be why these feelings are submerged in other things. But you know they also don't feel present. Because you know, you're feeling strong and you're not terribly obsessed by that yourself and, you know, who you are because you see yourself you know, doing pretty good. 0:42:07.8
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And feeling pretty good about being yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah. You know one of the things that I tend to do, like I guess I, I guess I don't like it. It's kind of a revealing sort of thing about things that one holds personal. Or I feel like I ought to hold personal. And that is having kinda worked this through and decided to have an abortion and stuff. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: You know and I feel sorta like, wow. In a way it's sort of an exciting experience, you know. And it's kinda like I begin to feel like it's a sort of thing to hold up to show people, you know? 0:43:09.8
COUNSELOR: Do you mean that literally or? 
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I do. I don't know. Like for example, now maybe I'm exaggerating. But I have a friend who I went to college with and I was very close friends with when I was in college. She is living a suburb and she's married and living a like, you know..
COUNSELOR: Suburban. 
CLIENT: Yeah. That kind of thing that I've worked very hard and want very much not to be. And as I, as this has been worked through and like a decision has been made and where I'm going with it, you know I'm almost tempted to tell her about it now. But you know, I could never have shared it with her during the crisis because she's just not close enough to me anymore. 0:44:03.3
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
CLIENT: But now that it's worked through you know, that it's no longer a severe emotional crisis anyway. It's like I'd like to tell her because it's a way out experience. Particularly from her perspective. 
COUNSELOR: From her world. 
CLIENT: You know from her world it's..
COUNSELOR: Kinda like you want to open her eyes.
CLIENT: Yeah, well. Well you know, let me see. Maybe this makes it plain for you. Like when I went to college you know, I decided that, you know I grew up in a rural area. I went to high school and everybody knew me from when I was a little kid. Well when I went to college you know, it was like, "I can be anybody else. You know I don't have to be what I was." 
COUNSELOR: Like a new person. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't have to be what I was. 
COUNSELOR: Nobody knows me.
CLIENT: Right. And I worked very hard, at least intermittently. Part of it was probably just the way I am. Part of it was worked on, you know, for an image kind of thing. But I wanted to be different. And I wanted to independent. And I wanted to be known as very much an individual kind of person. 0:45:08.3
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And by the time I was a senior you know, at least by the kinds of relatively close friends and close friends. You know I had, you know I was identified as a different person who didn't do ordinary things. Who would be more apt to do real adventurous kinda way out things than anybody else. 
COUNSELOR: Certainly from the person from small town America.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, and some of the friends were like this girl, I mean real unusual anyway. I mean it could be way out. I mean it's sorta like a carry over from that. You know to show her, maybe it's a proving thing. You know, I have to prove that I'm still very different.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Something kinda like you can kinda just see telling her that, the effect in terms of her seeing your individuality.0:46:08.9
CLIENT: Um hmm. And I was just thinking too that maybe what it is is, you know, an attempt to further reject ever having to live in suburbia. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kinda like putting all that down in a subtle way. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I don't know. This might be just wrong but it seems like wanting, "Look at me. That's your life. This may be something. This isn't part of your life. I'm different from that life." Like waving at it.
CLIENT: Yeah. A thought had flashed through before, let me figure out what. About, I guess about proving. Having to prove that I'm different too. I think I've always felt the need to have to prove that difference. One of the things that, you know, distinguished me was my involvement in theater and acting.0:47:25.4
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And that there was a minority of people that really did that kind of thing. And I really let people know I was an actress. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And if I were, if I discovered that I began leaning toward an opinion or a stand that was not accepted by the majority, like I would really go gung ho on it. 
COUNSELOR: Play it up. 
CLIENT: Yeah, really play it up. 
COUNSELOR: Play it out. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. And let people know that I was really, you know I really didn't believe the same thing they did. You know like I was in a sorority which was a totally acceptable thing. But within that organization..0:48:12.1

COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like you were in an acceptable organization but you weren't an acceptable organization person.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Kinda there too kinda, you know kinda being a person who showing you uniqueness or individuality like you weren't like them. You weren't like [all the rest of them] (ph) You weren't like the typical sorority girl. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I also think that you know like all those kinds of things is I place myself in a risky position, sort of, of acceptance. But not so risky that I completely pull out security of being in. 0:49:17.4
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kinda like, it's a risky but it's a real, it's a short kind of risk because it's like you're being different but in being different it's secure. Or it's something that you value. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Well, and it's still within the bounds of not total rejection, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Like I have two of my closest friends, well the two people that were here two weeks ago, Jill and Curtis
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
CLIENT: Who are living a lifestyle that's unacceptable in most social, you know most of society finds it totally unacceptable in that neither person is working. That they, excuse me, are very mobile and have no real roots except his family's, which they go to once in a while. But really kinda very free in the wind. 0:50:10.0
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: That they aren't regularly employed. That they aren't students, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: That they aren't responsible human beings. Except that they are, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it's like they are themselves, but in terms of a societal way that people get defined being a steelman (ph) or student, or you know..
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: Being that, they don't have that. 
CLIENT: Yeah. You know like for me, I don't know how..
COUNSELOR: You're not there. 
CLIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: It's like you're not there. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know how long I could do what they're doing. Of course I don't have enough financial support that goes along with the way they're doing either. But I don't know how long I could do that. Just being so very mobile. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like your way of individuality, of being, expressing it, showing it to people is kinda, it's more within a commoner range or something. You know what I mean? 0:51:09.7
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You're in a kinda acceptable range or something. 
CLIENT: Yeah, and I guess...
COUNSELOR: Acceptable in an individual.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes it makes me mad that I, you know. Because I can't, I guess I want to be an extremist. 
COUNSELOR: You want to, yeah. I guess that's what you're saying. It's like I do this but it's low risk.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: Like I don't feel, something in me would really like to do it to the hilt.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: You know like, but I don't feel strong enough or, you know, and that's not low risk. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And like I can do it but I can only do it in a compromised way. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's really funny that sometimes people interpret things I do or whatever, things I think, as being way out. You know and I eat it up. Particularly friends who are, you know, in these very secure little places. And like this experience of becoming pregnant and deciding to have an abortion, you know, is like pushing toward a not acceptable societal kind of thing. 0:52:33.5
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And one thought that had occurred to me, you know Wednesday, Thursday having thought, I guess it was probably Thursday when the thought of having the child was, you know leaning. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Was that I, you know, wanted to be strong enough to go ahead with that without feeling I had to get married now. Like having decided to get married was another big decision that fell within the bounds of that acceptable range, you know. And that I considered not doing for a long time but I did recognizing the, you know, the advantages to it. But still deciding that we should still be married in September rather than marriage, you know, for having this child. And feeling rather, you know, flaunting about being unmarried and having a child and not feeling bad about it. 0:53:31.5
COUNSELOR: And you know, knowing I'll get married. And it's not, the question isn't getting married, I'm going to do it the way I was going to do it. 
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: No need to speed it up. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I fantasized about being very noble about it. And you know using that again to be..
COUNSELOR: Flaunt.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kinda like, you know, it's kinda like the most logical thing whenever we were going to get married, would just be to get married sooner. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: But no, I'm just going to do it you know, then I'll be getting married. I'll have a bit of a stomach, you know, but.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know but, I guess what's troubling about, you know like all of a sudden the feeling about wanting to let this girl know that I'm having an abortion. For the reason, not because I want any support or anything from her. You know, I don't need that any more.0:54:24.7
COUNSELOR: You want the satisfaction derived.
CLIENT: I guess that's it you know, and I don't, I don't like it. 
COUNSELOR: It doesn't feel, yeah, you don't like it because it's like, it is somehow kinda tied up with, well you know, you would say like you know, you depend on other people for your support or your feelings and in a way this is, it's like your feeling of individuality is not trying to be yourself so much as that other people see it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I guess, you know which is that, I don't know how much of it is just naturally because I, I'm an individual..0:55:07.2
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Or because other people, you know you present yourself as, or so people see you as one. So I guess kinda it's like some of it, in terms of other people must be in there because you wouldn't gloat about, I don't, do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: About you know, imagining what this girl in Scottsville. Do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, very much. And that's what I don't like about it is that I guess it is knowing that some of the way-outness of me is merely from the perspective of people who are very unway-out or even unindependently individually.
COUNSELOR: And that's where you may be getting some of your good feeling about it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, and they feed into it. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. And you're kinda troubled that, it kinda makes you kinda unhappy that you want to do that and would like to do it. That's a source of amusement. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I do think that, I guess I do think that in a limited way I've begun working that out because I sort of, I still get the thought I won't tell her, you know. Because I've begun to control the urges to do that. Having decided, I guess part of it's having decided acceptance of myself, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm, um hmm.
CLIENT: And I'm not going to play off the need...
COUNSELOR: Right. You've conceded that you really have a propensity to do it, but like you know you can, "Well, I know what I'm doing and I'm not gonna." You don't feel like doing it, you know. "I can just accept myself and where I am."
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: "And I can accept I have urges too. I think that's in there too. But I don't feel quite the same about carrying it through."
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know whether I accept the urges though. Because I don't like the thought, you know as it came to me and I thought about it, and I let the thought go through, you know. 0:57:18.8
COUNSELOR: Then your guilt, you know you..
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I, you know, felt a little guilty for having considered it. Because I, yeah I guess I am beginning to accept myself where I am. Not needing to have that build from somebody else. 
COUNSELOR: Right. Not needing to have other people's beliefs, be your own. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I guess what the dissatisfaction is, is having the urge to want to do that. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kinda like, I mean it's not doing it but still feeling the urge like you want (inaudible at 0:57:55.0).
CLIENT: Is that maintaining another too high expectation? Because I feel as though I've begun working that through only perhaps in the last year and a half really. 0:58:09.1
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm. You know it's kinda like what you're saying is that too big an expectation of myself to have it completely sewed up and solved right away. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah and then I..
COUNSELOR: It's certainly not, you know if you feel that way it's certainly not accepting the way, you know where you are right now and that is you keep having the urges. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. Um hmm. Yeah but I, what I'm trying to say is that is the expectation of eliminating those urges even, you know, is that too much to expect of myself as I, as I move along you know. As I accept where I am, you know, without some of those needs. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're kinda not sure if you're again imposing something on yourself right now like when maybe it would be better, you know maybe it will never come or maybe it'll come in a year, you know. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Right now is it expecting too much of yourself not to have those urges. 0:59:12.7
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I don't know. You know I can say yes and I can say no. 
COUNSELOR: Right, right. Like you can say, "I really don't want to have them."
CLIENT: So it's not that high.
COUNSELOR: Yeah well, I don't know if it's that high. I mean it's like you, it gets, you know you don't, it's just not knowing what's really right. I mean it's an unanswerable question really. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it is. 
COUNSELOR: You know, I guess you would feel uncomfortable about that. But it's like, you know, you do feel bad about having those urges. And you can't quite say, "Well, I just have the urges." So you're not there yet, just accepting it. You do expect yourself not to have them. And whether it's unrealistic or not is you know, I mean the fact is that you do have them and you do feel guilty about it. 1:00:05.9
CLIENT: Um hmm. I can see where the question is, you know, one that I was really asking for an answer but kinda recognizing that there isn't...
COUNSELOR: You were asking for, yeah you were asking, yeah I guess I kinda edged away on that one. You were asking, "Am I being unrealistic wanting to rid myself of these urges, you know, and feeling guilty about them?" You know it's something you want for yourself, but you know may not, you know right now you don't have it. I mean it's not unrealistic to want that, you know I mean, because, you know. But neither is it no more realistic or unrealistic to think about having them and accepting them too. You know, I mean there are two ways to look at it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, right. 
COUNSELOR: Either way...
CLIENT: I guess it suggests to me also that accepting the urge to do that kind of thing is a step toward eliminating it. 1:01:06.0
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm. Yeah because almost like in the accepting of it is an act of strength. Do you understand?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I can get rid of the guilt feelings that I, that you know, come after the thought. You know, then one works on, well you don't need to..
COUNSELOR: You probably, you know, the thoughts might disappear. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: We've got to stop now. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: How's, we'll do it Friday then?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How's 2:30?
END TRANSCRIPT
