TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Oh gosh.
COUNSELOR: But once that happens, most of the time I end up without any sound when it doesn't work, but once I've pushed it and it's shut down, that's because it's down, that's scary. That's...
PATIENT: Uh-huh. That happened to my VCR once and eventually it just had to be thrown away. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I think that's probably common with the VCRs.
COUNSELOR: Well, rumor has it I was being resistant to an AVB [ph] session.
PATIENT: Oh, really? To these sessions specifically? Why is that?
COUNSELOR: I don't know.
PATIENT: What is that, Doctor?
COUNSELOR: It's a clinical (inaudible at 0:00:43.0). Then I had this other... Well, our technician came in and said to me that there is some research that suggests that brainwaves can affect...
PATIENT: Machines?
COUNSELOR: ...machines.
PATIENT: Really.
COUNSELOR: And then they'd be...
PATIENT: Strange.
COUNSELOR: He thought that may be one of the reasons why I wasn't getting sound on half the sessions, and it could be you or me, but we don't know...
PATIENT: Probably me. I think that all of my brainwaves have affected all of the machines that I've got in my life.
COUNSELOR: It could both of us sort of creating some sort of.
PATIENT: What sort of research has there been done?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. He just mentioned it to me because...
PATIENT: Is that a joke?
COUNSELOR: No, he was serious, and I was wondering because other people use this office and they haven't had the same type of failure rate.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: So...
PATIENT: Strange. Maybe they're more machine-friendly than you are.
COUNSELOR: Well, no. Actually I've been pretty good. I'm the one who usually trains people how to use these things.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Well, I've totally forgotten how to use my VCR, totally. I don't even know how to do it any more. I started knowing everything about it, because my wife started recording her own programs, and then I used it less and less, and now I just don't know how to do it. After two years I've just totally forgotten what the procedure was.
COUNSELOR: Palpitating, yes. They're coming out with these multiple in-service computerized ones where you can talk to it and it responds to you. I'm waiting for that one.
PATIENT: Yes, I'm waiting for that one.
COUNSELOR: So how are you doing? 0:02:18.6
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: I think I'm doing pretty well this week, more or less, probably, total. Played our tape from last week a couple of times and it's kind of puzzling to me in some sense.
COUNSELOR: I'm curious about that.
PATIENT: Well, it's sort of a confrontation between us or something or any... I mean is this an artificially created confrontation that you've created to get some sort of - something going or what?
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know, you know. Like perhaps it's a part of the...
COUNSELOR: The master plan or something?
PATIENT: Right, yes, a master plan.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: I mean you said that the efficacy of this program depends upon the relationship between the patient and the therapist and that might be part of the plan to sort of get some juices flowing or something. Is that part of the plan are things that...
COUNSELOR: Part of the plan is to explore what emerges between the both of us I could think of that's important and may be useful and acceptable and emerges in your other relationships.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: I don't guess is that you're thinking that I was provoking you in some way or provoking something.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And I don't know if that was part of the plan.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: So tell me more about that.
PATIENT: Oh no, I hadn't really thought about that until maybe this morning or yesterday or something like that. And it sort of occurred to me, that was sort of a peripheral thought, that one thing that I found that - well, I was talking about it last week, and it seemed to be I sort of approached it lightly, talking about my previous therapist, the marriage counselor that Kathy and I had seen. There was a degree of enthusiastic support that I felt from her that I don't feel here, that I don't feel from you, and it's because, from a couple of reasons I think; probably because we're approaching things differently and it's just a different sort of - you're a different person and you handle things differently. 0:04:39.9 
So while I feel that I'm profiting from coming here, I think that I also have a need for enthusiastic support that I... I enjoyed the enthusiastic support very much from Josie and I'm not asking you for it, but I think that if there's something that I find perhaps that I was not totally articulate about it last week or hadn't even really thought about specifically what there could be more of or what was lacking or whatever, I think it was that. There's a certain degree of - that's about, not spontaneity. I'm always talking, I'm sort of babbling here obviously, but talking to you maybe, more than just talking as opposed to some sort of ill-defined or diffuse sort of other entity...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...out there rather than talking to you as a person, so I think that's part of it. Maybe I'm not talking to you really often, I'm just talking to...
COUNSELOR: Well, what would that be? What would that mean, actually?
PATIENT: I don't know. Talking to you?
COUNSELOR: Well, talking to me. 0:06:04.6
PATIENT: I think if I'm not talking to you it's kind of because we've - maybe you're still some kind of... When we were seeing Josie there was more feedback from her, just in terms of verbiage, more words coming from her, and because of that we got to know her sort of as a personality. I think that because there's less response from you you remain more of a - less of a defined person because you haven't defined yourself, and then I have a tendency not to require you to define yourself as I become more speaking to the ill-diffused - just speaking to the air sometimes rather than speaking to that another person. And I tend to do that anyway, because I don't like to speak to another person and I find it very anxiety provoking. So I sort of would prefer just to talk to the air, even. I'm not even sure if these conversations are conversations as much as monologues...
COUNSELOR: Monologues?
PATIENT: ...on my part. 
COUNSELOR: So the sense that I don't - I'm not as forthcoming as Josie or not as verbal as Josie. Does that make you uncomfortable?
PATIENT: If that would make me uncomfortable I would hope that what you were doing was different than what she was doing.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I thought that it was producing a different sort of result. It was giving me a chance to sort of practice verbal communications.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Which I think I can really use. I always thought that I should take a course in verbal - or just because, just given my job, you know. I don't have a chance to do that, so it's really very welcome to do that. And you have some sort of enigmatic plan, I guess, or maybe not any plan. But just the procedure of or just the process of what I'm doing I feel it is useful, because I feel that speaking of things that are unsaid, getting things off my chest, and also going through a process of crystallizing thoughts that have been ill-defined before, all of that is useful. I'm not really critical. I haven't even really thought about it. 0:08:52.3
COUNSELOR: It's confusing to me because on the one hand you are dissatisfied; I mean there's something missing. You recognize that something's missing or something's...
PATIENT: I hadn't been dissatisfied until I was asked by you.
COUNSELOR: But on the other hand it's like then you're saying to me, well, there's this great opportunity to, you know, practice verbal communication and so I'm kind of confused on where you stand with this.
PATIENT: No, like I said, I wasn't - I had experienced - I had reacted to it as a different experience.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Then just accepted it as a different experience and welcomed it as a different experience and hadn't really required it to be anything other than it was. But if I were to compare it with a previous experience and what was there that was valuable that isn't here I would say that that is the element. But on the other hand there was a lot that I wasn't receiving from the other therapist that I am very glad to be getting here. So it's just - I just hadn't really put it into words before so that's that. 0:10:13.2 
It was... And what do you think of that? I mean is part of your - do you think sort of enthusiastic support just part of what this should be about? I mean not everybody operates the same way. I think in Josie's case it was quite almost embarrassingly blatant as if I hadn't... I had done something positively during the week she would come in and say "Very good, Don, very good." And that was great, I loved it, but that's kind of really looking for sort of a major approval. That's not really the... Outside, I'm sure she was honest, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yes. 
PATIENT: I think she was.
COUNSELOR: I think so. Some people are sincere in that environment. I don't do things like that.
PATIENT: And she was being terrific for that, but I felt that just in terms of investing my personality I felt that she was not able to do it well and I felt that the basis of my continued growth would be not in terms of marriage counseling, even though that was part of what was happening, I felt that it was well - much deeper than that and developing - investigating real emotional difficulties that I might be having and communications [of adult you said] (ph), communicating emotionally and so forth, but communicating emotions or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: And I didn't feel that that was being developed to the degree that I wanted it to be. And also it was too expensive; I couldn't really afford it; that was another thing. 0:12:09.1
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: So that's really the basis of it. I haven't really thought that - in any terms critically at all or really analyzed it critically I guess. I sort of accepted it.
COUNSELOR: Do you think it came across critically when you listened to the tape?
PATIENT: Well, I kind of thought in terms of - in retrospect... I don't think it came across critically as much as I felt that your responses have always been sort of enigmatic to me or distant or something like that and I just hadn't been able to - and I just reacted to them as sort of a good student, a good patient or pupil trying to honestly and sincerely respond, but it does seem to be that... I mean as I always say on the form at the end that I agree with what you're doing. I don't know what you're doing but I agree with it, and I think that you understand what my problems are and so forth, but I just feel that there's a little bit of distance somehow.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I don't know what it is. Whether it's just...
COUNSELOR: So what does that mean?
PATIENT: ...verbal tone or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Verbal; what do you mean?
PATIENT: Maybe you speak quietly, you know, or don't complete sentences as much as I might want sentences completed.
COUNSELOR: Right, uh-huh.
PATIENT: Or I just have a response of how do you feel about that, which is sort of useful for me to respond to because it can be very difficult for me to respond to, but I think it's - sometimes it's sort of annoying to have these "How do you feel, how do you feel, how do you feel" reactions from you, and perhaps more varied repertory of responses might be less - might just be welcome sometimes. 0:14:37.8
COUNSELOR: So how about right now? Do you feel...
PATIENT: I feel very comfortable.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you're being critical?
PATIENT: I don't know. No. I feel quite comfortable this morning so I don't really feel anxious or... Sure of course it's a critique, it's critical. I don't feel I'm being emotionally critical. I don't feel I'm attacking you. I don't feel there's anything negative about it. I don't even feel that my take on it, Bob, is necessarily correct. This is just sort of analyzing it for the past couple of days and listening to the tape last week I kind of feel like this is maybe how I feel about it and so... But I don't necessarily feel critical in an emotional sense, matter of fact.
COUNSELOR: Which would mean what to...
PATIENT: I'm not angry about it or anything like... I feel that it's useful to state this, but I also felt what was happening before was useful as well.
COUNSELOR: I mean I certainly experience it was critical, but then I also get the sense that you sort of qualify things a lot or...
PATIENT: You experience this as critical?
COUNSELOR: Oh yes, uh-huh, definitely critical to me is how I sense it, but I also get the sense that it's qualified, or without the gloves put on, you know; that you'll say something and you'll qualify or pull back in some way. That's sort of how I'm experiencing it. 0:16:23.1
PATIENT: Well, you know, it's hard to gauge how another person is going to react to something like that and it's not meant to be - you know, I don't want to create any psychological pains or whatever, because I really don't know, because I really don't think - because I just don't want to, that's all. Why should I want to hurt somebody? Why would I want to do anything to harm you?
COUNSELOR: Are you aware of what you're feeling right now?
PATIENT: No, I was just sort of trying to develop a thought. I feel quite comfortable this morning and quite relaxed and I don't feel anxious and I don't feel as if there's any pressure on me and I - as opposed to last week when I felt quite anxious, somewhat anxious, let's say, and sort of depressed, I guess, or something. I don't know. I don't know what it was. I didn't really - I wasn't even thinking well last week. I think I was very tired, just (inaudible at 0:17:28.2) last week. But I would hope this would be - I'm saying this in a spirit of friendliness.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I am not of any desire to, at all, add anything into this situation that would be negative in any sense. And in fact I feel it's a very peripheral sort of statement that was kind of as a result of sort of examining this situation but sort of a basic - it's not at the core of what's happening here, which is sort of something that is part of it but it is not the essence of what's happening here. So there it is. I don't want it to be taken as more than it really is. It's not - I'm not striking at the core of the process. 0:18:44.6
COUNSELOR: Do you have a fantasy of what I was thinking or how...
PATIENT: I couldn't make it happen. I couldn't guess. No, I'm taking it professionally that you wouldn't be reacting emotionally to it, but I can't guess, I don't know. I don't know if you're taking it... How are you reacting to it?
COUNSELOR: What if you're... You said you can't guess, I don't know.
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't guess, and I would think that as a professional maybe you take it the same way as if... Well, let's see if I was to think about it. If somebody told me I did a design that would require some changes that I respected - but they respected the design, essentially I guess it would be the same way. Kind of a vague discomfort that something was pointed out that wasn't exactly the way it was - a discomfort with having to confront a problem of some sort, and other times I might be - if I felt that what I was doing was really right on I might be incredibly angry at that change, but that I've become sort of - do more and more - as I get older I guess I'm realizing that there are valuable and valid criticisms from people who are thoughtful. 0:20:17.3 
Then on the other hand there are criticisms that are just totally arbitrary and superficial from other people and I think that this is offered in the sense of being a considerate and friendly statement that's not a criticism. You know, when I worked at Sears the word that was avoided when any changes were required was "correction." "We're going to make a correction on this." It's like there's no such thing... Correction means that you're wrong when you say and order a correction. We'll make a revision on it, we'll change it. But the revision just means that there's a process of conversation and consultation that goes on and there's a consensus that that occurs as a result of consultation and then revisions are made. 
But corrections are a pain because there's no such thing as a correction when we're dealing with superficial problem with subjective criteria. And in the case of making a change on a lay-on or piece of art or something like that I think this would be in the same type sense. You know, it's, uh. Not asking for a correction. Correction means there was a mistake or something wrong. Not it's just... It's just a question and... It's a question, that's all, as a comparison so... So I would offer it in that sense.
COUNSELOR: What did you think of when I said that I get the sense that you qualify. You made a criticism that you very carefully qualify it. 0:22:06.5 
PATIENT: I would hope that I qualify everything. I mean when I look at anything in the world it's almost impossible to make a positive statement without having some sort of a qualification about it. I don't think there's anything that isn't surrounded by complexity, that requires an elaboration of some sort to fully explain.
COUNSELOR: Can you imagine that as being an obstacle to communicating directly and clearly about things?
PATIENT: Yes, I guess I am. Do you think it's an obstacle for me, and communicating directly about things?
COUNSELOR: I get confused. I do.
PATIENT: Do you? In what way? Just to know how I feel, you mean?
COUNSELOR: Yes. Not how you feel, no. Whether that was a criticism or my criticism or, you know. It gets processed too much that after a while the essence gets lost for me.
PATIENT: It's like I'll send you a set of footnotes on what I was thinking at the end of the...
COUNSELOR: Yes. And you read off the footnotes and forget what the actual sentence was.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. I mean I'm always running through all of this business in my mind of all of these qualifications and all of the... I mean I'm sort of clearly taken by the idea how one thing influences another thing and nothing is clear and things are not what they seem often and requires a - and so many analyses of just about anything is so superficial it might be wrong, so I feel that it's really necessary to go a little further beyond what people often say and I feel that it's really necessary to go beyond the obvious, and going beyond the obvious might be a little confusing because it gets into areas, gray areas, of subjectivity and so forth and it's hard to get to the real essence of things. 0:24:46.2 
And that's always been a problem with me, getting to the essence of anything that I'm willing to really commit myself to. And that's one of the reasons I never really was able to really give myself to various projects in the past, various like book projects and so forth, because everything is qualified, so qualified I couldn't really commit myself. 
COUNSELOR: But it's sort of, you know - committing to a project is very much like committing to a sin (ph).
PATIENT: Yes. There's so many qualifications, like Civil War, Civil War Forts. By God, I can't do anything on violence. I don't want to do anything that has guns or violence or killings, you know, associated with it, or on the other hand I would love to do something that had to do with dramatic confrontation and situations of extreme conflict and so forth or... You know, there's all sorts of ways of looking at it. 
And I think more and more I sort of find myself acting (ph). And I mean this is sort of not on a human level or personal interaction level, but I feel because I work at my own and I'm not around people I sort of have radio on all the time and I listen to WNYC all the time, which is sort of the leftist station, and I'm surrounded by these radical feminists all the time, and while I don't agree with them I do agree with them. And I feel I shouldn't be doing things because radical feminists would not really agree with what (inaudible at 0:26:25.9). 
And then I listen to the very right winged stations and then, oh yeah, there's a faith and a basic validity to their viewpoint, too. So I'm listening to both of these arguments and agree with both of them basically.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Because there's a validity in both of them. There's a complexity in everything and it should include... And we're not thinking about half truths either, we're talking about many facets as well for the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Right, no.
PATIENT: So sort of emotionally that's always been confusing to me. I think that's probably undoubtedly... well,  for a lot of reasons it's easier for me to deal with things that are older rather than newer, sort of historical things and so forth, because so much of the confusion has been sifted through.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: It's easier to sift through.
COUNSELOR: I think though, remember last week when I said that I at times feel distant from you?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I think it's when you pick and qualify things and I get lost.
PATIENT: You get lost as to what I'm saying or what my...
COUNSELOR: The essence of what you're feeling.
PATIENT: The essence of what I'm feeling so often is just an intellectual jumble, I think. I mean my mind is going on so many different things. It's trying to process so many different things that I sort of end up with like - they just counteract one another ultimately. And I think it happens really an intellectual basis as well as an emotional basis. But I find all of this stuff confusing and conflicting and so forth. I find the world today so absolutely confusing. I feel, let's see, antagonistic so often. 
Like my son is going to this really terrific school. One of his teachers has a course called Awareness that she teaches; they should be socially aware of certain things like stereotypes that they've been studying; stereotypes for weeks and weeks now, women. His teacher is black and they've been studying black history month for about four months now. I think the study of Columbus had to do totally with the study of the Taheena (ph) Indians. No study of Europe other than how bad Europe was basically and how fine the Native American population was. In back they had a Taheena (ph) Indian visit the class and discuss the situation, so that's the basis that was Columbus Day and it was extended for about four months or something like that. 
Then after Columbus Day, then comes Black History for four months. And now they're studying stereotypes, and the study of stereotypes is basically stereotypes of women. Of course, they did have the stereotypes of other races, and I feel that this is so totally subjective that I don't agree that it should be included in a classroom situation. I think it's political propaganda, actually. Radical political propaganda, and I'm very - and the question is a great one. Somebody has a discussion about that every day when they study stereotypes, but not every particular day. 0:30:40.5
But I think it is such a compil... And they a film yesterday about stereotypes, how a person from a white neighborhood would film this - a documentary of how the happenings of a middle class white neighborhood viewed somebody walking to - two different people walking down the street. [Strangest one] (ph) down the street, one is a black person, one is a white person, and there was a negative reaction from the white people to the black person on the street and a positive reaction to the white person.
But the more we got into discussing this, Matt says, "Well, the black person was dressed in dirty torn jeans with a crummy tee shirt on and so forth and the white person was dressed with a tie and neat length, looked like an Ivy League person." This seems like a setup. This whole thing was a setup. I mean there's so much communication. I mean it's not as clear as they're presenting it to be. There's so many areas of gray and so much visual communication that occurs from things other than just the color of the skin and so forth that to even present something like this, if this is indeed what it was, is just - makes me question what this whole thing is about, you know. 
COUNSELOR: More than a question, you seem kind of angry about it.
PATIENT: Angry. Yes, I am angry about it, because I think it is political propaganda. 0:32:11.7
COUNSELOR: Sounds like it.
PATIENT: But at the same time it's useful to deal with stereotypes, because they are powerful to a great extent, but at the same time we don't read the visual clues of other people, that other people give us consciously and subconsciously. Then we can't exist in the world. There are visual clues all around us: How a person dresses, the demeanor of another person, the expression on another person's face. You could call it stereotypes or nonverbal communication or whatever, and so this is a very gray area. You can talk about it one way or talk about it in another way. But so many things are - I find very fault, very superficial, and I'm really angry intellectually almost all the time, so that's something that is really a big part of me, of my day. That's a side that we haven't really discussed.
COUNSELOR: And that is what?
PATIENT: You know, just really the inequities, the superficialities of the world. You know, how some people are liberals or people on the right have their own very narrow viewpoints that are not inclusive, and they're exclusive because they're dogmatic, they're being very clear about their emotions, but then they're not being very clear about the total reality. I kept in my desire to be clear about everything. I'm not being clear about my emotions, but I'm trying to be inclusive of everything. You know, I hate both the Democrats and Republicans.
COUNSELOR: Me, too. 
(Chuckling)
PATIENT: And there's nobody any better.
COUNSELOR: Right, right, that's what we've got.
PATIENT: And there's no philosophy any better either. I mean that's really the (inaudible at 0:34:09.0) should know better. Nobody's any better.
COUNSELOR: Right, right. 0:34:12.4
PATIENT: So I love machines. Machines have always been my answer and science has always been my feeling that there will be some salvation through a technical analysis, a scientific analysis, of what it is. But at this point I don't even know if that's going to work because I think so much of what... If human beings can affect machines with their brainwaves then we are so far from understanding what the other person is really all about. We're a thousand years from understanding what reality is even, so this I find frustrating too. This is one of the great frustrations of my life. I think it's not the major frustration; being able to understand things. And it's like my major theme is wanting to have conversation and...
COUNSELOR: And that also gets demerited in qualifying things?
PATIENT: Well, it's also if I like... We were talking about that they were also showing Hitler on this film and Matt was saying... Yes, I was just kidding around, saying the other day that - I like told Matt, I said, you know, since we're Czech, Hitler would have - if we lived in the Czech Republic at that time Hitler would have killed us, no doubt about it. We just would have been killed. He killed a third of the population of the Czech Republic. And he got excited about that; he liked that idea...
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling) Inspired that drama.
PATIENT: Dramatic idea. Yes, it was kind of a dramatic idea.
COUNSELOR: I gather.
PATIENT: But then we started getting into the causes of World War II. I said to him, you know, there's no way of understanding the causes of World War II without understanding World War I, which was the big event, I think, of the past 500 years. It really changed everything. It was the end of renaissance civilization and then we started to get into the real long conversation of why World War II occurred, and I really condemn the French more than anybody else. I think they're the real cause of World War II, and nobody else does, you know. It's always the Germans that were causing World War II, but it's really the French who did all of that to Germany. 0:36:42.9
COUNSELOR: I'm really actually curious, that whole note again. Go off on a historical feeding grounds.
PATIENT: This is all - all of this complexity is important stuff to me and I... So many of these projects that I'm working on are sort of somehow attempting to communicate this sort of complexity of intellectual investigation I guess that I feel and so forth and that's why it's so important to me as well. (Inaudible at 0:37:17.8) is not just about airplanes, it's about the belief in the efficacy of the spiritual nature of science in the early part of the 20th century.
COUNSELOR: I don't want to take anything away from the import of... I agree; I think life is really incredibly complex, and I do think the Democrats and the Republicans are an oversimplification of the way things are, but I sort of wanted I guess to goad you into thinking about how you may be using this to create distance from relating with others in  a more real way. I remember last time we talked last week that you said something about superficial interaction and how you felt far interaction superficial, but you also made a comment that this tends to be characteristic of many of your interactions. But I sort of want to actually talk more about that, because I thought that was important. And I'm not sure if there's a relationship. I'm sort of proposing that there may be a relationship. I'm curious what you think. 0:38:44.6
PATIENT: You want me to react to your statement that, again, refocusing on our relationship as being superficial, or most of my relationships are sort of a superficial sort of reaction to people?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: One thing, I just really enjoyed my discussion on my view of the world; I always wanted to bend somebody's ear on that I think, and that was...
COUNSELOR: Satisfying?
PATIENT: Very satisfying. I feel I can go now, I really do.
COUNSELOR: You can't go yet.
PATIENT: And sometimes I really don't feel - yes, sometimes I don't feel as if I'm really living unless I'm creating something; sort of like peak to peak experience in creation, or that I'm really talking about what I want to talk about unless I'm talking about this sort of complexity of what the universe is all about and so forth. But all this other stuff is filler material, all this human relationships and so forth. 0:40:06.0
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: It's just what happens between those times that I can think about how the microcosm affects the macrocosm, whatever.
COUNSELOR: So you don't buy then that you may be using it to distance (inaudible at 0:40:26.8)?
PATIENT: Oh I do, I do. I do buy it, but at the same time...
COUNSELOR: But you want to buy it?
PATIENT: But I want to buy it. But at the same time I'm here because I really find that having bought that for so many years has put me at a disadvantage. Because the common currency in the world is people dealing with other people and I have not traded in that common currency as much as others have, and that puts me in a disadvantage even less than expressing what I want to express and other things, so I buy it. And that's a problem; I just haven't done it. And I know that it's hard for me to deal with other people; I find it very anxiety provoking. I mean I don't find this anxiety provoking. I feel that after I've been dealing with somebody for a while I feel comfortable. 
I just want to bring something else up. There was a - in the publishing company that I'm working with now, an assistant to the art director who I'm doing the illustrations for, she's new there, and we were talking, speaking together friendly, in a friendly way, and she just felt that she knew me somehow from the past, that she had seen me, and I feel that I have seen her too. 0:42:14.1 
But then we had a conversation last week, and I said "Let's have lunch," because we have a very similar background. We're both illustrators and - basically illustrators - and have children, same age and so forth, and I just wanted to sort of share experiences with her and I had lunch with her yesterday. 
I find having lunch with somebody who I hardly know or meeting somebody who I hardly know as being one of the most anxiety-producing of all situations. I kind of felt dizzy, like I was going to faint half the time, and I just felt so unable to really be in control of the situation other than sort of babbling constantly, and if I stopped babbling I felt, yeah, I felt woozy. And I was hoping that something like this, talking constantly... But everything would prevent that. 
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: How do I prevent it? You know, I sort of got the information that I was interested in, I got the information how she got that job, what the procedure was that she took. And I still don't know how I know her, because I know that I know her somehow. I think that maybe she was in the Lamaze class that we were in before Matt was born or something. Somehow I know her, I know that I know her, especially when she talks about her husband being a show manager. That just - I mean that's just very, very familiar.
But I don't know. I felt that anxiety or nervousness that produces that sort of tunnel vision and produces some sort of looking at myself from the outside and so forth that really has - sort of has prevented me from dealing with people. But I decided to ask her out to lunch because I wanted to deal with this, because I wanted to see if it was going to happen and I wanted to see if... 
For one thing, I wanted the information. You know, she was friendly. She had so similar background to mine I thought it would be tremendously useful to do that. But that anxiety is just still there and that's why I distance people. I mean I distanced the entire situation by babbling for an hour or speaking basically without sort of letting up, without really focusing on her as a person. I think if I would have focused on her as a person I would - gosh, it would just be too much for me. 0:44:53.8
COUNSELOR: Yes. What about here with me?
PATIENT: No, I don't feel like that. I know. And strangely enough, I never feel that way in sort of an institutional setting or sort of a setting - doctor, like hospital, so forth. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I feel like I can relax. I'm in the hands of a knowledgeable professional.
COUNSELOR: Right. So there's sort of a concrete parameter?
PATIENT: Yes, yes.
COUNSELOR: Balance?
PATIENT: Yes, I think so. And yeah, those people who are knowledgeable professionals, know how to deal with this, probably.
COUNSELOR: Yes, you keep it very professional; patient-doctor.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Therapy.
PATIENT: Yes, right. But in something like this, this person... There are no parameters in real life and I find that extremely unnerving.
COUNSELOR: Just unnerving when you don't have that to cling to.
PATIENT: Yes, I do, I do. I find it extremely unnerving. It's just I guess I find it's really - prevents me from making the progress. Has always prevented me from making the progress, and this is a real perfect example of it, because I did it as a sort of a test to see whether that fear, real fear, would still exist. 0:46:22.1
COUNSELOR: Yes. I guess I'm really curious about how it emerges here, and I do understand that you - because it's - I guess you called it the parameters; you've kept it from - kept yourself from feeling really anxious.
PATIENT: I mean on the first day of the interview with the interviewer (inaudible at 0:46:44.1) quite anxious. I can feel anxious on the street sometimes. 
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: I don't do it that much, but dealing with situations like that, a one-to-one situation with somebody who's sort of brand new, I'm sort of terrified, I mean really terrified. I'm not just saying a little bit terrified, really terrified. Kind of want to stand up and run away.
COUNSELOR: I'm thinking of a question but I'm also realizing we're running out of time so I don't want... Now I get the sense that we hit on the...
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: ...things the last time. We have just a few minutes, I'd rather not leave it...
PATIENT: That's okay, we have time.
(Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: I guess - okay, well, I guess what strikes me is that... I'm thinking about the way I'm going to say this because I'm concerned it's going to come out critical, um, that's why I'm  pausing. Well, I'm going to say it anyway. You commented in today's session and a number of sessions about our relationship being somewhat of a professional, seemingly on a professional level, but you also commented that that's sort of been dissatisfying in a way. Is that right? Was there something that ... 0:48:46.7
PATIENT: In a slight way, yes.
COUNSELOR: I mean...
PATIENT: Yes, I guess so.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I mean on the one hand the professionalism makes it kind of easy because it's sort of the parameters are kind of concrete, you know what to expect, no surprises. But on the other hand there's the side of you I guess that wants some more human interaction?
PATIENT: I guess so, yes. Maybe I just want more effort - more, what's the word, pats on the back I guess, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, is it just that or is there something else to it? You know, is it just pats on the back or are you reacting to a bigger issue here?
PATIENT: It might be that in some way you present yourself in a way similar to the way that I present myself that I don't see - I feel like I'm talking to myself, you know, half of the time, and I - and because of that, let's see, what does it mean? That there's some degree of mystery that's lacking, or some degree of level of - not mystery. I don't really understand that. I can't go into unexplored emotional territory, because the territory that you're presenting to me is the territory that I know, because you present yourself to me the way I think I present myself to you to some degree. 0:50:38.4
Like in some sense I married Kathy because she's a totally different world I think. And I guess I feel comfortable with you because...
COUNSELOR: I'm you.
PATIENT: Yes, that's it, that's right, exactly. Anyhow, I guess I can't expect anything more than I don't expect from myself.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Which could be a lot, actually. If I were sitting there, talking to me, I think I could offer myself a lot.
COUNSELOR: What would you say? Like right now, what would you say?
PATIENT: I would say yes, of course, I do have a lot to offer you, and I feel that I am offering you a lot and if there's anything you'd like me to concentrate on more, of course, I'll take that into consideration and try to modify future sessions to try to provide that if you feel like you need it; that's what I would say. And maybe that's what you haven't been saying that I would like you to say; that if you feel that there's something more, I'll try to examine it and see if I can provide it to you or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Right. Would be in the sense, then, I'm, in a way, discounting?
PATIENT: Discounting?
COUNSELOR: Like when you make these comments about what's lacking or what you'd like to see more. 0:52:22.6
PATIENT: No. I feel you're reacting in a way - yes, kind of discounting it I think in a way. I know that you know that your reaction is going to be a certain way. You're not going to modify your action because that's the way you are, you're not going to be Josie, but maybe you wouldn't go as far as I would in sort of examining your - saying that you'll examine yourself and try to see where there can be some modification to bring about something that might be lacking in the situation.
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: So that I guess...
COUNSELOR: Well, I think that would be important, and certainly I would like to do that.
PATIENT: And, well, I think that's... I mean you're steering this conversation right now back to our relationship, which is terrific, but what I want to talk about was this lunch yesterday and how I think epitomizes more, for me, what my problem is necessarily than what this relationship between you and me is, but you might be right. 
COUNSELOR: I qualified it and... 
(Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: I guess I brought up that. I mean I don't see them as that different, you know, I mean in this context, you using the parameters to provide comfort and ford (ph) to you. But just as I want to be open to what I've contributed to our relationship that precludes it from being more human, it's distinctly important for you, for your side of it, and perhaps the parameters that you see that you kind of cling to preclude it from being more human as well. 0:54:38.0
You know, yes, okay, this is a therapeutic relationship, but also we're two human beings. What is it that I'm doing, what is it that you're doing, what is it that we're doing together, that creates a distance, that keeps it on a more professional as opposed to less human plane.
PATIENT: Well, it seems to be a - I'm really not here.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: I would just be repeating myself when I sort of put myself in your position thing that I would just sort of look at it that I - how I'm reacting, being you, and sort of see how I can modify things and so forth.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Also I can look to myself and see how I can modify things as well. I don't see exactly what I can modify anything with respect to... What can I modify? I mean that would be your question - my question to you. What could I modify to break beyond the bonds of a professional discussion?
COUNSELOR: For one thing, you do raise in the sessions probably is that how do you qualify things. I think affording to your questions is to emerge, I guess. Let's see what happens, because I think... And I guess you're very much aware, in the last two sessions with me, coming back to our relationship, maybe perhaps more than all the sessions before... Let me think about it, I don't know, but I think that you're definitely aware of that, and I'm definitely aware of doing it as well. Because I think the whole issue of feeling good is this feeling that I'm not forthcoming, that I feel solid system (ph) as well I think is really important, I think it's very critical.
PATIENT: Like I don't know. And you think that it would be helped by a more - a less qualified way of my responding to answers or responding to questions or whatever? Well, then I went into this long discussion how I think the whole world is so complex it has to be qualified, and of course I went into that, enjoyed that tremendously. Can't wait to replay that on the tape to hear my philosophies of that thought.
COUNSELOR: I probably think that that's true. I mean I don't disagree with how complex the world really is. I think it is. I agree with a lot of things, your ideals about - and your perspective on the world. But there's something about bringing it into human communications to the anth (ph) degree that's (cross talk) really relating.
PATIENT: Yes, you're right. Maybe I've come up with this take on the world as a way of explaining how I react to the world. I mean it could be that as well. Probably an interaction to both. 0:58:21.1
COUNSELOR: Yes, I mean it's not to invalidate your world view, but to point out that you may also be using it as a defense.
PATIENT: Yes, I agree. I am using it as a defense.
COUNSELOR: But that doesn't take away from the fact that you're right on.
PATIENT: Yes, um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: You know, things are very difficult and complicated.
PATIENT: But still, at the same time, okay, but I want to deal with that visceral fear that I feel when I'm dealing with strangers I think. That's what I really want to deal with so I can really - so I can get out there and get more work. I mean that's what it's all about as far as I'm concerned about it. I think I've done...
COUNSELOR: Well, we've sort of had a disagreement. I mean I actually don't disagree with you. I think that we are working towards that visceral fear. I think that there's a fear working incuriously (ph) between you and me that you don't - you know, there's like different levels of anxiety and I think that something's going on in here that's anxiety driven, and you're not experiencing anxiety because of the way things are going but... 
PATIENT: I see. [Another curious thing] (ph). I suppose so. I mean...
COUNSELOR: And I'd like to get at that anxiety in this context. Well, I think it's important that we talk about other context in which you're feeling this as well. I don't want to sound like we're only going to talk about us. It's not really what it's all about but... 1:00:03.7
PATIENT: I guess so. I mean to... Some of it might be... Because you presented yourself in a way similar to the way I present myself I kind of discount myself, what I think. Maybe I'm sort of discounting what you say at the same time, because I see that reflection of me in you. Because I know sometimes like Kathy has told me that I discount her; I don't really take what she says seriously.
COUNSELOR: Let's pick up with that. Just also add that I think... 
(Note: The above three paragraphs repeat in the audio.)
All of this is not going to be resolved in each session. You know, we have many sessions to really grapple with this. 1:02:16.7
PATIENT: Well, I did want to talk more about that business with the dealing with strangers and so forth because it's just - it's so central.
COUNSELOR: I do think it's central as human relations are central to the whole picture and let's talk about it and we'll talk about it, you know (audio break)
PATIENT: ...that I was getting just nothing but duration (ph) from it at home so I really feel that whatever...
COUNSELOR: Whatever.
PATIENT: Whatever has happened it has put me in a position that I felt confident enough to present this stuff to the world, despite the negative emotions that I've been getting about it from home for so long, and from myself also at the same time. Mostly from myself. Shouldn't put this all on Kathy. It's mostly negative stuff from me. so as I've been gaining some feeling that there is validity in my emotional commitment that wants me to expand, do things to get in contact with the world, but I'm in a position now where I have to fall off this. You know, there are lots of - more people whose names that have been given to me and they're talking about giving me work in a few weeks and so forth. 
So as opposed to the past when I was not getting any sort of positive comments, saying that, well thank you, if we have anything we'll contact you, now it's call me in a week, we'll set up another appointment and so forth.
COUNSELOR: You dig (ph) that.
PATIENT: Yes, this is really terrific.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And I don't want it to be screwed up by this fear thing like with this new woman yesterday. I don't think that she necessarily experienced it, and if she did, you know, I told myself, so... 1:04:18.7
COUNSELOR: Sometimes you can be more (inaudible at 1:04:20.8). I don't think we'll ever come to the point where you'll be Joe Cool.
PATIENT: Yes, right, exactly. But I do want to be able to deal with these meetings, dealing with people who are not - who I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So forth.
COUNSELOR: Pay attention this week to qualifying things.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Your tasks for your work.
PATIENT: Okay, I'll do it.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Good session.
COUNSELOR: We'll cross those on Wednesday.
PATIENT: Oh gee whiz. For the next two weeks...
COUNSELOR: Is that when Matt is off?
PATIENT: Yes, Matt is off and I don't know whether I can even... 
END TRANSCRIPT
