*TEXT-PV011112 Wednesday 7 August 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, I'm thinking about uhm, u—, you know, really all the
same thing.  But uh, I don't know, today was the first day that I, pardon,
last night, that I let myself really think about the fact that uhm, Friday,
you know, being the end for here, is also our wedding anniversary.  At
least, you know, I always have trouble remembering is it the 7th or the
9th.  Uhm, and so I'm never positive, but I think it's the 9th.  In any
case, you know, that's the way I've been thinking about it.  
And uhm, when I first let myself think of it, I was, it really
bothered me.  I don't know, by now I, I'm sort of thinking, well, why
should it bother me?  But uhm, I guess that's why I wouldn't even let
myself think about it for so long.  And at one point MSCZ had asked what I
wanted to do on Friday.  You know, sort of a combination of uhm,
celebrating finishing here, and our wedding anniversary.  And I, I think my
whole feeling was, what's there to celebrate?  And, I don't want to
celebrate anything.  Uhm, and when I was thinking about it now, I guess I
was beginning to feel, well, that's really ridiculous.  But it does mean
sort of, (Sigh) you know, an abrupt turning from you to MSCZ.  And, my
feeling right now is not turning to MSCZ, so that uhm, well, I, I, I just
don't know what I'll decide.  
Uhm, (Pause) I, I guess one reason I d—, I'm not sure too, is that,
uhm, last night I thought, (Sigh) you know, at first it seemed as if I were
leaving yesterday feeling better than I had left the day before.  Although
both days, when I thought about it I realized that I felt like crying, when
I left.  And I guess that's what made me start thinking about all this last
night.  And it got so I could almost not enjoy, w—, we'd gone to the
ballet, and after awhile uhm, I couldn't stop thinking about it.  And I,
(Sigh) it made me feel very nervous and uhm, well, sort of anxious, I
guess.  
Because it was as if I were l—, relivi—, or living the last moment
many times.  So that, you know, all I could think after awhile was, I wish
the last moment will hurry up and come, because I can't stand reliving it
and reliving it.  And it hasn't even happened.  Uhm, I don't know, but, you
know, during the evening I, I'd start feeling the way I had Monday, and I'd
lose all my uhm, (Sigh) well, I don't know what it is, confidence, or
whatever it is.  (Pause)
And I had a dream this morning that I, I was just trying to remember
the different things that happened in it.  I, I don't know how much I can
remember, because I don't know how much I remembered when I woke up.  But
it seems almost as if it's a variation of the dream I'd had Monday, where I
became the man.  It's like, uhm, if you aren't going to give me what I
want, then I'll, well, I don't know. I me—, I, I hope it's just in dreams,
because that seems like it would be a bit more manageable than if I'm
really still thinking somehow I can uhm, get a penis.
But uhm, a, at some point, I — the dream began when I was a woman,
and I was uhm, I don't know what things were going on.  But I was a woman for quite awhile, and at some point I think I saw FHYZ.  And I think
something else happened while I was still a woman, and it involved somebody
that I know, another woman, and then a man.  But in any case, with, I think
it was FHYZ, uhm, there was somebody that she was, I don't think it was
MDRZ, but it was somebody that, you know, was important enough to her.  So
it was as if they had some kind of a permanent relationship, whether or not
they were married, I don't know.  And uh, he was killed.  I don't remember
how he was killed.  But anyway, she came to tell me.  Uh, and then somehow,
a, and that, at that point in the dream, after it turned out that he'd been
killed, I became a man.  And then I was going to, well, it was almost like
I w—, (Sigh) were going to comfort FHYZ.  But it had sexual overtones. 
(Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, do you think that might be kind of nice to be a man and make
love to a woman? 
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, I must still feel that way.  I know I used to.  And uhm,
I'm more aware of, that it can be nice to be a woman and make love with a
man.  But I must still feel the other way, too.  (Pause) Or I don't know,
maybe uhm, well I think I used to just feel, it would be nice, a, and no
business about just being curious.  But uhm, I suppose maybe right now I'm
just wondering is it, you know, at least right this minute I'm wondering is
it nicer, or just different, or what?  (Pause)  Or at least, I don't know,
I think, well, what when I want to make love, I know I can, and I can enjoy
it enough so that it just doesn't — if I want to then it just doesn't
enter my mind now to think, well, it must be nice to be a man.  So that,
uhm — (Pause)
I don't know, I'm sort of thinking to (Sigh) you know, I, I assume
this dream occurred partly because of the mood I got myself into, last
night.  And I was thinking back to that and wondering, well what was I
really so anxious about?  Uhm, and I think in part it was just the
anticipation of the last day, and, you know, it was as if I had to keep
living it (Sigh) so I'd be prepared, or something, I don't know.
Uhm, but I think I was wondering if, if there were s, some other thing
that, you know, because i—, i—, I was in the kind of state that I'd think
things and then I'd blank out what I'd been thinking, y—, kn—, o, or at
le—, I don't know, I me—, I, I'd find it hard to remember, or I'd just
end up feeling anxious.  And uh — (Silence) 
Well, uhm, I think I was thinking about s—, I don't know how much
this was in my mind last night, but it's something th—, I did think of and
I, I just thought of it again.  And also, in connection with something
else.  Because uhm, MSCZ had wanted to have dinner again with Professor DBJ
before we go away.  They had had several conversations during the summer,
and he had asked a couple of times if we could.  And so, we're having
dinner with him tomorrow night.  
And MSCZ just told me today.  H, he had been on uncertain whether he
could.  So we tentatively set tomorrow.  And then, he called MSCZ today to
say he could.  And then MSCZ told me that uhm, when they had first talked about it, uhm, he had wanted to meet at a certain time, MSCZ said he wasn't
sure if he could get there then.  So, Professor DBJ had said, well then,
uhm, your wife and I can have a drink before you get there, or something
like that.  And MSCZ put it in the terms of, "He seemed to be anxious to
have a drink with you alone."  Uhm, and he's always kind of kidded me about
DBJ having some interest in me, or I don't know.  At one point even, DBJ
said something about it at that, uhm, dinner, last time we had dinner with
him.  But he's always kind of kidded me about it.  
And, you know, so on one hand, I think, oh, well then it's just still
on that joke basis.  But on the other hand, my feeling was, I don't feel
ready to be able to handle that.  But I wish I could.  Uhm, you know, feel
I, i, if it would work ou—, I mean, I think, if it worked out that MSCZ
had to be late, which it probably won't, I think I'd be scared to death. 
And I don't like that feeling.  And uhm, I'd like to feel, you know, th—,
well, whatever comes up, I could handle.  (Clears throat) Not that anything
would come up. 
But uhm, you know, somehow with DBJ I'm hiding behind MSCZ, and I
don't like that.  And uh, th—, and the thing I was thinking about last
night was not that, but I was thinking of this, and then I thought of this
other thing.  This weekend, I, I didn't hear most of it, because I was
taking care of FSO when this came up in conversation.  But at one point
FYSI and MSXZ were telling MSCZ about this couple we had met through them,
who were getting a divorce.  It's a couple that I've spoken about before. 
And uh, apparently, well first she was saying that they are now divorced
and that FWB has a new boyfriend.  And then it turns out that her husband,
he p—, first husband MSCZ, also has a girlfriend.
And uhm, I'm not sure this is what actually got me started thinking
about this, but that's been on my mind since.  You know, kind of, just, if
I were in her place, I don't, you know, as I imagine it, I would not feel
ready to relate to anybody.  And not, you know, so much because I were hurt
by the divorce, or anything, because it was her choice.  But uhm, I know a
feeling that I just have, you know, it's all part of my not relating to
people, and uh, being dependent on MSCZ, and withdrawing, and everything. 
And that, you know, somehow, it seems as if it's the same kind of thing
that makes me feel I couldn't have a drink with Professor DBJ alone.
Uhm, but you know, it's k—, and it, I think I thought this way when
FHYZ was dating some people, too.  You know, sort of, how, how can she,
what do you do, how does she know what to do?  Or, you know, just, sort of,
I don't know, it just is, I'm always relating t, to men anyway, as a
married woman.  And uh, maybe I'm holding that in my mind, you know, as
some kind of a (Sigh) well, defense.
ANALYST:   Against? 
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, it seems like mainly just being a person.  But uhm, it
must, I think it's also that I cannot distinguish, you know — I don't
think I still can, I know I used to not be able to — between a male having
interest in a female that wasn't sexual.  Or that might even be sexual to an extent, but doesn't mean, that, you know, they're going to end up in bed
together.  
Uhm, and I still, just taking the other way, you know, knowing MSCZ
has interest in other women, I still have trouble stopping myself from
being jealous, and thinking, oh, he wants to leave me and have an affair
with who—, whatever woman he starts to get interested in.  Uhm —
(Silence)
ANALYST:   So, what you're really saying is, you're simply uh, afraid to uh,
entertain sexual fantasies about other men. 
PATIENT:  (Pause, Sigh) Yeah, I mean, you know, I'm less inclined to think now,
well if I have fantasies, then that means they're going to happen.  But I'm
still hesitant to, I think.  But there's something else, too, in that, I
think.  Uhm, I don't know, it seems to have to do with the fact that, I
don't know whether it came from what I was, I was trying to do with my
father.  You know, get his attention and what I had in mind in the end, or
just what.  But it seems as if, along with being afraid of having
fantasies, i, it seems as if that would have to be the end result or just
the only interest, or uhm, the only real interest, or something like that.
And uhm, you know, being able to relate to men in any other way is
just not something that if I, that I've experienced, either.  You know,
usually I would just avoid relating with men.  But uhm, I was thinking
again of, I think this is part of my fears for next year, or, you know,
feeling of discomfort, or something.  Because just having a working
relationship with a man, you know, and here he is not the one completely in
charge, and uhm, which then, you know, could cover all sorts of things.  So
I pretend something else were going on.  But uhm, one that, you know,
doesn't necessarily have to have any sexual connotations, where I won't be
playing the little girl, cute role, and flirting, and —
ANALYST:   But you think you might have uh, sexual fantasies about MME? 
PATIENT:  I don't know, it depends on how unattractive he seems to me after I've
gotten to know him better.  Bec—, because I said, some of these habits of
his have seemed more and more annoying to me.  But uhm, (Pause) I don't
know, it just seems as if it's more, that there's only one way I've ever
related to men, if I relate to them.  Other than with MSCZ, you know, with
him I would alternate between being, you know, sort of the cute little
girl, or being a real bitch.  And I suppose that's what I do with my father
too.  But generally, you know, I thought, if I'm trying to be successful in
relating to a man, then there was only one possible role.  And it's not a
role I want anymore, and so I'm kind of left, well you know, how do you
relate to a man?  And it seems like there could be lots of different
possibilities.
Because, you know, for instance if I still think about MME, I don't
think, I don't anticipate right now, when I think about it, that we'd ever
really be friends.  But I'd like to have a good working relationship with him.  And uhm, you know, I just, it's not something I've ever done, so I
don't uhm, I don't know, and I, when I did see him in the spring, I always
found I had to fight that tendency to, you know, play that one role that
I've ever played.  
And that was immediately, what came to my mind is what I might do if I
happen to have to be alone with Professor DBJ. And then aga—, I don't
know, I just, I suppose if I don't like it enough, then I'll learn other
ways to behave.  But uhm —
ANALYST:   Do you think you have been only, uh, a cute little girl, or a bitch,
here? 
PATIENT:  (Sigh) No, but uhm, (Pause) well, I was going to say, but this is
different.  And, I suppose in some ways it's not.  Because then I start to
feel very sad, thinking it's different, and it's not something that uhm,
you know, it's something I'm losing.  And then I think, well, why should I,
because really what I've been here is just myself.   And sometimes I've
been both those things.  But I guess, you know, I've been able to be other
things, too.  And uhm, but still, it is different.  I don't know w—, quite
what makes it different.  Whether it's that, in a way, you're not reacting,
somehow, you know, in any kind of a personal way, your personal feelings,
or just what.  But somehow, it just seems like it's different.  (Pause)
I don't know, (Sigh) now I'm coming to something that I, i—, seems
like it's very conflicting.  Because I'm thinking, well, it's also, maybe
it's what I meant by your not reacting personally, or according to your own
feelings.  Uhm, but I was thinking, well I can trust you, or count on, you
know.  If I say that I'm having fantasies about you sexually, you will not
take me up on it and think that's an invitation to go ahead and have an
affair with me or something.  Which I've always had — you know, I might
have those fantasies, but I didn't want it to happen.
And uh, so then I think, well, I can't count on that with uh, people
outside.  I mean, maybe it's likely not to happen, but it's not something,
well I, I s—, well then I think, you know, this is where it's conflicting. 
Because then I think, well, after I know somebody, why shouldn't it be
something I can count on, or not?  I know them, and then also I'm thinking,
well, why should an honest, direct relationship, or just my being honest
and direct, mean that that's what's going to be going on between me and
whatever man it is.  I don't know, which s, sort of gets me back to, it
seems like that's all I think about when I think of relating to a man.  
ANALYST:   Jumping into bed. 
PATIENT:  (Silence)
ANALYST:   I suppose, that, you know, this is an extension of this idea that's
ruled your life, that the only important thing about a man after all is his
penis.  So if you're going to have a relationship with him, you have to
have a relationship with his penis.   
PATIENT:  (Pause) Yeah, I, uhm, I sort of heard that differently than — I, I
don't know whether you've said that.  I mean, I'm sure you've said
something similar before.  And uhm, I don't know, this time I thought, well
that's, thinking about a man in that way is about as bad, or maybe as bad
as the way I've thought about being a woman.  (3-minute silence)
I don't know, not, uhm, I just seem, ah, as if I'm not thinking
anything in particular.  It's just sort of like, well I can't keep
thinking, even the way I have been the first part of being here today. 
Uhm, and then I just start thinking again of, this sort of seems like
extreme fluctuation of moods or thoughts that I have, or, you know —
(2-minute silence)
Well, and then I think of last day again, and I, (Sigh) I guess what
it is is, I'm just wondering if I'll be able to, you know, just sort of
like, survive the last day.  
ANALYST:   What specifically do you think of? 
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, I think of crying, and I can think of it just when I
leave, or you know, feeling like I'm going to cry throughout the whole
time.  But then I've been so busy feeling that way, uh, these last few
days, that I don't know whether I'll really feel that way by Friday.  
ANALYST:   Have you cried? 
PATIENT:  (Pause) I don't know, i—, (Sigh) you know, it's again part of this
extreme variation.  As so—, the times when I've thought of it as, in terms
of feeling like crying, and not just either anxious or depressed, or
something else, when I don't really have a crying kind of feeling.  But I
have felt like crying.  Well, I did just a few minutes ago, and I have both
the last 2 days when I left.  And uhm, I didn't really.  I don't know why
not, maybe it was just because I was thinking it was kind of silly.  Or uhm
—
ANALYST:   Why did you restrain yourself here? 
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm, I don't really know.  Uhm, i, it just seemed as if at the
sa—, you know, almost at the same time, you know, it wasn't quite, but at
this same moment of thinking, well this was, it was, at the time I was
thinking you were different.  And so relating to you, or however I am here,
is you know, unique, and I'm losing it.  Ah, almost immediately I began to
think, well why should it really be, if what I have been here is just been
myself?  And uhm, so I guess I didn't feel like crying enough, I don't
know.
And I don't know, I also was thinking about something else, because
it's something I used to do so much.  And uhm, (Sigh) I, I do—, I don't
know whether it's, I mean I hope if it's something where crying would be, I
don't know, not the right thing to do, but you know, I, I used to cry a lot
out of self-pity.  And, and then I'd say, oh I'm crying, so I'm letting the
feelings out and then everything will be better.  But i—, I don't know, there was some kind of a, awareness of myself and feeling sorry for myself
kind of thing involved with it.  And uhm, I don't know, now anyway I just
have this feeling, if I feel like crying, well then I want to do something
about whatever it is that makes me feel like crying rather than just sit
there and cry. (Pause)
Or do something so I won't feel sad. I don't know if it's quite like
that, but I was, uhm, I, it makes me think of something that occurred to me
today.  And then I think, well why was I even thinking this way?  Uhm,
because part of my day was spent doing a number of things, so that I could
have everything ready when I left to come here, since the BFMs are coming
early tonight.  
And so then at some point, I was so—, I wasn't thinking this during
the first part of the day, but it must have been on my way here, or
something.  I was thinking, well it's good that I was busy today so I
wouldn't think I had things to do that really weren't that time-consuming,
and then I'd sit around feeling depressed.  And uh, you know, it's kind of
like, originally I hadn't thought that I'd have time to see FNI, and
clearly, well I preferred to see them in the evening, like this time,
rather than go to FNI's during the day.  Because I am pretty busy during
the day.  But uhm, you know, i—, something could have worked out.  
And it was almost as if I had this attitude of holding myself up, a,
and, I don't know, thinking about leaving you until the very, you know,
until it happens, and depressing myself, and everything.  And when I was
thinking about it was good I was busy, I was thinking, well why shouldn't I
be busy?  It seems like in the first case that is a nicer way to live, to
be busy and do things that you like.  And anyway, especially if by not
being busy I end up being depressed.  And it was just a new way to think
and, you know, it was kind of like, my old way would have been to sit home
and cry.  (2-minute silence)
I don't know, I was thinking again of that initial feeling today when
I felt like crying, uhm, and then, you know, my thinking about crying the
last day.  A, and uhm, there's something about it that I don't want to do,
and uhm, I think it's because i, it's sort of, if I'm feeling like crying,
i, it's, you know, out of trying to say, don't leave me, or uhm, last
night, I guess right before the end, I was saying, don't forget me.  And,
and uh, maybe that's why in particular I felt like crying last night, I
don't know.  Uhm, but it's a, it's, I don't know, it just seems to come out
of feeling dependent somehow.  Uhm — (Silence, Sigh, 3-minute silence)
Well, I guess what I was just mainly thinking is, thinking that I
think I want to feel independent.  And then, I don't, I w—, just may be
that this doesn't even exist, but I was thinking, well probably in a lot of
different animal families at some point the parent animals uhm, push the
young ones when they're ready, you know, sort of out of the nest.  And uh,
(Sigh) the, you know, I was sort of imagining the kind of feeling they
might initially have.  But then, they would be able to be independent.  And
I don't even know if there's some uhm, factual information that I have read
about that, or whether I'm just thinking it might be.  And then I was thinking about a book on wolves that I've read, and they are not that way,
unlike what a lot of people had thought.  But uhm, (Sigh) I don't know, I
guess I was then just sort of thinking, well, I feel ready, even if I'm
feeling reluctant.
ANALYST:   Well, it seems like a good note to stop on today.
