*TEXT-PV010086   Tuesday 11 February 1969             3173 2917   27  229
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (2-minute silence) When I came in, I was, uhm, well, thinking of how I was reacting a little bit differently to being late.  And then I immediately realized that sort of in back of everything was this feeling that I was dodging saying anything about why I couldn't come yesterday with the rationalization that, well, you would probably know anyhow so there'd be no point in saying it.  And then I, because of the fact that I hadn't talked about the trip beforehand and had realized that, for whatever reasons I had, I didn't want to tell you about it, uhm, I began to think, well, maybe I should say something about it anyway, even if you had some fair idea of why I couldn't come.  And I think that at that point I realized more than any other time, even though I've said well, pa—, people probably aren't interested, I really had the feeling, I was thinking, well, you might be wondering.  And, and then I just had this strong reaction against it: well, what if you weren't wondering and I sort of stuck my neck out by starting to talk about it as if you were.  And I think that's a reaction I have a lot of times when I'm with people who don't ask me personal questions.  Or perhaps even sometimes when they do, that if anything, they'll be polite but that they're not really interested.
ANALYST: And you are afraid that I'm not interested in things you say.
PATIENT:  I don't know, it just sort of swept over me and, and I, and in a way it seems sort of irrational but it's just such a strong feeling and, I don't know, it's just so, so much easier not to say anything and not to risk finding out that somebody really wasn't interested.  (Silence) I was just thinking about the difference in the way I feel now to the way I felt when I did first come in.  Because I was thinking then about the fact that I wasn't as upset at being late.  And even though I was sort of annoyed at being late as usual and, uhm, the fact that I'd hurried and still hadn't been able to make it, uhm, I don't know, it was, I was thinking of it more in terms of (clears throat) my time that I was losing and not so much that you might be angry at me.  So I came in feeling fairly relaxed about it.  And then after this other thought, I just now feel so very tense and, well, it just seems to be just one part of this, the whole way I relate to people and, uhm, or don't relate to people.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you have a feeling you'd like me to ask you about it?
PATIENT:  No, that thought occurred to me too, that maybe you'll think that's what I'm doing but I don't think so.
ANALYST: Because I remember, you know, once you did make this point about your mother, that, uhm, you would come home and she wouldn't ask you what you did during the day or what happened at school, for example.  And this has a similar ring to it.
PATIENT:  I don't know.  Perhaps I might have liked you to before I started but once I started talking about it, I don't think I — the fe—, the only thought about that was simply that you might think that's what I was doing.  And (pause) because I, I just times when people have asked me questions of that nature, uhm, so often when I answered them, I felt, well, they're not really interested.  (Silence) And I think also telling you the reason, which was simply being held up in traffic, it seems sort of obvious, since you knew I was going to be away and, uhm, again I somehow seem to be drawing the line between talking about something like that, which seems to me just sort of casual conversation, and talking about the things that are really disturbing me.
ANALYST: Except that apparently is really disturbing you.  (Laughs)
PATIENT:  Yeah, well, (laughs) that's the thing that's confusing.  (Silence) I don't know, I, even, even in thinking about a trip back from PTN, I immediately, because I'm here, start thinking about aspects of it that bothered me and it's almost as if I'm not, I think I've said this before, I'm not thinking about the right things if I'm not thinking about things that bother me.  (Pause) Because what I began to think about is the, uhm, we had an accident at one point.  It wasn't very serious but it was, it could have been very serious and it was extremely frightening.  And I don't know exactly how I got after that but I must have been sort of hysterical because I just felt frightened to death.  And, and we have a volkswagen and I just, I don't know, I just felt that any of these cars were just going to run right over us and that we weren't safe at all.
ANALYST: Was this on the way back?
PATIENT:  Yes.
ANALYST: So there was some aspect of the trip that you have some reason to not want to dwell on?  See, what I —
PATIENT:  Yeah, I guess so but —
ANALYST: What I'm really getting at is that your, your feeling has been here today that you didn't want to tell me what was perfectly obvious: there was a storm, of course you were caught in it, which, you know, on the face of it, is, you feel is confusing, it doesn't make sense as it stands.  But it would make sense if that reluctance stood for something else, if you felt that, a connection with that instead of, for example, what you were just starting to tell me about.
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, when I first started thinking of, I started thinking it because of the fact I hadn't been here yesterday.  And, uhm, I don't know, then, the whole thing about not telling you things was what sort of in my mind.  And the fact, here was something else I might have just not told you.  So at that point, it didn't seem to be anything in particular about the trip that I didn't want to say.  It was just another instance where I might not tell you something and I had, and so I was trying to fight against that.  But perhaps underneath it, it was because I didn't want to say some things.
ANALYST: Well, supposing you tell me, then, about the trip.
PATIENT:  I don't know, (laughs) what to tell you.
ANALYST: Well, how about this accident?  If it frightened you it must be worth thinking something about.
PATIENT:  Well, I know one thing that's bothering me about it is that it was a case of trying to stop because a car in front of us stopped and being on ice so we couldn't.  And we skidded around part way and then were hit and we were tossed around face—, so that we were facing the line of traffic, but still on the ice, which meant that cars coming probably would have trouble missing us.  And, ah, we were very fortunate because they did but I, it just seemed that we were there forever with these cars coming down on us.  And they, after a while, the traffic cleared enough so that people could have slowed down if they wanted to and it didn't seem that they even cared and that, I knew they can't know about the ice ahead because we were looking very carefully and we hadn't known about it ahead.  And so it, I just felt as if we were bound to be hit.  But I also was sort of un—, not even unconsciously, but blaming MSCZ for driving too close to the car in front, which I'm constantly nervous about.  I mean, I, just in ordinary trips, I'm nervous about his being too close to cars in front.  And then, and so after having an upsetting accident, I didn't want to be thinking of things that meant I might say things to MSCZ I shouldn't say because he was obviously very upset and hadn't meant to have it happen.  But I think that's what made me feel more upset, that not only was I nervous, but that I was thinking things that I just shouldn't have been thinking.  And MSCZ wanted to be reassured then and I knew that's what I should do.  And so I, I really didn't ever just start blaming him but on the other hand, I felt I couldn't really reassure him that it couldn't have been avoided and all that type of thing.  And, I don't know, the, just the feeling I couldn't give to him then, it bothered me very much.  And it was almost as if it could be reduced to the fact hat I hadn't had my way.  I had wanted him to keep bigger distance and I had actually wanted to stop earlier and get off the road.  And just little things like that, that add up to, I hadn't had my way and then look what happened. (Pause)
And then, I think, to make things worse, after we got off the road we got onto a, well I guess it was PBZ, which was in very bad condition.  And so we were having an awful time moving on it and again I wanted to immediately stop at a motel and he didn't want to but he was obviously very shaken by the accident.  So he was making a lot of mistakes he doesn't usually make when he's driving.  And so this was making me more nervous and more critical of him.  And instead of handling it reasonably, I just got more and more excited and that would make him more excited.
ANALYST: How did you show that?
PATIENT:  Well, I, like when he'd say, "Alright, watch the road this way, I'm going to do this,"  and it might be that he wanted to turn around and he was going to make a U-turn on the road.  And so at one point he got into an exit from Route PCJ, which we'd just come off, but not the particular exit we'd come off and s—, not many cars were using it.  But he said, "Watch" and there were some cars coming and I told him that.  But he had asked me another question and I was telling him what I was seeing, rather than what he was asking me.  And you could hardly see anyway.  And so I, I just started, well, I guess, practically screaming at him, "You can't do this.  You can't do this.  There're cars coming."  And I just had the feeling any minute this car coming was just going to go plowing right into us.  I just, at that point, felt so unsafe in the car, I wanted to I didn't care where we got off the road, just so long as we got off the road.  I mean, in this, I didn't care if it was a restaurant or a garage or a motel or anything.  And so we finally ended up going back to the motel which I'd asked earlier if we could stop at.  And then eventually — we couldn't stay there but eventually we got to one, after a lot more trouble.  But I don't know, at that point, knowing we were going to stay at a motel, I wasn't bothered anymore.  But when I think about it now it does seem to just reduce down to being frightened anyway and then just not having gotten my way. (Pause)
And it's funny, because then, the next day, after we had to have the car repaired and then, uhm, and I, I remember at the time, well there were several things where I would have thought one thing and he thought another.  And he turned out to be right but just somehow they don't, that type of situation doesn't seem to be that important to me.  It's the times when I would have been right that seem to be so very important.  Because our car was still running when we got off the road so I thought, well, probably everything's alright.  And he insisted on having it checked the next day.  Well, then, as it turned out, we couldn't even start it.  And there had to be quite a bit of work done.  But my inclination was, well, let's just drive slowly back to the city and get back in.  And then when we did get down close to the city last night, we were told we, there was no way to get into the city.  And this was by state police and, uhm, MSCZ kept insisting that there was a way and, and we did find a way.  And it was, you know perfectly alright.  And both of those situations are sort of important situations but, I don't know, then I sort of think, well, it was lucky MSCZ was right and that he insisted on doing what he thought. (Pause)
I suppose another thing I don't like to think about when I think of coming back is the feeling I had that I had to get back.  And, and it was ridiculous because I didn't have to.  And as it turned out, not only didn't I but that it wasn't necessary because school was called off on Monday.  But thinking that school might not be called off, because at that point we didn't realize how bad it was in PKW, uhm, and we have parents' day tomorrow, I just felt there were just so many things that were still had to be done.  And (clears throat) I was just thinking of everything in a very inflexible way.  Because that's something else that's on my mind a little because after knowing that I wasn't going to be back until today and then maybe not even today, I realized I had to have a much more flexible attitude toward it and be more relaxed and, and I sort of reevaluated what the parents might really be coming for and how I should feel about it anyway.  And I changed around my plans quite a bit and felt pretty good about it this morning.  But then the teacher in the other room came in, asking me what I was going to be doing on parents' day and it just got me all tense about it again because I just began feeling this intense competition with her.  And to make things worse, she said, "Oh, I like that idea, I think we'll do that too,"  to several things and, I don't know, I suppose I wanted to be doing it alone so I'd get the credit for it if it's a good idea.  And this is what disturbs me about it. (Silence)
It's funny.  Something else occurred to me that is all connected with the trip, that I don't like thinking about.  (Clears throat) And that was the need to make different telephone calls.  And, well, I just knew I had to so I didn't even stop to think about how much I hate doing it.  And I called, well, I called you in the morning but I called different people at school at night, that night.  And it was very hard to get through and it's just the type of situation I would finally say, well, I just, I have tried and so now I can say I couldn't get through.  But I did and then the next day, uhm, I'd left it with my supervisor I'd let her know if it turned out I couldn't make it the second day.  And, uhm, at first it seemed that we would make it because we were coming down to PKW pretty well.  And it wasn't until we were turned away, ah, I'd forgotten what road but right outside of PKW, that I began to think we wouldn't make it.  And so I considered calling her but we got into a traffic jam and there were no phones.  And by the time I, we came close to one, it was quite late.  And it was still indefinite, indefinite whether we'd make it so I decided to wait and if we didn't make it, just call her in the morning, since there' would be nothing else she could do in any case.  And as it turned out, we made it so I didn't feel any need to call her.  And so when she came in and saw me she said, "Well, I would have liked to have heard from you."  She was sort of joking but she really meant it.  And I just told her that it was so late I didn't think she'd want me to be getting her up to tell her I'd be coming, which was sort of our arrangement anyway.  And, I don't know, I think that whole thing I'm feeling guilty that I didn't sort of overcome this feeling I have about telephoning despite the hour and, and that I didn't call her.  But the first night when I called her, her husband had answered and he just sounded really annoyed.  And he might very well have been because I'm sure his wife had been on the phone for half the evening, since school had already been called off.  But just somehow the thought of his answering again and waking them both up and, well, I don't know, I just couldn't face it. (Silence)
And I don't know, I think, too, (clears throat) underlying a lot of this are feelings that, well, I (clears throat) it would have been quite easy for MSCZ and me to just say, "Well, we couldn't make it today."  And for me not to turn up at school, except for my compulsion that I had to be there.  But, uhm, since we did try to make it and I got very little sleep last night, since we got in so late and then this morning I got to school early so I could take care of things, well, physical, just the physical arrangement of the room, which had to be done because the men cleaned the room before, uhm, I don't know, I guess I was thinking somebody should recognize all this work that I'm doing.  And then my assistant didn't make it until quite late.  And the feeling was more, "Poor FEIZ"  and being sorry for her and so I think that was sort of making me mad too.  So I caught.  Myself feeling very unsympathetic toward her before she arrived.  But it was sort of the feeling that, well, or, or the realization that sometimes the way I push myself, it's, I like to think it's because I'm really fulfilling my responsibilities but it's not recognized half the time and it's just to answer some need I have and makes me feel worse, rather than better.
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
