TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: It is cold out.
COUNSELOR: Yeah? Is it? I thought it was supposed to warm up.
PATIENT: Well, it was a little chilly walking. It is not as cold here as it was in New York, but it is cold.
COUNSELOR: Where did you walk from?
PATIENT: 17th street.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: My father was supposed to pick me up at four and he forgot about it. He usually picks me up and brings me to the station.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: I usually get a ride from him in New York. And sometimes he gets things... he forgets things and I guess he never came. I called my mother and she said he took my niece to the dentist, or doctor or something. And I'm like, "Now how am I going to get to the office?" I didn't think I was going to get here. I can't believe it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Also, you know, is it all right if I pay every two weeks?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Would that be all right?
COUNSELOR: Mmhmm.
PATIENT: I think it would be better because I get paid this Thursday, so I think it would be better that way.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure. That is fine. Just keep submitting the insurance every short period of time for us, six weeks or whatever.
PATIENT: And I don't have to give you another form do I?
COUNSELOR: No, I don't think you do. If you do, I'll let you know. From now on, once there is one- Well, actually she gave that back to you didn't she? She gave you that insurance form back.
PATIENT: Oh, I don't know, I didn't even look at it.
COUNSELOR: I think there is a form that come through that [inaudible phrase 0:01:52] issues.
PATIENT: OK.
COUNSELOR: But if you need anything else, I'll let you know.
PATIENT: OK. Fine. So. I was thinking about some things that we talked about last week, but you know, I can't remember now. It is like it is really gone. Usually how it ends up with me is on Tuesday, well, everyday, but Tuesday mostly because I'm leaving at four from work, I have to get done by four so I can get down here. And it ends up that it is a very stressful day. And it always ends up that something happens just before I'm due to leave and I have to get it done real quick and everything. And from that point on, it is like, stress. I got to rush to get on the train, and I got to rush to get off, and then when I get there. By the time I'm sitting here, I want to relax and I'm not thinking about things that are...
COUNSELOR: Yes. Well, it might just help, that in the beginning, since we have identified that it is hard for you to get started in here, it might just help to take a minute for yourself to just kind of check in to where you are. You might need that time.
PATIENT: Well sometimes I do. I get here early enough and I sit there thinking. But for me to do it here would be hard.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: Because of that silence thing. We talked about it last week, about sitting here and being quiet. Sort of makes me feel uncomfortable. Because I don't know you. That's the whole thing, you know?
COUNSELOR: Mmhmm. Mmhmm. So it would be hard to do?
PATIENT: Well it is hard because I feel self-conscious I guess. What is she thinking? What is she going to think of me? What is going on that...
COUNSELOR: That I'll be filling up that silence in my own head, judging you.
PATIENT: Yes. [0:04:35]
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I never realized how much I put that on other people that they judge me. That I'm sitting here telling you that if we were sitting in silence that is exactly what I probably would think you were doing. Judging me in some way.
COUNSELOR: Well it might be interesting to kind of go with that and see what happens. What do you imagine would happen if we kind of just let that unravel? If there was silence and you started to imagine that I was judging you. What would happen? Where would that go?
PATIENT: Well, I would feel uncomfortable. I would want to get up and leave.
COUNSELOR: Would you get up and leave?
PATIENT: I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: Mmhmm.
PATIENT: But I would have really strong feelings that I would want to do that. Probably I wouldn't get up to leave because then what would you think of me? I would be really caught. [0:06:11]
Maybe something like you saying, "My God, she's a professional woman. She does things like this, boy. Professionals are really credited with having a lot of crazy people with it. You know? But I am aware of that now. How much I- Now. But who says they are not judging me? I mean, you could have thoughts in your head and not tell me. Right?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: So what it is, is I need to be all right whether you are or not. Isn't that what it is?
COUNSELOR: Mm. Tell me more about that. It sounds like a concept that you're familiar with. That you've thought about it.
PATIENT: Yes. It is worth being comfortable with yourself. I guess I'm really not comfortable; I'm not comfortable with myself. I guess if I were real comfortable with myself it wouldn't matter what you thought.
COUNSELOR: Or, it might matter what I think, but it might not stop you. What you're describing right now, what happens to you, is that it stops the process for you. Whether it stops you from just kind of coming in here and in the beginning moments just sitting with yourself for a minute to kind of, maybe rushing you want to sit and figure out what you would like to spend this time on tonight. It feels like it is stops you from allowing yourself that. Or whatever else it might stop. It stops the process for you. [0:08:07]
PATIENT: Yes. Maybe it sounds that I want you to dictate, just as you're talking about that, it is like I'm waiting for you to call the shots.
COUNSELOR: All right. Well, let's talk about that. Dictate what it is. What does that mean?
PATIENT: What I'm going to talk about.
COUNSELOR: Dictate what you're going to talk about.
PATIENT: Yes. Like- not dictate, maybe that is too strong of a word. But just sort of give the direction of what the therapy is going to be today.
COUNSELOR: Like you're just, you're going to show up and I'm going to
PATIENT: Like I'm taking a passive role here. That is exactly what I think is going on here. And that just came up. I wasn't aware of that. I guess I'm supposed to be in here talking about what concerns me or whatever. But I come in and I sit here and I wait for you say anything. And if you're silent, I get stressed. It is stressful for me. And I really do want you to be talking, you know. See, it is easier for me to listen. And maybe answer questions. [0:09:45]
When I went to the interview, or whatever, the intake, you just kept asking me questions and I was trying to answer them. I could answer them well as that.
COUNSELOR: So you kind of wish I would do the same thing?
PATIENT: No. I'm aware that it is different. You know. I feel stressful. More stress here than I did with him. You know, if you were asking questions I would probably say, "Well, alright, let me answer this and we'll be talking now." You would be directing where it is going.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about the fact that I'm not?
PATIENT: Stressful. I feel stress.
COUNSELOR: OK. Tell me. Stress. Stress can mean a million different things. What does that mean to you?
PATIENT: Like you're just sitting there. What are you thinking? You know?
COUNSELOR: So you feel frustrated with me?
PATIENT: No, I don't feel frustrated. I feel uncomfortable. I feel like you're judging me. Like, to get your- I don't think you think it is humorous. But you're sitting there and I'm squirming, you know? So I'm getting uncomfortable, so I want to get up and leave.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like, and let me just check this out, because I could be wrong. But it sounds as if there's a part of you that believes that I could direct this if I wanted to. But that for some reason I'm not, I'm just over here watching you squirm.
PATIENT: No, but it must sound like that. The way I said that. Yes. But that like, I don't- see there's this part of me that says you're not there. Really you're not doing that. You're here, you know, to help or whatever. And there's the other part of me, the fear, maybe the little girl or the other that is very nervous. And when you're solemn, just sitting there, and you're just looking at me, why was I answering this? Because I got myself in a circle there. Like I'm answering why I feel stress when you sit there and don't say anything. [0:12:40]
COUNSELOR: What happened just now? You lost your train of thought. Were you aware of another thought coming in?
PATIENT: No. I felt like I was getting verbose. I felt like I was...
COUNSELOR: Like what you were saying wasn't really being helpful in communicating? What?
PATIENT: Yes. I felt like I was getting very worried with that, and it was like...
COUNSELOR: Didn't feel it was where you wanted to go?
PATIENT: Yes. I find this sort of difficult. Because it is always what I'm feeling. And a lot of times I don't know what I'm feeling. I'm really not aware. And you always want to check in with what I'm feeling. I feel I find that hard to do.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Like I wish you would sit farther away. I wish it were a little dimmer in here. These are the...
COUNSELOR: What would that provide?
PATIENT: I don't know, I'd feel more comfortable or something.
COUNSELOR: So you're uncomfortable with the lighting, and you're uncomfortable with how close we're sitting.
PATIENT: How close.
COUNSELOR: But why? Can you articulate that? [0:14:02]
PATIENT: Well because I feel vulnerable. I feel like I'm telling you about why I feel stressed when you just sit there and I have to explain to you things that are very- they're inside of me. Secrets I guess, or whatever. And I find it hard to be talking about myself on any deep level, with the lights bright, and you're very close and you know. It is hard. I feel vulnerable I guess. I don't know. Maybe with the lights dimmer you can't see all of me or I don't know. I feel naked or something.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And it is scary.
COUNSELOR: Yes. So you feel naked and vulnerable and scared? Anything else? Are you aware of feeling anything else around this experience?
PATIENT: I feel uncomfortable, I feel... [inaudible phrases 0:15:26] I feel like I want you to talk now, and just let me work through things.
COUNSELOR: All right, then I will talk for a minute. My sense is, because I want to go back to what I raised earlier. My sense is that there's something else that is there as well. Which are some feelings around the fact that I could do this differently for you. And I'm not quite sure where that is coming from, but I am just wondering if that fits with your experience.
PATIENT: I don't know what you mean.
COUNSELOR: Where I was kind of going before, are you aware of feelings of frustrations you're having about my role in this? Am I over there knowing how to do it differently but kind of making you sit there and squirm. Not making it easy for you. Not asking you questions. Not turning the lights down low. Not sitting on the other side of the room. Those are all things that when I'm hearing, it is likely that you think that I could change, but I'm just not doing it. I am just wondering what feelings are associated with that.[0:17:03]
PATIENT: That you could change how this is going.
COUNSELOR: Yes. You're telling me that you're very uncomfortable. I'm wondering if there is a message in there, which has to do with, "Can you change this for me? Can you do something about this." You're not really saying that, but I can't help but wonder if that is there. Certainly being in that position, I can imagine myself feeling, "Why doesn't she do something about it? I'm telling her how uncomfortable this is."
PATIENT: Gee, I don't know. I'm not aware of that. I am aware that I want you to talk more. And I am aware that, I guess part of your role is to sit there and I guess wait for me and what I have to say. So I'm not aware of me feeling that you need to do something else.
COUNSELOR: So you would like for me to do something else, you would like for me to talk more but there's...
PATIENT: I would like, because it would take the pressure off me.
COUNSELOR: But there is a part of you that understands that I'm not talking for a reason. Because you said it is part of my role not to. That must be kind of confusing.
PATIENT: It is confusing, and I have two things, I have two... I know that in part [inaudible 0:18:57] I've been in the program; this therapy program and I know how to do therapy. I've done counseling classes and everything. So of course, sometimes silence is a tool in it. You just sit and wait for whatever comes out to come out. So I know that may be part of what you're doing. In my own education.
But then again there is the other side of me that doesn't feel comfortable with that because I'm sitting here and I go through the process of thinking that you're judging me. And there is another part of me that says you're not. You know what I mean? I have two things going on all the time. So, you know the thing that I feel. And then the other side.
COUNSELOR: Perhaps having that kind of intellectual understanding of why it might be important for the words to come from you, rather than me, can be of some help in kind of allowing yourself to tolerate the pain and discomfort that you're describing.
PATIENT: Of feeling uncomfortable in silence?
COUNSELOR: Yes. I mean, the point is, as you know from your own treatment and therapy, the point of the silence is not to have silence. That is not what we're looking for. But what I am looking for is a way to give you an opportunity to come in here and explore things about yourself that feel genuine and effective to you. Not to me. And the only way that I know how to do that is to allow you to generate the material. Allow you to discover whatever it is on your mind. [0:21:36]
PATIENT: I know. I know. But there is - You know, I'm so raw, or something. I really feel like there is some sort of a disconnection between my feelings and me. Like maybe I intellectualize them for... no. I guess my experience at the minute calls for me to tell, to say to you, because I don't know, I'm not in touch with it. And this is hard. I find this difficult. Fifteen minutes into the act while I try to get out what you're feeling and everything. All I know is that I feel uncomfortable.
First of all with the proximity to you. The light in the room. It is as soon as I get to any kind of level of feeling; I don't want to do it anymore. I'm aware of that. And I start feeling uncomfortable, and I could just imagine if I got into any kind of deep feeling. Forget it! I don't know what I would do with that.
COUNSELOR: So you're feeling kind of hopeless right now that you're going to be able to unlock any of that given these circumstances?
PATIENT: I'm not aware that I feel hopeless. I'm not aware of that. I'm aware that I am kind of afraid to. I think that as soon as we get into anything real deep, I'm going to be afraid. That is what I feel. That is what I am aware of. Like I don't trust you enough. And it is not you, it is me, I don't trust people. I let them get so close and that is it. You know? I don't let them get so close. I could intellectually tell you, "I do this, I do this and I do this, I have this defect of character." I know a lot about myself. But if I have to sit here and talk to you about feelings, I don't trust you enough. [0:24:36]
COUNSELOR: You're not aware of feeling any hopeless feelings right now, or any kind of giving up kind of feelings right now?
PATIENT: Not here. I want to say that do you think I should feel [inaudible phrase 0:24:53] You're telling me I'm feeling that, so now I'm going to say maybe that is what I'm feeling.
COUNSELOR: No, I'm not telling you.
PATIENT: I know you're not, I didn't mean it.
COUNSELOR: But I guess what I am saying is, your words are describing something that kind of adds up to what I would describe as a feeling of hopelessness or helplessness maybe. And I am just kind of trying to check out, you know, what that experience is.
PATIENT: We're never going to have...
COUNSELOR: This isn't going to work because the light's too bright, we're sitting too close, it makes me feel too vulnerable, forget about it if we ever get to any deep feelings, I'll never be able to, I'm locked up and I don't let people get close to me. You're sending a very strong message to one of us, if not both of us, that perhaps you're not feeling so hopeful that this is going to have an impact on you. That is what I'm hearing in the message. That is why I'm checking this out with you to see if you're aware of feeling that.[0:26:13]
PATIENT: You could say I'm like that. I guess there is a part of me then, that feels like this isn't going to work. Why [inaudible 0:26:29] because am I going to be able to be honest? Not that I'm even aware of hiding anything, you know? But it does sound hopeless when you said it back.
COUNSELOR: I'm also wondering if I've given that it does feel hopeless to you. If there also might be a need for you to have me kind of convince you that it will work.
PATIENT: Yes, I guess so. The part of me that would like to hear, "Don't worry, this is going to work." It is true. Work at what, I don't know. I guess bursting out and being who I am and whatever. There is a part of me that wants to burst out. There is a part of me, not that I'm really a closed person because I'm not. I'm friendly and everything like that. But there is a part of me that is locked shut. I don't know. And yeah I guess I look to you to say, "Don't worry, it is going to work, give it some time."
But, when you start asking me questions and I have to get to these things on a deep level, I get uncomfortable. So it takes talking about that stuff. [0:29:03]
COUNSELOR: Yes. I'm aware of that because you are uncomfortable in here. That is real clear. And I bet to say at this point that I think you're uncomfortable from what you're saying, regardless of whether I'm talking or not talking. Because if I don't talk you're uncomfortable with what I might be thinking of you, and if I do talk, you feel the pressure or an expectation to produce something or answer in the right way or come up with something.
So I think even though of course it is seductive to kind of focus on, you know, how this might work better if we have the lights lower, or if I sat across the room, or if I talk more or talk less. I think the bottom line is, Willa, you are uncomfortable being here. What do we do with that? In a sense, can you live with that? Can we recognize the discomfort and go on? With it. Not discarding it, but with it.
PATIENT: We are going on, aren't we? I just, I mean, I assume I'm going to be all right.
COUNSELOR: What just happened when I said that? Are you concerned that I was...
PATIENT: Going to say "Leave and don't come back. Sorry, this is not..."
COUNSELOR: I didn't mean for it to be communicated in that way. What I meant by going on was kind of in a more abstract way, like can we go on moment to moment with you taking your discomfort with you? What seems to happen when you come in each week is a real struggle goes on within you about being here. And about kind of fighting with yourself over being in such an uncomfortable place.
I guess what I am suggesting is, is there a way that we can kind of recognize that you are uncomfortable, and you'll probably be uncomfortable going through this, and not work so hard at making the discomfort go away. Rather, let it just be there, you know?[0:32:20]
How does that feel to you? What is your response to that?
PATIENT: Yes. It is fine. I think that I can probably go through some discomfort, despite it. Hopefully I can. If I can get over myself sometimes, you know?
COUNSELOR: The other piece of that might be what we were talking about earlier that it is pretty difficult to feel very uncomfortable in front of somebody that you think has kind of the key to unlocking your discomfort. I guess what I'm saying is that I don't have that key. But what I do have is an invitation for us to; together kind of swim through what that discomfort is about. I'm not sure how you feel about that.
PATIENT: What the discomfort is about?
COUNSELOR: And the fact that I don't have a solution or a key to let the discomfort go out the window so that we can go on. In fact, I'm saying the opposite. I'm saying, "Let's go on with the discomfort."
PATIENT: Well, I'm going on with this discomfort. I just think, you know when you said, "Swim through?" It reminded me of a technique that, and it came to my head when you said that for some reason, was Virginia Stitear (ph). Do you know her?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And that is who came into my mind when you said that.
COUNSELOR: Any particular...
PATIENT: No, I just went off for a minute.
COUNSELOR: What? What is going on?
PATIENT: I don't know. It is just, I don't know. [inaudible 0:35:55] I'm having...
COUNSELOR: What? You're having what?
PATIENT: Nothing I just was thinking about that and I didn't hear everything you said. It is sort of like, what about, swim through.
COUNSELOR: So you didn't hear anything I said after you heard that? You just kind of...
PATIENT: I'm sorry. I heard, but...
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: I feel like I, how do I feel right now? I feel like I'm not being honest with you that is how I feel. Like I'm not being honest with you and I really... pressure. I don't want to talk about this anymore.
COUNSELOR: You're not feeling honest and you don't want to talk about it anymore.
PATIENT: I don't feel like pursuing what we're into now.
COUNSELOR: Is there any way that you could try to be more honest now, at this point?
PATIENT: Yes. I could. What do you want me to be more honest about?
COUNSELOR: Whatever you're being dishonest about.
PATIENT: [giggles]
COUNSELOR: It is not funny.
PATIENT: I just like, with swim. See what happens with me is like I know how therapy works sometimes, some techniques and stuff. And when you said, "Swim through it," it reminded me of a technique of mirroring or developing report with your...
COUNSELOR: So was there something about you feeling that it was a technique that brought up responses for you? Are you saying that something about that felt not genuine on my part? That it felt like a technique.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: So how did you respond to that?
PATIENT: I got like... How did I respond?
COUNSELOR: Something happened where you felt you couldn't be real spontaneous with your response to that.[0:38:36]
PATIENT: I guess it is kind of like... Like you're just a person. Honestly, like if you're using the technique, what do I matter anyway? This is a... you use it; I feel I don't trust you. That I mean anything here or anything. It is my trust. I really...
COUNSELOR: Do you think that the denial of trust there that came up right then had anything to do with what I was talking about? Because it seemed to come up pretty suddenly. I know you say it was stimulated by me using a term that felt techniquey (ph) to you.
PATIENT: Yes because I swim. So it would be, I swim and you said, "Let's swim through it."
COUNSELOR: So it felt personal?[0:39:37]
PATIENT: Yes. Well it felt like, I forgot. It just reminded me of something. Not only the word you used, but [inaudible 0:39:44] I may have said her name and "Mirroring" or something. Tell me, I really don't, - What do I do to myself see? I build up all this stuff so I don't have to trust you. Maybe I sabotage my own process.
COUNSELOR: That might well be. But I think what would probably be more useful for us, rather than kind of a global... self... explanation. If we kind of look at what just happened here, we were talking about something that I think is a very vulnerable area for you, as you've said many times. I think tonight you were able to articulate it more clearly than you have since you started here. You know, that whole issue of feeling like when you come in here, you want me to take charge. Yet, at the same time, if I do take charge, you kind of feel put under the spotlight and pressured and the expectations are high. [0:40:33]
I said to you, "We know that now, we know how uncomfortable this is making you. Can we recognize that, acknowledge it and go on with it." Because I don't know another way to do it. I can't offer you another way to do it. This is the way that I know can be helpful. And it seemed to me when I was saying that, and kind of checking it out with you as to whether that would be OK with you, that's kind of when you backed off and got lost and focused on perhaps I was being less than genuine with you, or I was trying a technique or something. I just wonder if that, if your response right now, about the trust and sabotaging yourself and all might have come up tonight around some feelings you have about us talking about how much I can kind of direct this in a way that would be making it easier.[0:42:46]
You said to me that you could do that. But you could kind of go along with that, but my sense is that there are probably a lot of feelings associated with that.
PATIENT: With you directing it?
COUNSELOR: With you saying that I'm not.
PATIENT: Oh, that you're not.
COUNSELOR: Are you aware of having any feelings about that since we talked about it?
PATIENT: Well, that you're not going to direct it, that... The feelings I have is that, or thoughts I had, you know, in a relationship like this, I have a hard time giving my opinion or telling you about myself, answering things about feelings. Because I am an [inaudible 0:43:55] child. As far as growing up I was always like, I was never able to articulate anything. I was told to shut up. So when I'm asked to function in that capacity, to keep talking, keeping up the relationship, whatever, like our therapeutic relationship it is up to me to do the talking and everything. I have a hard time doing that. Because I was taught to listen.
So for you, if you could talk all night, I'd sit there and listen to every word you said.
COUNSELOR: What good would that do you?
PATIENT: Exactly. But see, this is where I think that I am experiencing this difficulty. Because you want me to talk, and I'm having a hard time doing it. I mean, some weeks, maybe when I'm in PMS mode, I'll talk up a storm.
COUNSELOR: I think the question becomes, Willa, is it me that wants you to talk, or is it you that wants you to talk?
PATIENT: It is me, but I don't know what to say. [0:45:06]
COUNSELOR: OK. That is a good place to start.
PATIENT: I wish I could talk. I feel like I wish I could really explain to you and let it all out, this is what is wrong, fix it. You see? That is what I wish. There is a part of me that wishes I would hear from you that you really understand what my plight is and you'll be able to... you know? Like if I knew that you really understand. Do you know how it is to have somebody understand?
COUNSELOR: So if I really understood than I would be able to fix it?
PATIENT: Well, you would be able to help fix it. And because you not understanding has nothing to do with you, it is because I can't articulate what is going on with me. Because there are times I don't even know.
Do you understand? [chuckles]
COUNSELOR: I think you've done a pretty decent job of articulating your feelings about this tonight. Yet, what I imagine is that it must be very frustrating for you, because even though you have articulated some of what you feel, I'm not giving you formulas for a solution. I'm kind of saying, "Yeah, yeah, uh huh, OK, right." And that doesn't feel like it is enough for you.[0:47:26]
PATIENT: It is just I feel like it is very open ended And everything. When I walk out of here sometimes... I can't explain what I mean. It is open ended. We talk And I feel like I'm not even really explaining what is going on. I don't even know what is going on. And, you know, for some reason I think that maybe your role should be more telling me what to do. I know therapy isn't supposed to. I know that. More like directing me, well... This is going to fix this so this is going to help you here. If you do this you're going to experience change there. And again I'm giving you the responsibility instead of taking it on myself. Maybe I am expecting a lot from you. [0:48:52]
COUNSELOR: Well, importantly, maybe you have identified what you want from me. I think it will be very useful for us to have the fact that you haven't been able to identify that. Because then that let's us go on. With an understanding that it is very, very hard for you to come in here and not have me do that. Part of the pain that you're in has to do with you wishing that perhaps you could articulate yourself better, or fix yourself better, as you describe. But not really expecting that you will. In fact, in this case, expecting that somebody else will. That could be very, very frustrating and painful, to feel like there's some [audio cuts off 0:50:25]
END TRANSCRIPT
