<font size="4"><b>The Nineteenth day</b></font>

The night was long and laced with bad dreamswhen I
slept. I dreamed of people I had not thought about in years,
and in each dream the person involved was trying to kill himself.
Each time a nightmare awakened me I began to worry
about Suzy. I worried about money. I worried about the state
of the world. When the brain tired, I went back to sleep, and
the bad dreams began all over again.


At 5:30 in the morning a new attendant turned on the
lights and shouted, "Up, you bums!" He pushed open my
door and glared at meor at any rate I thought he glared.


"Get out of here, you lousy bastard!" The venom in my
voice startled me, but I couldn't stop. "You have to scare the
pants off a guy? You stinker, you! ..."I burst into tears.


He started for me, his face going all red, but when I began
to weep he stopped, and a look of contempt replaced
the flush. "Oh, one of those!" he said, and wheeled and
walked out, slamming the door.


I got up and dressed slowly. I kept saying to myself: What
the hell is this all about? Somewhere, deep in me, I knew, but
I wouldn't let it come to the surface. Instead, I let myself do
whatever impulse led me to do.


At the urinals, when Franklin came fawning and mewing,

[p. <i>140</i>]

"Why don't you wash your face?" I said. "Really wash it?
Wash all over. You stink!"


He thought it over and nodded. "Guess I do," he said complacently
and wiped his dirty hands on a dirty towel.


The Brat came out of the first toilet. "My, what a temper!"
he simpered. I slapped him in the face, and he ran,
blubbering, out to the Day Room.


The other men, pausing in their morning chores, looked
curiously at me, but no one interfered. Larry, shuffling
anxiously away, accidentally knocked a tube of toothpaste
from my hand. I turned on him, but something held me back.
Not that little June bug, I thought, and the thought calmed
me. I washed quickly and went back to my room.


I was sitting there smoking, which was against the rules,
when Len poked his head in. "Thanks, pal. The Brat's really
taken it to heart. Just sitting in a corner and stroking his
face."


"I don't want to talk about it."


"It's that way, is it? Okay. Everyone goes stir crazy now
and then."


"I'm not stir crazy. I'm...." Again the tears; they came
unexpectedlya flash flood of emotion.


"I'll scram," Len said softly.


Teddy was the last straw. He burst in as though it was his
room; his boyish face was aglow from his morning scrub.
"Say, would you write a letter to Jeanne for me? I wanta
tell her we oughta be engaged." His eyes widened when he
noticed my wet face. "Oh, you sick or somethin'?"


"Get out! Get out!"

[p. <i>141</i>]

"Yeah, yeah. You wanta doctor or somethin'?"


"Get out, God damn it!"


He scuttled from the room. The breakfast bell rang, but I
didn't move. I sat there waiting for the new attendant to
come. I heard him shooing Franklin and Johnny along the
hall; then he came back.


"You going to eat?"


"When I get good and ready!"


"That's okay with me."


"Your breakfasts stink, anyway!" After all my arguments
with Jacob about how good the meals were.


"I guess they do," he said mildly. He had control of himself
and wanted to skip the earlier scene, but I wouldn't let
him.


"The whole God-damned hospital stinks! And the attendants.
I don't like to be called a bum," I said righteously.


"I don't like to be called a lousy bastard."


My voice was tender-sweet. "Well, aren't you?"


"Listen," he said, still calm, "I can't beat you up, but I'd
like to. It's against the rules to beat up guys like you. But I
can twist your arm behind your back or I can get a nice
choke hold on you, and you won't be calling me a lousy bastard.
But I ain't going to do that. You know what I'm going
to do? I'm going to lock you in until breakfast's over, and
you can have another nice cry, babykins!"


I made a rush for him, which was what I figured he
wanted, but he slipped out and locked the door. "And don't
break up the furniture or there'll be hell to pay!" he called.


He was back in ten minutes. "I'm unlocking the door.
Guess I got a little sore." He smiled as a mother smiles at a
naughty child who has been punished. The smile said: Now
let's forget all about it and be good.


"Sore isn't the word for it," I said. "You're a stinker!"

[p. <i>142</i>]

"Seems to me you're a stinker yourself this morning. But
some of the guys told me you're all right. Just off the beam today,
huh?"


"Listen," I said, "I know what this is all about. You're
afraid I'm going to squeal on you. Well, I'm no squealer."


"Oh, sure. I figured you wouldn't be doing that." Relief
was all over his face.


"But I don't like you a damned bit. All right, I started it,
but I still don't like you a damned bit."


"That's okay. That's fine. We don't have to be pals, but we
don't have to hold no grudges, now do we?"


"Skip it. And you skip, too. Then we'll both be happy."


"That's it. That's the way to talk." He went out, giving me
a wet-mouth smirk.


I felt a small glow, a glow of victory. Victory over that
lout? But there it was, and it was enough to jerk me back, so
that in a few minutes I was disgusted with myself for feeling
that I had won anything. He <i>was</i> a lout, one of the few
among the fine attendants I had come to know, but what had
I been? And why?


After that it was fairly easy to bring it out into the open.
Suzy had been cross; Suzy had walked away from me without
any explanation. And the little boy of five hadn't liked
that; he had sulked, he had had bad dreams, he had wept,
he had struck out blindly, not caring whom he hurt. Because
he was hurt and he wanted to hurt others; then he would get
attention and perhaps his hurt would go.


It was a relief to admit it, but with the relief was the
despairing thought: It isn't licked yet. I thought I had come
a long way, but I haven't.


The doctor did not come to D-3. He was in Detroit attending
a convention, Miss Brown said. I decided not to say anything

[p. <i>143</i>]

Miss Brown was curious; so was Bates. Somehow they had
heard, but not, I knew, from the new attendant. They said
nothing, yet I noticed that when they were not too busy their
eyes followed me. Or was that my imagination? Was I still
wanting attention? I asked Bates about the new attendant,
and he said the man was a farmer who worked only part time
at the hospital.


"I don't like him," I said.


"I can understand that. Some people don't take to this
work; they just want the extra money. Had trouble with him?"


"No," I lied.


"He's here only now and then. I wouldn't let him bother
me."


The office phone rang. When Bates hung up he said, "Well,
what do you know! Lloyd's wife's come to see him. She's
got the okay to take him down town."


That was big news. Anything like that, anything outside of
routine, was big news on D-3. I was like a child who had
been told that Auntie's coming for a visit! I hurried into the
Day Room and informed Len.


"We got to see her," Len said. "I can't sleep nights unless
I see her."


"They'll show her into the Visitors' Room. We can't
barge in there and just stare at her."


"You'd be surprised what I can do!"


Without shame we followed Lloyd down the hall when
Bates summoned him. Company manners were forgotten, and
I was glad to forget them. I wanted to look through a peek-hole
at someone else. I was tired of peeking at myself.


Len swerved into the Utility Room and got Jacob's sweeping

[p. <i>144</i>]

"I've learned the hard way, which is more than you can
say, you polishing plutocrat!"


He looked over his glasses in mock admiration. "Nice
phrase! Feeling better, eh?"


"Yes."


"Well, grab that broom and let's get going."


We strode, businesslike, down the hall. Bates, coming back
from the Visitors' Room, eyed us but said nothing. Miss
Brown was busy in the Treatment Room and did not see us.
Len pushed open the door to the Visitors' Room.


"The trouble with this hospital," he said loudly, "is that
they want to work you all the time. Sweep, mop, polish,
dust.... Oh, I beg your pardon! Why, hello, Lloyd!"


"Gee," said Lloyd, "you sweeping this time of day?"


"Orders," said Len. "But we don't want to disturb you."


"Oh, you ain't disturbing us. We're going down town."


Len said, "That's nice. I bet your sister will like Traverse
City. It's a nice little town."


Lloyd's jaw dropped. "Sister? She ain't my sister. She's
my wife." He did not introduce us; he stood there grinning.
We bowed as though we had been introduced, and then we
stared. Years ago I had stared, as I was staring now, at a
woman about the age of Lloyd's wife. That woman was sitting
in the witness chair in a Long Island City, New York, courtroom.
Her name was Ruth Brown Snyder, and eventually she
went to the electric chair with her lover, Judd Gray, a little
corset salesman, for the murder of her husband. I think that
every man in the courtroom had his secret thoughts about
Ruth Brown Snyder. She was not beautiful; she was not even
pretty, and she had a dumpy figure. Her ankles were thick
and her hair was stringy, yet she had something that made

[p. <i>145</i>]

Lloyd's wife had the same something. There were thin
streaks of dirt on her neck and her hair needed shampooing.
Her nose was shiny; there were food stains on her shabby
dress; her stockings were wrinkled at the ankles. Yet Len and
I, standing there staring, were instantly aware of the woman
in her. There, I thought when I began to think, is a female
who believes she was put on earth for one purpose. And
perhaps she was.


She did not speak to us; she merely smiled, but her smile
said: Yes, gentlemen, I know, but we can't do anything about
it.


"We'll leave you alone," Len said lamely and walked out.


"Yes," I said, "we'll leave you alone." And I followed
him.


Halfway back to the Utility Room he stopped and leaned
on Jacob's brush. "Whew!" he said.


"That's mild for you."


"I don't feel like cussing. I'm pausing to pay tribute."


"To her?"


"To Lloyd. Just think of living with that woman, going
to bed with her every night...."


"I'm trying not to think of it."


"And only now does he wind up in the nut house. My God,
we did him an injustice! What a man!"


I said, "Stir crazy or sex crazy, you'd better calm down.
You'll have a stroke."


"You're one to talk! You were raping her with your
eyes."


"Yes, and I have bi-focals!"


We sat in the Utility Room on upturned mop buckets and

[p. <i>146</i>]

"A lady's a lay in any language!" Len bellowed.


We had a wonderful time.

