Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I wanted to start...I had looked up some titles for you. So I looked up two. Feel free to browse more on your own if they don't feel appropriate.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So those were both recommended by someone I know who works in focusing on areas of sexual health and relationships and things like that so hopefully those will be helpful. But where did you want to start?
CLIENT: I guess we can start with things with Sydney (chuckle), like we both still...I mean, I'm finally better but he's still a little bit sick. (pause) He's insecure about a bunch of things and I'm not sure how to help him and obviously there's only so much I can do anyways but (pause) insecurities aren't a deal breaker for me but I'd much rather have him be secure than... [00:01:15]
THERAPIST: Are these things that you're just coming to notice and realize now?
CLIENT: No, no, it's been sort of...even from the beginning, he talked about things and so, yeah, it's not like all of a sudden I noticed he's insecure. And usually it happens at night when we're both getting ready to go to bed and stuff like that. He's usually more okay during the day. (pause) which is where I am, sometimes too, when I was depressed and stuff, it was always worse at night.
THERAPIST: Sure, when there's not as much distraction, you're tired, you're often less well defended against things that maybe feel bothersome to you.
CLIENT: So one of the things he was feeling weird about is he was feeling all inadequate because he doesn't have much of a libido right now because he's been sick. I'm just like, "Don't worry about it! (chuckle) Stop feeling inadequate. (chuckle) It's not a problem. We know it's not like...you know, when you're better, your libido will be back. It will all be fine." [00:02:22]
THERAPIST: You were noticing that about yourself last week.
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's a fairly appropriate reaction when you're not feeling well, that that's going to wane. Your energy is going elsewhere.
CLIENT: And I guess... [we both were sick together] (ph) and I guess sometimes because...
THERAPIST: You both got hit hard.
CLIENT: We both got hit hard and then we kept on both being tired and I kept on being, "Well, maybe I'm just being lazy and stuff." But really I did need all that extra sleep and stuff. And last week I didn't volunteer at all like I usually do because I was like, "I'm still sick," (chuckle) which I felt bad about but at the same time I think I made the right decision.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you were pretty sick.
CLIENT: And well, Wednesday I was sick. Thursday it was more I couldn't really bear the thought of getting up and also I was taking care of Sydney. (pause) But yeah... (pause) So there's that. (pause) I guess he also just has a lot of worries about "what ifs" that aren't really that serious and he doesn't think will actually become an issue but he's still like, "What if this, what if that?" And I'm like, "Well, you know..." (chuckle) giving him as honest an answer as I can for these "what ifs" that probably will never happen. (pause) [00:03:45]
I guess the other thing is also his ADD (pause) is a problem with things like he has some drama with his roommates about dishes that like...I guess one of the things like, he's the only one who really runs the dishwasher. They'll all load it up until there's maybe space for one dish left and he's like, "You should run it." And so he'll run it. (pause) And I guess it's whoever's job to do dishes that night also to unload the dishwasher and like, (pause) because what happened last week was we made food on Sunday.
THERAPIST: At his place.
CLIENT: At his place, we made food on Sunday. We unloaded the dishwasher. We put in new dishes. He made food for the house on Monday. He loaded whatever dishes were left and we ran the dishwasher again and there were a couple of dishes afterward from us having popcorn. And also, they had added all these other dishes later and then someone unloaded most of the dishes the next morning but not all of them. And I was like, "Maybe we should unload these others ones." And he's like, "No it's whoever's next job to do it," but then he got a passive-aggressive e-mail. I guess because with that also, some of them will hand wash dishes and so it's there just like, finishing unloading the dishwasher and putting in the dishes. They'll let them stack up and so there is a lot of tension there and I'm just like, (chuckle) you know, I don't like seeing him upset. Part of it is his fault. Part of it is their fault for overreacting. [00:05:37]
When Joan wouldn't do the dishes and stuff I would grumble but I would never send her a passive-aggressive e-mail or anything. I might even grumble to other housemates that are better about doing the dishes and be like, "Ahhh! Why are these dishes...?" And yeah, I would do some of them if it was an issue like (pause) Joan did dishes on Monday night, Eliana cooks on Tuesday night, okay, Joan didn't do the dishes. Let me wash out the big pot so, since I'm around right now, so she'll will have something to cook in.
(pause) So I think in our house we handle it a lot better. They also don't have house meetings. There are only four of them and Sydney is sort of afraid if they did have a house meeting it would be them ganging up on him. I guess...well two of his roommates are passive...well one is passive-aggressive, one is more aggressive, and then one is fine. [00:06:30]
THERAPIST: Does he get along with them in general and it's just this issue or are they not friendly...?
CLIENT: They don't really interact that much because of the tension with this dish issue. He's a lot more comfortable about my housemates and so most of the time, if we're hanging out at his place, we're hanging out in his room. If we're hanging out at my place, we could be hanging out in any of the spaces of the house. (pause) So it's not like he is...I guess they are friendly to each other normally but (pause) this issue overpowers it and it's something that happens almost every week. Because the other thing is he can't really do dishes by hand because he won't notice spots when they're not done so he puts everything in the dishwasher when other people would do pots and pans by hand I think. [00:07:27]
(pause) Where I'm just like, "Okay, that makes sense," because I will see all the spots and everything. Actually yesterday Rebecca (ph) came up to us and was all like...and had the blade of the Cuisinart, and was like, "This is not an acceptable way to put things away," and I was like, "It was neither of us. Rebecca, would I ever, ever, ever put a dish away with stuff on it? No. (chuckle)" So... (chuckle)
(pause) But yeah, it just becomes a big issue and at one point he was looking into possibly moving out but then when we were looking at Craigslist apartments, there wasn't really anything that was suitable. And it's like a really nice place but if there's the dish...
THERAPIST: It's uncomfortable to have constant tension around something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. And he goes back and forth as to whether or not he thinks it's bearable. Then the other thing, because he's so disorganized, his room right now is a huge mess, which I am fine with except that he...(pause)
THERAPIST: He feels very insecure about it. [00:08:37]
CLIENT: No, I mean he does a little bit, but I'm like, "Whatever, it's fine." My room is...well my room is at least more organized chaos and mostly just a matter of not having enough places to put things in, but with him...the thing is he had gotten a refill on his antidepressants and a) he couldn't find that bottle of pills and b) that he'd gotten a new prescription for different antidepressants and also anti-anxiety meds and he can't find that prescription either and also he had to deal with it because he lost his insurance with his job and went back on his parent's insurance. And when you first try to fill a prescription at the pharmacy, they were like, "Oh, well you need this prescription card," where actually it wasn't a separate thing, so they were wrong about that. He was able to fill the other prescription because it was the week after he had lost his job so he still had that insurance through that week but now he doesn't. So trying to find that insurance card, trying to find... [00:09:31]
So it's basically just the issue of I want him back on his antidepressants before I leave for Israel. (chuckle) How do I help him get his ways...? (pause) Because I asked him, "If I were to go through all these papers and ask whether or not you want to keep this or toss it, would that work?" And he said it wouldn't because when he was growing up, that would be something his mom would do. And his mom would all be like, yelling at him, and then he'd end up keeping everything.
THERAPIST: You don't want to replay that pattern.
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckle) I mean, if I could go through and find things that were obviously junk...I mean, I told him anything that's like impressionable, just keep. But things that are obviously junk...
THERAPIST: Is he worried about not having his script before you leave for Israel or you're worried about that? [00:10:28]
CLIENT: I think I'm more worried than he is. He is a little bit worried about it but he's like, "You know, I can go a couple days without antidepressants," but now it's been like three days and I...
THERAPIST: What are you worried will happen?
CLIENT: That he'll fall back into depression.
THERAPIST: Which looks like what for him? Do you know what that's like for him?
CLIENT: Only from what he said. I've never seen him like that but miserable, not being able to get out of bed or do anything, the other things will get worse with the housemates and everything. And also the more depressed you get...that's how his room go into this condition in the first place. I think he was depressed and stuff.
THERAPIST: So what would he have done before you came along?
CLIENT: Probably let it stay and...because we did go through and try to find it at one point but we didn't like go through it and organize all the things. So without me I guess it would stay the same. He does feel a little bit insecure about the state of his room and he wants it to not to be like that. He's just never had the energy and the focus to do it as of late. [00:11:40]
(pause) I don't want to be controlling or anything like that but I also don't want him to...if we were on the same antidepressant I would totally be like, "I have a little bit of a stash. You can take some of mine until you get yours." But we're not. He's on an SSRI, I'm on Wellbutrin. They are very different drugs. I can't just let him have some of mine. Yes, and I know this would be kind of illegal but if it were the same drug, whatever. (pause) You know?
THERAPIST: But they are not interchangeable.
CLIENT: Yeah, they are not. And of course the one SSRI he was on, it was kind of working but he couldn't go above a certain dose without it bothering him and also there was a risk of heart disease. So the psychiatrist gave him a new drug but it's like a different SSRI. So maybe it will work for him but my experience with SSRIs, I tried all the different ones of them and none of them worked. So I'm wondering why he prescribed another SSRI and not a non-SSRI. But I guess Wellbutrin is kind of like the only antidepressant that is not an SSRI? [00:12:49]
THERAPIST: In the newer generation. But, things work very different for different people. You can't transfer your experience to him.
CLIENT: I know. (chuckle) It's just, for me, it's like well if it's the same class of drugs, how would one work and one not work? Aren't they all the same thing pretty much or like slightly different?
THERAPIST: There is...they have...they're all the same class of drugs but that doesn't mean that they're all the same so one versus the other can work very differently for other people.
CLIENT: So what's the actual difference between them?
THERAPIST: They are chemical compounds that might be slightly different but it changes it greatly if you think about sodium chloride is salt but you wouldn't eat just plain chlorine. (chuckle) Small changes can make a big difference. And I'm not a drug manufacturer so I don't know how they go about doing that, but in clinical experience I can see that yeah, someone might try one SSRI and have really uncomfortable side effects and then switch to another one and not have those side effects and get a great benefit from the drug. I see it on the outside. I don't know exactly what's going on chemically with each drug. [00:14:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm glad they figured it out for me after three SSRIs and not like all of the SSRIs.
THERAPIST: Well, the more severe someone reacts - you have a really negative reaction - the less likely you're going to want to take those chances over and over again.
CLIENT: Yeah, the second time I had the reaction, vocal tic, and then third time...but they still had me try a third SSRI after the first two reactions and not just like something else. I was like, "Why would they do that?" because I did have strong reactions to all three of them. (pause)
But, yeah, I guess different classes of very different drugs within the same class can be different. And just for me, because they like...I guess it also...
THERAPIST: Different reactions right?
CLIENT: It's true. Because the Prozac was making my heart rate... (pause) though that also might have been that day that I had a lot of caffeine. But the next day...but it was also at an increased dose. And then the second one caused a vocal tic and then the third one was just like tons and tons of dizziness that was supposed to go away in the first week and it didn't. (chuckle) As I was increasing the drug it was getting worse. (pause) They do cause different side effects. [00:15:25]
THERAPIST: And some people have none of those reactions. It's not completely clear why some people experience side effects and other people don't. Some people do seem to be more sensitive to medications than others. You can't always assume what happens to one person is going to happen to the next or even what happens to one person with one medication is going to be similar to what happens on another medication.
The important piece, I think for you now, is your concern about Sydney. It does sound like you are concerned, not just what happens when you go to Israel but that these are bigger concerns and issues in how he gets along with his roommates and how that affects him, how he takes care of himself, it sounds like...if we kind of extend from what's going on in this particular situation. It sounds like you're a little bit worried about how he does taking care of himself. [00:16:23]
CLIENT: I guess for me I'm more on top of things. There have been times where I've been like, "Oh shoot, I can't find my drugs." But I do that when I have a couple of days left before the meds gone. I don't do it when I'm already out. And I've always found them and I would still freak out but I was able to refill the prescription too. So it was like I might have lost a month's worth of drugs but I had enough of them that it wasn't going to matter and I wasn't going to be without drugs. With him it's harder. I'm like, "Maybe we could find one place in your room that could be the place where you put your pills and prescriptions," but then I feel a little bit hypocritical that I've never done that. Like usually, all the pill bottles that I'm using are on my dresser but my extras don't always make it in there when I'm not using them yet. Usually they'll be in the CVS bag somewhere in my room in one of my bins or something. I usually have a pretty good idea of where they are, except for that one time where I didn't. (pause) Maybe I'm being a hypocrite and stuff but I don't know what to do. It's his life but I don't want him to get depressed when he can prevent it by finding his stuff. [00:17:47]
THERAPIST: Figuring out...it sounds like what you're really struggling with is figuring out what the boundaries are and what role is it appropriate for you to play and what do you feel comfortable with, what does he feel comfortable with.
CLIENT: He doesn't want me cleaning his room for him and I'm okay with that. He was fine with me going through all his stuff trying to find the prescription and stuff and I was like looking and looking and looking. And I was like, "Probably, I'm dizzy, I should be sitting down. This is stupid." So that is one of the reasons why I bailed.
But, he's okay with cleaning...if it's a time that we both are okay with it, cleaning all the things, but he doesn't want to do it...and it's something he's better off doing in the morning or the early afternoon and not (pause) late at night. So I'm very much, "Okay, we will do this when you are feeling up to it." But I was like, "I will not...I will feel a lot more comfortable if you would find your prescription or deal with it or get a new prescription before I go to Israel." [00:18:58]
THERAPIST: And what was his response? You shared that with him, the concern?
CLIENT: Yeah. He was like, "Okay." He was fine with that. He thought it was completely reasonable. And he thinks it's completely reasonable...and it's not like I want to clean his room if he doesn't. It's like he looks at it and is like, "This is all overwhelming, a horrible state of things." (chuckle) (pause) But because it's gotten to the state it has it's going to take a bit of work and I would say, "Okay, we can break it down into chunks," because I really want to find those prescriptions for him. So (pause) I think the only way to conquer something like that is to go about it in an organized fashion. But, I don't know. I'm very much like I will only do this when he's ready. [00:19:51]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you actually have a good handle on what feels appropriate for your relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah. I did actually have him...like, one of the prescription...like the ones that he got, the new scripts, and couldn't find them, I was like, "Okay, well call your psychiatrist and ask if he can call in the drugs." And the one he can't call in is the ADD drug but he still has some of it but the other stuff could be called in. And then we called and like two days later...we had left a message on Thursday evening because I was like, "You should do this now." (chuckle) But then he called on Saturday to the CVS and they didn't have it yet so now he has to call again or search or something. [00:20:44]
But yeah...I don't want to be his mother. (chuckle) And I don't think he wants me to be his mother. And with Jonas he was way more organized than I ever was and Jonas was okay with my room being the way it was but he was a lot (chuckle) more organized than what I was.
THERAPIST: So it feels a little bit different to be on the other side of that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like if you weren't concerned about depression then the disorganization wouldn't bother you.
CLIENT: Yeah and sometimes I'm annoyed that we have to throw all the things off of the bed or like okay, I need a path to get to the other side of the room. The other thing is also when he runs out of clean clothes. I'm like, "Well you need to get...do laundry. (chuckle) I want you wearing clean underwear and t-shirts (chuckle) if nothing else." [00:21:37]
But yeah, other than that, I am totally fine with the messy state of his room. It's just that he needs to find his drugs or he'll...you know I don't know how long because I've never been like...once I've been on the Wellbutrin maybe there was like one day that I didn't...
THERAPIST: You're very responsible about using it as it's directed.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I don't know how long it would take him to start getting really, like withdrawal symptoms if he doesn't take the prescription.
THERAPIST: Pretty quickly.
CLIENT: Okay, (pause) then...
THERAPIST: These are not drugs that stay...you have to take them consistently in order to get the effect. They're not drugs that stick around in your system for a long time, so even within a few days to a week, absolutely he would...not everyone experiences withdrawal symptoms. But if he's going to, he will feel that within three to five days most likely. [00:22:40]
CLIENT: Okay, that's kind of scary because once he gets in that state he won't be able to clean his room and find the drugs.
THERAPIST: Not necessarily. There's a difference between withdrawal symptoms and a recurrence of depression. Going off an antidepressant does not mean that somebody is automatically going to become depressed and have an episode of clinical depression. Lots of times people go off of medication and don't have a recurrence of symptoms. The withdrawal symptoms are different. Some people do experience withdrawal symptoms from SSRIs and those are things like headache...some of the same side effects that people have when they go on them. Not everybody experiences side effects. Not everybody experiences withdrawal effects. And because the medication actually leaves fairly quickly, withdrawal symptoms also go away. They don't come and stay forever. They come and go if you're going to have them and the severity changes. It could be a mild headache and that's it. [00:23:43]
So it's important not to jump to conclusions that he's going to have some horrible effect if he doesn't find his meds right away. He could have a headache and that's annoying but that's...it's completely manageable. He might have a more severe headache and that's painful, but it's not going to kill him. It's unlikely...people don't go off their meds and then all of a sudden have severe depression generally. That's not what I would anticipate would happen at all.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it's like when they're not there. An episode of depression would have lasted longer because say (pause) he's only been on the drugs for like six months or something. But say you were in this depression that would be lasting a year and you get on the antidepressants a month or two in and then five months later you stop, (pause) then if that depression would...I guess it doesn't work that way does it? [00:24:47]
THERAPIST: Well because depression...I mean, it's not the same for everybody, but for some people depression is something that is episodic. So they may have an episode of depression that lasts anywhere from two weeks to a few months and then the symptoms resolve. And some people might have a fairly rapid cycling depression so they might experience another episode of depression that lasts anywhere from two weeks to a couple of months and then another one. And so one thing for some people, medication can help them to not have such frequent recurrences of depression but that doesn't mean if you take away the meds they are all of a sudden going to have another episode of depression. It means that they are more likely to experience another one that they wouldn't have maybe if they stayed on meds or maybe the symptoms are less severe because they're on medication. But it's not like if someone experiences an episode of depression that they are going to be depressed everyday unless they take meds. [00:25:45]
So it's possible that if he doesn't resume the medication that he would have another episode of depression but you don't know exactly when. Situations may have changed a bit since that first time he experienced something and the external situation can sometimes affect...
CLIENT: And they definitely have because when they started he was living in and working there somewhere in Louisiana and now he's in Rhode Island and he has all these friends in Rhode Island because he went to college in Providence for undergrad so a lot of his friends are in the area, which is why he wanted to move up here in the first place so he'll at least have people...
THERAPIST: So having more social support here, something that can help protect him.
CLIENT: And I told him once I get my cell phone number, once I pick up my SIM card in Israel, he can call me whenever, except for Shabbat when my phone will be off.
THERAPIST: But even knowing that there is somebody who cares a great deal about him and having a girlfriend, that social support can be really protective. [00:26:44]
CLIENT: He says when he has panicked and stuff like that I help calm him down and he feels a lot better when I'm around and stuff. He did have a panic attack a few days ago. He hadn't gone on his anti-anxiety meds yet and I think it was going to be Ativan that they prescribed for him. I was like, "Okay, well I think Ativan and Xanax are close enough that I don't feel bad giving you one of my Xanxes. If you had had your Ativan I would be telling you to take this now. Please take this," and he did and he started to feel better.
The problem is he's like I used to be with the Xanax. The, "Oh, well it's not a panic attack. I'm just feeling panicky. It's for x, y, z reasons. Clearly I don't need to take my drugs." When now I'm like, "Okay, I'm feeling panicky, drug." (chuckle) So (pause) it might be a bit to commit (ph) to that, that he really could benefit from taking the drug. [00:27:47]
THERAPIST: Because it just takes personal experience to know what's a situation that feels like it could be helped by the medication.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it just took me so long to do it, like years, before I finally...maybe even in the past two years or so that I was finally feeling comfortable taking them when I need them. Or expanding the definition of...
THERAPIST: ...what you're need is...
CLIENT: ...to be...
THERAPIST: ...allowing it...Well, and I think it's interesting because a lot of the work that we do in here is about trying to expand your flexibility with how you think about things. And I think that's one way in which you have broadened your definition and become a little more flexible and what need is. And it's been really helpful to give yourself that flexibility. [00:28:37]
CLIENT: Yeah, and I can't...
THERAPIST: You can't transfer that to him, no you can't. You can be supportive, and you can share some of what your experiences are but he has to do his own work. You can't do the work for him.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I have explained to him like, "You know, I used to be like you. Then I started taking..." Because I guess also, his psychiatrist said that it was more of a stop gap and that should deal with life issues and stuff and I'm just like, "Well, anxiety comes up no matter what. You can't really prevent it unless you're living in some (pause) utopian paradise land where everything is taken care of for you and you have everything you ever wanted. (chuckle) Things will make you anxious."
THERAPIST: There's always going to be some anxiety in life and there are lots of ways to cope with it, meds being one of them. Allowing yourself to use that when it's necessary and using other methods too. [00:29:39]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I guess also because the SSRIs are also theoretically antianxiety as well right?
THERAPIST: Well, the classifications "antidepressant," "antianxiety," those aren't really true classifications. They get those names because that's what they most frequently help with but yes, sometimes some of the SSRIs — which we kind of call the antidepressants — can absolutely sometimes help with people's anxiety. And also what we call anxiety and what we call depression are very often not quite as distinct as we make them out to be in a diagnosis book. There's a lot of overlap in those things and we have to break things into categories for purposes of research studies where you have to have nice, clean categories but in real life the categories aren't quite as clean and people have things that overlap and could be one or the other. Not everything is as neat as it looks on paper. [00:30:42]
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah I guess. I don't know, I guess whether or not it is the right...because for me I know it's the right thing to do. I don't think there's anything wrong with me taking my antianxiety meds when I need them and I don't think that...maybe it's not ideal but there's no way I'm ever going to not have anxiety in situations and it's just the way it is no matter what. So for me it's like a solution and not a stop gap. And so the fact that the psychiatrist told him that, I'm sure it also won't necessarily help with the whole, "You're feeling anxious. You should take this."
But maybe the psychiatrist is right and maybe it is that way for him but I don't know, I feel like everyone should be able to take a Xanax or something when they need it as long as you don't become dependent on it. And still, it's not like I take one every day. I was feeling anxious last night and I took one and before that it had been a couple of weeks or something. When I broke up with Jonas I was taking them every day, sometimes multiple times a day. [00:31:53]
THERAPIST: But you're not anymore.
CLIENT: Not anymore.
THERAPIST: You got through that period.
CLIENT: Yeah, so... (pause) I guess if it's a short bout of anxiety that is only a couple minutes or something, maybe that's what healthy people...I don't know what healthy people feel when they feel anxious.
THERAPIST: That's right, and it's very hard to know what somebody else is feeling which is why you have to kind of trust yourself and also he has to go through his own process of knowing, "What's a level of anxiety that I feel comfortable using medication for? What's a level of anxiety that I can manage in another way?" It's hard. You can't transfer your experience into somebody else. And you can ask lots of good questions to try to understand what somebody else is experiencing but I can't ever truly know what it feels like for you to be panicky and you can't truly know what it feels like for him. We do our best to understand somebody else's experience and share your knowledge to help him manage that, but everybody only really knows their own experience. And you've had a lot of experience with your own anxiety and your own history to be able to try to predict what's happening and to know what...when it's useful to use a pill, when it's useful to talk to a friend, when it's useful to try to talk yourself down. These are things that you've tried and used and you know when...you have some idea of when what's most effective or what will work when. [00:33:25]
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's not like I've been telling him every time that he's had some sort of insecurity. There's the one that I actually gave him one and then there was another time where I'm like, "Do you want to take one in case?" And he was like, "No," and I was like okay, I'm not going to try to convince him. So, it's not like I'm always telling him all of the time. And I guess I just wish that...I gave him the Xanax and nothing bad happened. I know it's illegal but is it really that bad that I did that and if I continue to do that until he gets his prescription filled...? I guess what I need to do is actually go online and research the drug interactions with his...well, if he can't find his antidepressant then...
THERAPIST: There's nothing to interact with! (chuckle)
CLIENT: It'll be ADD meds so I have to just look up that interaction and make sure there's nothing there. But (pause) if he can't get that prescription, I kind of want to be like, "Okay, here's a bottle of my Xanax. Please take it when you need it." (chuckle) But especially leaving him there is not too (inaudible). I mean, he has therapy every week. He meets with a psychiatrist, I don't' know, maybe once a month, once every other month or something. [00:34:41]
THERAPIST: But these are also things that he can be talking about with his therapist.
CLIENT: Yeah, like there have been a couple times I'm like, "You should talk about this with your therapist."
THERAPIST: And does he feel comfortable doing that?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just whether or not he has all these other things to also talk about with the therapist. And there was one point that I was like, you know, he's feeling down for a while. I was like, "Maybe you should schedule an extra appointment," but he didn't. (pause)
THERAPIST: You sound really concerned.
CLIENT: Yeah, I am. I don't know. I'm just afraid that I don't know...he's in love with me and I haven't necessarily fallen in love with him yet. And I can't even identify it or like...I'm all confused. I really don't want to be like [inaudible] and I've never tried...I've always... (pause)
THERAPIST: What do you feel? How would you describe your feelings for him? [00:35:43]
CLIENT: I like him a lot. I'm attracted to him. I enjoy making out with him and stuff. (pause) I'm always...I guess also because I've been seeing him so much, it's never like I'm away from him that long. I imagine when I go to Israel I'll be missing him a lot but because we've been together so much it hasn't been that much of, "Oh, I'm missing him and I'm really, really looking forward to seeing him," because it's sort of taken for granted that I am seeing him. Right now we're spending pretty much every night together. And since we're both unemployed we have all this free time. So like... (pause) I guess it's become really intimate really, really quick.
THERAPIST: Yeah. You've known each other how long?
CLIENT: A month.
THERAPIST: That's not a lot of time in the grand scheme of things so I think it's a lot to expect of yourself to know with such certainty a really intense emotion like love. That's a very intense, strong feeling to describe.
CLIENT: And with Jonas it took a couple of months.
THERAPIST: And that was also in a different situation. I mean, you met Sydney at a time that you weren't really fully over Jonas even. So it's a different place to be coming from. But it sounds like the feelings you have are wonderful feelings to have. To feel attracted to someone, to really like someone, to enjoy their company, to be excited to see them, those are not feeling to feel badly about. Those are nice feelings to have for someone and I guess it makes me feel sad for you that those are getting kind of...I guess, not jaded. That's not the right word. But you're kind of missing out on all the niceness of that by pressuring yourself to know whether or not you are in love with him. I wish you could enjoy those nice feelings. [00:37:42]
CLIENT: If he hadn't told me he loved me I would be fine where I am.
THERAPIST: Right, so be fine. Let yourself be fine. Let yourself enjoy having just met someone that you really like and spending the past month with someone to whom you're really attracted. Let yourself enjoy that stuff, and if let him deal. If he already has fallen in love with you and knows that with certainty, well great, you have someone who's in love with you.
CLIENT: I mean I've always if he's told me that he loves me I obviously tell him that he's really amazing and I really like being...I will tell him things that are true and I will tell him things that are true very, very often. But it's just hard when he tells me he loves me and I'm like, "I want to be able to say I love you but I don't want to be lying."
THERAPIST: But you just don't move that fast.
CLIENT: I don't move that fast.
THERAPIST: And it's also okay to let him know that he has moved really fast for you and that maybe he could share other things instead. Maybe he could hold off on using love and share the other things he thinks about you. But he wants to tell you that you're amazing. [00:38:52]
CLIENT: He'll also tell me that I'm amazing and sexy and all those other things too so it's not constantly, "I love you. I love you. I love you." But it happens enough that it's just like...
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like it feels like pressure.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't think that's what he means but he feels like he wants to be honest and open about everything and I want him to feel that way. It's just (pause) then there's that one thing that I can't really say back to him. And he knows that...and I think he's okay with the fact that I'm being honest with him, not in love with him yet but there was one point that he was worried that I didn't love him. What if I never loved him? And I'm like, "Oh shoot, I have that worry too! I was hoping that it wouldn't occur to you. (chuckle)" And that's what I try not to say things. I don't want to be [inaudible]. [00:39:50]
THERAPIST: But it's only been a month and you have all these wonderful feelings.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And being with him feels so comfortable and we're so alike and it's good, I think, most of the time. And maybe it's also just the fact that like with Jonas, I wasn't seeing him every day and there is more distance so a) I was missing him and b) the excitement of seeing him but also in a way thinking kind of like he was way, way above me and then when he did love me it was...at that point I sort of knew that I was going to get there eventually but still sort of like I had earned his love which is messed up and wrong and I don't think that's how he felt and that I shouldn't be earning someone's love and there should be nothing wrong with it being but because it was there from the beginning it's like, I guess, less of a (pause) special thing.
THERAPIST: It didn't feel like a challenge. [00:40:57]
CLIENT: Yeah, and so I don't feel...it shouldn't be a prize. It really, really shouldn't but... (pause)
THERAPIST: It sounds like that's a little bit what it felt like.
CLIENT: And I feel like I'm...I know that this is wrong. I do realize that this is unhealthy. I don't know what to do about it. I was talking to him about all of this last night and about how I felt when Jonas broke up with me and all that and this morning he told me that he was really glad that I was able to talk to him about Jonas last night and stuff. (pause) Still, (sigh) what do I do? How do I make myself not messed up?
THERAPIST: I wonder what it would mean to accept where you are. [00:41:46]
CLIENT: (pause) In terms of?
THERAPIST: In terms of your feelings for Sydney, your feelings for Jonas.
CLIENT: (pause) Well it's really hard to do that without worrying about the "what if I don't fall in love with Sydney," you know? And there's been a couple times — it's happening less often now — but I've...I've always stopped myself and never slipped up out loud but wanting to say Jonas (chuckle) but I meant Sydney. I've always caught myself because (pause) it's...yeah. I'm just wondering if that's me because it's not like I'm thinking about Jonas then but just maybe me...I'm used to saying it. Like in high school there'd be lots of times that I'd be trying to hail a friend or whatever and the first thing that would always come out would be Sara because Sara was my best friend and lots of times (overlapping voices) Sara. So, I guess it could be just that? (chuckle) But I feel that I'm glad that I've never actually done it. [00:43:01]
THERAPIST: When do you find yourself thinking that?
CLIENT: It's not when we're making out or anything but (inaudible) it will happen but I think it's more like...I don't even know a good example I can give you. (pause) It doesn't help that both of their names are one syllable. (chuckle) It really doesn't. But yeah, I can't really give you a good example. There have been instances that it's happened but I've forgotten mostly what the trigger was. I think one time at one point I was talking to one of the housemates and Sydney wasn't around where I did slip and I said Jonas and I was like, "Wait, no. I mean Sydney." (chuckle) So, there was okay because it was them and not him but (pause) yeah. [00:44:06]
THERAPIST: It probably doesn't mean anything. It doesn't have to mean something. You spend a lot of time in your head trying to analyze what's going on. I think it could just be that you're thinking and you're making comparisons from one relationship to the other trying to understand your feelings and so your headspace is around Jonas, and not to say comparing Jonas to Sydney but comparing your reactions and your experiences. And it's interesting that when I said, "When do you find this happening?" and you're like, "Not when we're making out or fooling around." I don't remember which words you used. But that's because you're in the moment then right, and you're not in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah that's true.
THERAPIST: So I wonder what would happen if you let yourself be where you are, be in the moment. I wonder if this happening, the thought of this happening, would be less. [00:45:08]
CLIENT: Maybe and maybe it just has to do with my whole overall anxiety about things, especially when I had gotten really bad with sending e-mail to the wrong person, checking...
THERAPIST: It's a similar type of worry.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe it's that.
THERAPIST: I think, with all of the things that you've talked about today — worrying about what feelings might develop, what feelings might not develop, worrying about what's going to happen to his anxiety or to his depression — letting yourself actually be where you are, he's not significantly depressed right now. You are in a good space in your relationship. You've met someone that you really like and are attracted to. Let yourself be where you are and there's going to probably be less worry there for you than when you jump to the "what ifs" and the "whens." [00:46:06]
CLIENT: And I think when I go to Israel I will probably miss him a ton and I'll get back and...
THERAPIST: Well, see what happens. Let yourself be in Israel when you're in Israel. Be in Massachusetts when you're in Massachusetts. Be in your body rather than necessarily in your head. Let yourself experience that.
CLIENT: (pause) Oh, by the way, with Israel I was wrong. I come home on the 20th.
THERAPIST: Okay, does this change our dates?
CLIENT: Yes, it does, because...
THERAPIST: I think we were scheduled to meet on the 19th.
CLIENT: On the 20th.
THERAPIST: On the 20th? Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I thought I got back on the 19th and I was like, "Oh, yes of course I'll be back on the 20th." Let me see what I had written here..."therapy at 11:30 am." So the flight's going to get into New York at 7 am.
THERAPIST: That's going to make it a little bit tough for you to be here at 11:30.
CLIENT: So, I'm not going to be here at 11:30. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I could do late in the day that Tuesday if you are up for that. You may be very tired. I don't know if you want to commit...
CLIENT: How...like at 5ish or...?
THERAPIST: My last appointment of the day is from 5:00 to 6:00, so you're certainly welcome to that. It's up to you whether you think you're going to be up for therapy that day. [00:47:18]
CLIENT: I think so. Let me calculate. So we get in at 7:00. If it takes us two hours to get through customs or something like that, that would be 9:00, and then we would drive home. That could take up to five hours and that would be 2:00 and if I got here at 3:00. I think I can make it but I'm going to, after this, call my mom and check about the timing and see if I could do it. I know I'll be home in time for my rehearsal that night at 9:20 pm.
THERAPIST: I also could meet with you on Friday the 23rd.
CLIENT: Maybe yeah, we should probably just do that instead.
THERAPIST: That gives you some time to catch up on sleep. So the 23rd I can offer you (pause) I believe...what can I do? 2:30?
CLIENT: 2:30 would work.
THERAPIST: And then back to our normal Monday at 1:30 on the 26th.
CLIENT: Okay. (pause)
THERAPIST: So 2:30 on the 23rd. And then you don't have to worry about jet lag and customs.
CLIENT: Yeah because it's probably doable but you never know with...yeah, if the flight gets delayed or all sorts of crazy things could happen.
THERAPIST: Right. Alright well, I will next see you then. Have a safe flight!
CLIENT: Thanks! [00:49:20]
END TRANSCRIPT
