<font size="4"><b>Imaginal Procedures</b></font>
[p. <i>881</i>]

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Imaginal procedures are primarily used in exposure
therapies for children with anxiety problems but are
also often used to assist in the development of coping
skills for a variety of child problems through the use
of role plays or imagery in relaxation training or cognitive
restructuring. With respect to exposure therapy,
imaginai exposure requires the child to confront the
feared stimuli in a way that typically produces less
anxiety than an in vivo or real-life exposure. Children
are asked to imagine themselves at various degrees
of confrontation with the feared object or situation.
Typically, anxious children focus on threat in their
environment. The anxious child overestimates the
likelihood of threat, overestimates the consequences
of the threat, and underestimates their ability to cope
in the face of the feared stimulus. As a result of these
interpretations, the child avoids the feared situation,
and the anxiety is maintained, as the child is unable
to experience evidence contrary to his or her beliefs.
Imaginai exposure allows the child to, in a gradual
way, face the feared stimulus. Imaginal exposure produces
physiological reactions that mimic those experienced
during in vivo exposure and hence is typically
used as part of gradual exposure therapy. By repeatedly
facing their fear, children learn that they are able
to cope with the feared stimuli and their negative
expectations are not as likely to occur as predicted.
Consequently, children experience a reduction in their
anxiety. Gradual exposure involves creating a list of
ascending steps of exposure to the feared stimulus,
beginning with the least fearful and culminating in
in vivo exposure to the most feared situation or object.
The exposure is repeated and prolonged until the
child is less fearful of the situation. The aim is not to
reduce all fear and anxiety completely, as some stimuli
demand a degree of developmentally appropriate fear.
For children, beginning the exposure hierarchy with
an imaginal exposure allows them to practice their
skills in a less anxiety-provoking situation than if they
were to face the situation in real life.


Imaginal exposure differs somewhat from systematic
desensitization. During systematic desensitization,
the child imagines the feared stimulus (as described
above) but does so following deep muscle relaxation.
The purpose of this procedure is to pair the feared
stimulus with the feeling of relaxation. In contrast,
imaginal exposure requires children to experience
anxiety when facing the feared stimuli. The children
are provided with new information regarding their
ability to cope in the face of anxiety and regarding
their expectations of threat in the situation.


One of the benefits of imaginal exposure is the
convenience of applying it in an office setting. The
therapist and the child can conduct exposures within
the therapy session in a controlled environment. For
many childhood fears, direct exposure to the feared
stimulus may be difficult or impossible. For example,
in vivo exposure to death, trauma, cyclones, tidal
waves, disease, violence, dentists, or electrical storms
may prove expensive, impractical, or unethical. Using
imaginal procedures, the therapist is able to allow the
child to confront the feared stimulus when actual
exposure is not possible.

[p. <i>882</i>]

The therapist may also find that imaginal exposure
can be used when the child is experiencing difficulties
recalling or accessing the cognitions and physiological
reactions from past anxious experiences. If the
therapist encourages the child to imagine the situation,
the child may be in a better position to verbalize
the experience and report anxious symptoms and the
severity of the fear.


In addition to imaginal exposure for childhood fears
and anxiety, imaginal procedures such as rehearsing an
imagined event are often used as a method to reinforce
skill development for a variety of child problems.
Once a skill is taught, the therapist and child can make
up a play or act out an imaginary scene in which they
could use the new skill. Using tag-along techniques,
the therapist can first act out the scene, and then on the
next rehearsal the child's involvement can be gradually
increased. The imaginal procedure allows the child to
practice the skill in a less stressful environment and
receive feedback from the therapist (the collaborative
and support coach) regarding the use of the skill. With
continued feedback and practice, the child is able to
internalize the concepts, gaining confidence and a sense
of self-efficacy with the skills, requiring less intervention
from the therapist.


Covert modeling is another imaginal procedure
used in skill development. Covert modeling involves
the child imagining a model successfully performing
the skill. For example, a child who is learning appropriate
ways to express anger can imagine a child
(model) responding assertively to a situation rather
than aggressively. The client imagines a model in the
middle of a video game responding to a request from
the model's mother to clean up his or her bedroom:
"Mom, I'm in the middle of a game. Would it be okay
if I finished the game and then cleaned up my room?"
Covert modeling has shown to be as effective as overt
modeling. Some evidence has suggested that in combination
with behavioral rehearsal, it may in fact be
superior to overt modeling.


Imagery is often used to assist children in confronting
anxiety-provoking situations such as using
their favorite superhero or animal to help them face
the situation. The Coping Cat and Coping Koala programs
for the treatment of anxiety use an image of an
animal that moves from being a fearful "scaredy cat"
to being able to manage anxiety-provoking situations
as a "coping cat." Imaginal characters have also been
used in cognitive restructuring techniques with
children. Children choose their favorite detective from
cartoons, television, video games, or movies to help
them collect evidence for their unrealistic thoughts.


Relaxation therapies for children typically
include imaginal exercises. For example, when
teaching the difference between tense and relaxed
muscles, the therapist can encourage children to
imagine that they are a robot with stiff tense muscles
and a jellyfish with very relaxed muscles. This imaginal
exercise provides an opportunity for the therapist
to reinforce the skill the child has learned. The
therapist may also make use of other images
throughout the relaxation. For example, children can
be asked to imagine themselves in their favorite or
peaceful place (commonly suggested places are a
secluded beach or in their bed under a warm blanket).
For children, this is a particularly useful
method of teaching the relaxation skill.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


Few studies have systematically examined the use of
imaginal exposure in children and adolescents. More
often the efficacy of the technique is evaluated in conjunction
with in vivo exposure. Cognitive-behavioral
treatments for childhood anxiety, including imaginal
exposure, have shown to be effective in reducing anxiety
and fear. Separate parts of this treatment package,
that is, imaginal exposure, have not been evaluated in
controlled trials.


In adult studies, however, imaginal exposure has
been shown to enhance the efficacy of in vivo exposure
techniques, that is, a combination of imaginal and
in vivo exposures is more effective than in vivo exposures
alone. However, in vivo exposures have consistently
been shown to be more effective in reducing
fear in adults compared to imaginal exposure alone.
This evidence suggests that imaginal exposures should
be used in conjunction with direct exposure to maximize
outcome.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET POPULATIONS</b>


The imaginal exposure technique is documented in
manuals for the treatment of anxiety disorders such
as generalized anxiety disorder, separation anxiety disorder,
social phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder,
school refusal, panic disorder, specific phobias, and
posttraumatic stress disorder.


The use of imagery, imaginal role plays, or covert
modeling, however, can be included in interventions

[p. <i>883</i>]

<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


One of the complications with imaginal exposure is
that the therapist is not able to control the imaginal
situation. The child could imagine anything and not
necessarily what the therapist has instructed. This
may potentially reduce the efficacy of the exposure.
However, studies have indicated that participants are
able to adhere to the instructions of imaginal procedures,
and in most cases this is not likely to be a
problem. Nevertheless, some children may have difficulties
imagining the situation and may begin to think
of something else not related to the feared situation.
For children who have difficulty imagining the situation,
additional cues or props may be required. Some
studies have indicated that when clients are asked to
elaborate on the scenario, outcome of the procedure is
improved. For example, the child may require an
audiotape of cues from the environment or the therapist
and child may need to construct an elaborate story
that the child reads aloud to allow the child to focus
on the task at hand.


Some adult studies of posttraumatic stress have
reported a temporary exacerbation of symptoms following
imaginal exposure. This is likely to come about
if the child continues to escape the imaginal exposure
without a reduction in fear or a change in beliefs.
Research on thought suppression suggests that attempting
to escape or avoid thoughts leads to increased
intrusions and anxiety. It is important to ensure that the
child is taught skills to manage the exposure and
reduce the likelihood of excessive escape and avoidance
behavior. Nevertheless, most studies show that
imaginal exposure is superior or equivalent to cognitive
therapy alone in reducing PTSD symptoms in
adults.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Tony," an 8-year-old boy, received treatment for
severe fears of going to the dentist. Tony would begin
to cry at the mention of the dentist and would experience
severe temper tantrums when his parents talked
about booking a dental checkup. Tony reported having
stomachaches when he thought about the dentist and
experienced a strong sensation "to get away." During
the assessment, Tony reported that he was worried the
dentist would use sharp instruments and hurt him.
Tony had avoided going to the dentist for 3 years. His
mother was concerned that he had a hole in his tooth
and wanted to take him to the dentist but feared that
it will be too stressful for him.


The therapist worked with Tony and his parents to
build a hierarchy about going to the dentist. Given his
extreme fear reaction regarding visiting the dentist,
imaginal exposure to the feared situation was warranted
to allow a more gradual exposure to the dentist.
Also, repeated visits to the dentist would prove costly
for the family. Tony built a hierarchy where the first
four steps involve imaginai exposures only. Tony and
the therapist determined which parts of the dentist
would be the most and the least distressing. The most
distressing parts included the sharp utensils being
placed in his mouth and the experience of pain, while
the least distressing parts were sitting in the chair and
seeing the utensils.


For the first imaginal exposure, the therapist
described a situation that caused moderate levels of
anxiety in the child. The first step on the hierarchy,
described below, was to imagine a visit to the dentist
for a quick checkup with no interventions:


Therapist:


Tony, close your eyes and imagine you
are walking into the dentist's office. You
are wearing your favorite t-shirt. You notice
the cool blue walls of the dentist's waiting
room and a row of other children waiting
their turn to see the dentist. You start to
feel nervous. You can feel the butterflies
in your stomach and your legs feel a little
shaky.


Tony, what is your SUDS [Subjective
Units of Distress] rating on a scale of 1 to
10, where 10 is really scared, the most
scared you could be, and 0 is you're not
feeling worried at all.


Tony:


Three. A little worried.


Therapist:


Okay, a little worried. So, you say to
yourself, "I can handle this. I know that
this dentist is nice. I will be okay." You
take a couple of deep breaths and
remember to relax all the muscles in

[p. <i>884</i>]

Tony, what is your SUDS rating now?


Tony:


Five. Pretty worried!


Therapist:


Okay, pretty worried. The dentist says,
"Hello Tony. I haven't seen you for a
long time. How about we just have a
quick look at your teeth and then you can
go. How does that sound?" You feel nervous
and you have this strong feeling
that you want to get out of the chair and
run back to Mom. But then you remember
your coping skills. You know that
you can handle it. You think to yourself,
"There were a lot of kids coming out of
the examination room while I was waiting,
and they were all okay. It probably
won't be as bad as I think." You remember
the reward Mom and Dad have
planned for you if you can make it
through the appointment. So you say to
the dentist, "Okay." You move toward the
chair and climb up into it. The chair is
cold and covered in plastic that sticks to
your legs. All of a sudden you see the
tray of utensils. You notice the sharp pick
that is used for finding holes in teeth. It
has a pointy bit at the end. You notice the
other tools as well. They look cold.


Tony, what is your SUDS rating now?


Tony:


Six. Still pretty worried.


Therapist:


Okay, still pretty worried! You can feel the
sick feeling in your stomach. You know
you need to stay in the chair until you
don't feel as nervous. The dentist asks you
to open your mouth, but it feels like it is
wired shut. You remember the skills you
have to manage your worry. You remember
to relax your muscles like a jellyfish
so your mouth can open up. The dentist
says, "Wider, wider." You open your
mouth wider and feel the skin around your
mouth stretch. The dentist says, "Good,
Tony. Now I am going to have a quick
look in your mouth. I will not be using
any utensils, only my hands. Okay?"


You grunt, "Owkway!" with your mouth
still open. You can see the dentist as she
comes closer and the big bright light is
shining over your face. The dentist moves
in even closer and you can smell the rubber
gloves on her fingers. The gloves taste
kind of funny. She pokes around in your
mouth and a second later says, "Okay,
Tony. All done. Wash your mouth out with
this." She hands you a cup of pink colored
water. "Spit it out here." You wash your
mouth out with the funny-tasting liquid
and spit it out and watch it swirl down the
drain. Your mouth feels fresh. You hop
down from the chair and feel so proud of
yourself. "I did it. I felt nervous about
coming but did it anyway. Nothing bad
happened. I was able to handle my worry.
Now it is time for my reward!"


Tony, what is your SUDS rating now?


Tony:


Zero!


The therapist and Tony discussed what they learned
from the practice and then planned the next exposure.
Tony decided that he wanted to practice the same
exposure without the therapist's help. On the next
rehearsal, Tony talked through and elaborated on the
imaginal scenario. Once Tony developed confidence
with the scenario, the difficulty of the exposure was
increased. The next exposure involved the dentist
using the dental instruments and causing mild discomfort
in his mouth. Following habituation to the
scenario of mild discomfort, Tony developed a story
of increased difficulty involving moderate pain. In the
next story, the dentist found a hole in his tooth and had
to remove his tooth. The story involved feeling the
pain but developing strategies to deal with it.

[p. <i>885</i>]

Tony completed a number of imaginai exposures for
homework that involved writing out the stories and
reading them aloud at home. Once Tony felt more comfortable
with the imaginal exposures, he was ready to
move on to the in vivo exposures. The in vivo exposures
consisted of visiting the dentist to make an
appointment for his sister, sitting in the dentist's chair
while his sister received a checkup, practicing at home
setting up a dentist's chair in the lounge room and
having Mom brush his teeth, putting a toothpick in his
mouth, visiting the dentist to make an appointment for
himself, and, finally, visiting the dentist for his own
checkup.


<i>Jennifer L. Hudson and Elizabeth Seeley Wait</i>


<i>See also: Cautela, Joseph R. (Vols. I &amp; III), Covert
Conditioning With Children and Adolescents (Vol. II),
Covert Control (Vol. III), Covert Positive Reinforcement
(Vols. I &amp; III), Covert Reinforcer Sampling (Vol. III),
Covert Sensitization Conditioning (Vols. I &amp; III), Lazarus,
A. A. (Vols. I &amp; III), Self-Control Desensitization (Vol.
III), Systematic Desensitization With Children and Adults
(Vols. I, II, &amp; III), Wolpe, Joseph (Vols. I &amp; III)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Dadds, M., Bovbjerg, D. H., Redd, W. H., &amp; Cutmore, T. R.
(1997). Imagery in human classical conditioning.
<i>Psychological Bulletin</i>, 122, 89-103.


Foa, E. B., Zoellner, L., Feeny, N. C., Hembree, E. A., &amp;
Alvarex-Conrad, J. (2002). Does imaginai exposure exacerbate
PTSD symptoms? <i>Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology</i>, 70, 1022-1028.


Kendall, P. C. (2000). <i>Cognitive behavioral therapy for
anxious children: Treatment manual</i> (2nd ed.). Ardmore,
PA: Workbook.


Mash, E. J., &amp; Berkley R. A. (Eds.). (1998). <i>Treatment of
childhood disorders</i> (2nd ed.). New York: Guilford Press.


Rapee, R. M., Wignall, A., Hudson, J. L., &amp; Schniering, C. A.
(2000). <i>Evidence-based treatment of child and adolescent
anxiety disorders</i>. Oakland, CA: New Harbinger.

