*TEXT-PV010597 Wednesday, 22 December 1971  2445
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (5-minute silence) (cough) I think I'm mainly thinking the way I have been all week of ah, this feeling of trying to get things done and not thinking I can before Christmas.  And, I don't know, I haven't even gotten to the point of thinking about what I'm doing for the Christmas dinner.  And I've been thinking more about just the co—, all these cookies that I've been baking.  And then I was, I sort of was thinking about yesterday and, and the feeling that, uhm, I might have offended you or just, I, I don't know, I think it still is a question to me yesterday in what way or why I'd feel like that.
But then I just keep going back to thinking about getting all these cookies done and, I don't know, sort of feeling more now that I did at the beginning of the week, that, uhm, I don't know, it's almost as if time is sliding by now and, and just somehow things will take care of themselves, as if it's beyond my control.  (2-minute silence)
And I also think I'm (clears throat) feeling somewhat differently today when I think about this feeling of pressure because today I — I don't know whether it's the last day I come for a while or, uhm, whether I'm feeling this way in any case — but I don't know, it's almost as if I don't want to analyze this feeling and think about it any more exc— exce—, except the way (sniffle) I do, which I know gets me nowhere.  And, I don't know, I think I have the feeling I've been through this kind of feeling so many times before, with various things that I've sort of worked out my way of handling it.  And it may not be very pleasant but — I don't know, I's kind of as if I think I have a balance that I don't want to upset or something.  (3-minute silence)
Well, it seems like I'm thinking exactly the same way I did yesterday because I now was thinking about (clears throat) different wrapping of presents and, uhm (sniffle) I don't know, in particular, the ones I'm giving MSCZ and the feeling that somehow what I'm giving him isn't enough.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   What do you mean by that?
PATIENT: Well, I, I guess it's a feeling that (sighs) something's wrong about what I'm giving him or missing.  And, uhm, it doesn't have anything to do with how much I'm spending on them but just — I kee— I find I keep thinking, "Well, there must be something else I should give him."  Because I have this feeling that, of, of not being satisfied, anyway.  Or feeling that somehow he won't be happy.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   What do you imagine he most wants from you?
PATIENT: (Pause) I don't know, I, instead of thinking about (sniffle) — well, first I thought that probably what he'd like is, uhm, clothes and specifically a sports jacket because he was talking about, well for a long time he's been wanting to get one.  And first he couldn't find one he liked and then when he did, it was very expensive.  And last night he was paying some bills and just sort of generally feeling sorry for himself.
I mean it is, it must not be nice but anyway feeling that he's, he can't afford still to get something he really fe— feels he wants.  So then I was thinking, "Well, if I could —"  well, I was thinking more of because his birthday comes in January — but if there's some way more of because his birthday comes in January but if there's someway I could give that to him then, he'd like it.  And so then I think of it now as if I had that as a Christmas present it would be something I'd feel better about.
But then I thought, "Well, I'm not really sure that that's so."  And, uhm, I don't know, it almost seems like it has something to do with (clears throat) my attitude toward him lately that what's missing maybe is a loving kind of feeling that, with which I'm giving these presents or — I don't know, I've gotten things that I think he wants.  But I just feel as if everything would be different if I felt differently.  (Pause)
Oh, and then I think — because I was thinking this or you pointed it out yesterday — that from feeling that way about my feelings towards him, that I suppose it could be extended o to our making love and then creating a baby, and that I'd be giving him that.  But I wasn't — I don't know, what I concentrate on is just thinking that somehow what's missing is something in my feelings.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   You know, what kind of strikes me, though, is that, uhm, ah that you'd only say this after I ask about it, as though somehow — I mean it seems evident that eh, you do feel that that's missing.  But, eh, I guess what I'm trying to get at is it doesn't, it's not something you, you bring up as a problem.  I mean, you know, it comes up but sort of by the back door.
PATIENT: Mm.  (Sniffle) (2-minute Silence) All I can think is that uhm, I don't, I don't know what it is.  If I, when I talk about it here — I suppose even when I talk about it here — there's a certain acceptance of it or, uhm, — I don't know.  I mean I'm not happy about it but still (sigh) I'm not giving it the higher priority of other things I'll think about and talk about.
And, uhm, I was just thinking that the only time that I do think of how I feel about MSCZ and, and our relationship as any kind of problem is when he won't act— and when he actively — and, and he doesn't do this all the time — but uhm, lately he's been in a bad mood a lot, which is probably in reaction to it to some extent — but still he hasn't sort of directly approached this as a problem.  And, and it's only when he does, that then I get really concerned enough to think about it as a problem.  And otherwise I just sort of—
I don't, well, I don't know what it is I do but — I'd, I just keep thinking, "Well, there must, I must feel this way because I'm serving some other purpose for myself."  And so it doesn't make it worth my while to look into it and to see about the way I feel unless MSCZ really gets upset.  (Pause)
And even with this feeling about his present, uhm — when I was thinking about it, I, I don't know I just I didn't think of it until here that it had anything to do with my attitude.  (Silence) And, I just have the feeling that — (clears throat) well, I was first wondering "Well, what is it what I want from MSCZ?"  And, uhm, I don't know, it seems as if what led me to question the feelings I had about what I'm giving him came more out of the sense that he can't be happy with our relationship because of my own realization underneath how else I'm feeling: that it is inadequate.  But, uhm, generally, I think I want him to accept me no matter what I do or how I feel and, uhm, — (Pause) I don't know, I, I think of the fact that I've seen sometimes and heard of and just uhm, — I don't know, they're probably stereotypes too — but of, uhm, situations where it the, in a situation like that where the husband is accepting his wife's moods and various feelings and everything that she's thought of as sort of the dominating one, and uh, bossy and so forth.
But when I think of it here, it's not so much a ma—, I mean it can become a marriage relationship — but that it's really, even if the woman is thought of as being dominating, because the husband is sort of sits back and accepts all the different things she does or feels — uhm, that it, that it's really she's being very childish.  And in this case I keep feeling, feeling I'm sort of looking for that — to MSCZ that he give me something that is more what I suppose a father could give to a child.
Because, I think, even within this I accept sometimes — I, I, I don't know, I mean it's almost as if I accept sometimes he'll discipline me and, once in a while, put his foot down and say, "That's enough."  Or I don't know just say, "That's off limits.  You can't be that way."  But that uhm, that in a way, he's guiding me or uhm, — (Silence)
I alm—, I think I'm getting the feeling that however — and in one way I feel unhappy about having this relationship with MSCZ — I really like having it.  Because I guess I feel I'm getting something I never got before.  And, uhm, I don't know, it just seems like I kind of stopped at a certain point.  And, I'm just enjoying sort of being childish with him and — (sighs) (Pause)
Eh, and it just seems like it's only every once in a while that I'll contrast it this feeling with thinking, "Well, I'm really not a child so there's something wrong or missing or I shouldn't enjoy having this kind of relationship."  (3-minute silence)
I'm not sure how I made this transition but, uhm, I find I'm thinking about the meal I'm cooking on Saturday and uhm, also thinking about cleaning the apartment but mainly picking up our bedroom, which is sort of where everything's just put that doesn't go anyplace else or uhm, that I don't know what to do with.  And this has been driving MSCZ crazy.  And, ah but I started thinking of it more in terms of, of FNI bringing — because I'm having the BFMS over, — having FNI put the baby in there and then (clears throat) wanting it picked up for her and not for MSCZ, which I think is what drives him most crazy: that my attitude is much more for guests I'll pick but when it's just us around I'm much more sloppy.  And, uhm, and then I was just thinking about cooking the turkey and the fact I don't have a covered roasting pan and I was just thinking about whether or not I should get one.  (Coughs) Again, all the (clears throat) sort of smaller details of things.  (6-minute Silence)
And, I, I think I've just been thinking about that need to be done.  And I was just reminded of a feeling I had, I think more today than yesterday or the day before, because I'd sort of, I'd already laid out the weekend in my mind.  And so I'd always thought Monday and Tuesday could be used solely on cookies but then by Wednesday I knew I should be — even if I had cookies still to do — be doing other things.  And instead of just sort of settling in and doing things I think I felt very much that I was sort of running from one thing to another.  I didn't literally do it but my mind sort of did and I'd end up not being probably as effective as I could have been otherwise.
And it's sort of the way I was feeling now in thinking about, just I don't know, a lot of various things that will take some amount of time but that aren't really — well, I don't know, I was thinking like the, uhm, last details on the curtains that be nice to have them up before the weekend but there's still some details that have to be done, although essentially the main part is finished.  And, uhm, then I have some presents still to wrap.  And, I don't know, it just, there're just so many little things that ah, — (Pause)
And my thoughts sort of go this way and I think I do it an ex— probably quite a bit too — if, uhm, thinking of one thing and instead of doing it so it would be off my, my mind I might start it or I might do part of it on purpose and then go do something else.  But I don't do something until it's absolutely finished.  (2-minute silence)
I don't know, I just — I'm having the feeling that part of the way, the reason I'm thinking of these things (clears throat) is that I'm feeling sort of, I don't know, since I'm not coming tomorrow, then I'm — well, I mean this is where it's different from yesterday and the day before when I thought of it.  Because there wasn't any feeling of hurrying from here back to it in the same way that I now feel.  (Silence)
And the thing it reminded me of, though it seems — well, I can, I don't know, uhm is particularly when I, I was going to one camp that, uhm, for a number of years I went to alone and then FLA I guess, came just about the last year I went to it.  But I'd really look forward to my parents coming to visit and then the image I get is of when it was coming time for my parents to leave.  But I'm thinking of only mainly being with my father now and that time being very awkward and my being, feeling no matter how much I wanted him to come, feeling in a hurry for him to go.  Because he is going anyway, I guess, so I want it over fast.  (Silence)
And I also think of something which I suppose is part of this too, that uhm, well, mainly the feeling I had, I guess, Monday, when I left thinking I'd said something that must be very offensive to you, and, uhm, I remember thinking then, that it was lucky I was coming back the next day because — I, I imagine eventually I would have stopped feeling this way — but that I would have felt much more anxious if I'd known I couldn't come back the next day and say something about it.  And s— it makes me just wonder if — I suppose part of it is what I've known I've done before: and that's just not wanting to think anything that will involve in any way right before I'm leaving and not coming back for a while.
ANALYST:   Maybe it's even especially over Christmas.  (Pause) Well, our time's up.
