TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: Oh, let's see right where I left off. I started talking about that, something about sex, and you said, you know, we'd have to get into that. I can't remember what this was about.


COUNSELOR: From what?


PATIENT: Yeah, right at the end. Oh, I know. I said that I grouped everything together. It wasn't like it was separated. Yeah, I think that's sort of really - I was thinking about that afterwards. I think that's really it. I never - it was like - right from my early experiences with it, it was something that would arouse something in me that felt good, but it was always bad at the same time. And I think that that's why I could never, ever break away from that feeling. Even when I would become involved with someone where there was like closeness and a strong likeness, I could never - when it would come to that, then it would always disturb me.


COUNSELOR: You mean you never could break the link and  - 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: - you had always experienced it bad even if it was good.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. I think primarily because I - well, when I look back on it now and I think about the early sexual experiences, I had developed at a very early age, like 8 or 9, and my mother really didn't know how to cope with it. And so instead of like handling it, I don't - I'm not an authority, I don't know how she should have handled it, but jokes were made about it, like "Oh, look at Julie," you know, and things like that. [2:22]


COUNSELOR: How did that make you feel?


PATIENT: Well, very insecure and very - no self-confidence at all.


COUNSELOR: Like there was something wrong with your body?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And especially because you know, I didn't go to a public school, and so I wasn't in a wide range of people. It was very hard for me to try to hide this from my classmates.


COUNSELOR: And apparently it was something you felt like hiding from the kids. The way everyone was teasing you it was like there was something wrong.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And then I remember like when I started menstruating, I think I was like 9, and it was really a traumatic experience because I knew about it, but I expected it like when I was 14 or 15, and again, my mother backed away. She tried to help me and make me understand what was going on, but there was never any communication there to begin with. I think my parents felt that as long as I knew the difference between a man and a woman that that was all I needed to know about sex.


COUNSELOR: So you didn't get a chance to share your feelings about how you felt about their teasing you and how you felt about being different? [3:48]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And of course, there was no one else I could talk to about it, because I didn't want anybody to know about it, period. It was just enough that they knew about it. And then, of course, as I grew older I was really big-breasted, and I was fat anyway, so that was really like I became the brunt of a lot of jokes in school, you know, like from the 7th and 8th grade boys. And I remember experiencing some really bad times, because it was like I knew that I had something that they were interested in, and it certainly wasn't my looks. So I thought that if this was the way that I was going to have to attract attention, that this is what I would have to do. And finally  - 


COUNSELOR: Are these sexy, sort of, you mean?


PATIENT: Well, yeah, like going along with their jokes, being part of the game. And I wasn't enjoying it, but it was like the only way I could protect myself. Because I figured if they liked me for that, then they wouldn't make fun of me. 


And it just like went on from there until I was like about 14, and then I started to lose weight, and some of that insecurity went away and then I became like really - I had been living with these guilt feelings about these different things that I had done or said in the previous two or three years, so I went to just the opposite extreme.


COUNSELOR: What kind of things do you mean?


PATIENT: Well, like, I don't know how I can explain it. But just like now I think about it. Like when I go to the show; and you know how the kids would all meet at a show or something, and somebody would put their arm around you or touch you or something, and it would really disturb me, because I knew that it was wrong or had to be wrong, but it was something that I just made no attempt to stop because I just couldn't. I was afraid that I would just turn everybody off on me then. [6:20]


COUNSELOR: That's a big one you had a relating to with the kids. So you were kind of sitting there in terror, and at the same time it was like you were stuck there.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And then when I started to lose the weight and people - I started dating and everything, and it was because people were actually interested in me and not in anything else, then I would automatically turn off, because I felt that I was on my way to becoming like a tramp or something. So I figured the only way that I could combat that was to just go to the opposite way. And it was very hard for me, because I think at that point in my life I really and truly enjoyed sexual activity more than I even do today.


COUNSELOR: So right about then you made some kind of decision that what you were doing was really sinful or wrong or horrible, and that you just had to shove all that away, turn it off.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And then, of course, like if I ever would date someone that I would go steady with or something, then I would sort of lax up a little bit, but then I rationalized that it was different. And even though I  - 


COUNSELOR: Is that sort of where the split came, the sex-love split, you mean? Like this is different now, I'm having a relationship with this person, so sex is okay? Is that the way it was? [7:58]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. But I still - it wasn't like - I still had the guilt feeling, I never got rid of those, no matter what I did or with whom, it was always still there somewhere, and the fear of being found out or that it would progressively get worse. And I think that probably the only fairly normal relationship I had was when I was like about 16. And although it never went into intercourse or anything, it was still just a natural involvement. 


But it seemed then that after that period of time, which was about two years, which I started to get loose again. You know, it was, like, something had broke the ice. And then after that I would become involved in sexual activity, and so then again it proved to me it's like I had no control over myself. Once I would let go, then I would just let go, period. And I would become so ridden with this guilt that I would like just quit dating for like six months, because I figured that if I didn't go out with anyone, I couldn't do anything wrong.


COUNSELOR: So you had really strong sexual feelings from an early age and no way of coping with it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: And no one to help you and no way of thinking about them that would make them feel right to you or that you were going to accept them.


PATIENT: I think that's why, even now, when I will sit and watch a movie or something, I become so uncomfortable, because I can't share things like that with anybody. I can't really have a sexual discussion with anyone unless it's completely unrelated to me. [10:08]


COUNSELOR: It's like inside you, you really want to talk about that, but yet, if it comes out in public you're really exposed, like you're naked and they can see.


PATIENT: See, it's really funny, because I always had these really, really bad problems about sex, and a couple of times I tried to talk to my mother about them, and she'd just pooh-pooh it. She'd like say, well, that's - I don't know what she said, but it was just something that she just couldn't cope with herself so she couldn't very well help me. And I never, ever really ever met anyone, in all that period of time that I ever thought that I could talk to that I was really close enough to that I could get rid of some of these feelings.


COUNSELOR: So you're really stuck with having them inside.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like they're very, very strong, very real for you, and yet, no one to share them with.


PATIENT: Well, it's like I think that that's why I have become, to a point, frigid with Charlie. Because it's like I - I don't know how to explain it, but it's... Not only can I not talk to him about it, but also there's like just a complete split there with us. There never was an understanding between us about it. And now that I'm like in a position where I'm supposed to be warm and responsive, I can't be. [12:11] 


And I find myself going through these like changes. Like for two or three months I'm really just content to sit around and really enjoy life and not do anything or, like, just sit at home and play cards with friends or that, and then I get bored with that. And then that's when I start going into like these fantasies and, like, wanting to be out at, like, parties and things. And that sort of reminded me of the game that I played before, like when I would just quit dating, thinking that this would solve all my problems. 


COUNSELOR: So it's a back and forth extremes kind of thing. Either you're not having anything to do with that dirty stuff, or you're really into it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And see, I'm sort of like really not having anything to do with it right now, and that's why I'm so relaxed. I mean really, like the last one or two weeks, I think it's really been obvious to even Charlie that I've just been very content and have shown interest in things that sometimes I can't even be bothered with, and I'm more patient with him and with people, but it doesn't last.


COUNSELOR: You know, like sometimes you can take it and close it off in a little box, but pretty soon it pops out. [13:56]


PATIENT: It's not consistent and it really bothers me. I think that's what frightens me more than anything. If I felt that I could really make an all-out effort to maintain this, I would feel much more secure, but I just know that it's not going to be that way. 


COUNSELOR: I think that's telling you something too. I mean somehow when things come back like that, it's because they want to be dealt with in some way.


PATIENT: Well, I suppose I definitely feel that like I have to come to some kind of - I mean I can't go on this way, because I know that it's not a solution, and it's certainly not any help towards my present relationship. I can't continue to go on in this lethargic state, because as long as I'm this way I just really don't care if anybody bothers me.


COUNSELOR: It would be nice if you could keep the security of that, but yet, it doesn't work.


PATIENT: No, it doesn't. And unfortunately, it's reached a point where I think it's something that I can either push away or I think about constantly, and I probably think about it more than I push it away. And it's creating so many other problems for me that are so unrelated to that, and I know that that's the way it was from before. I would become totally preoccupied with this nonsense and I would just - it hurt me a lot in school, because I was constantly having some kind of problem, and it's hurting me now. [16:07] 


I don't know. It's like I remember one time - I think I told you that - about the time that fellow like - well, he didn't really force himself to like molest me, but it was like in the schoolroom upstairs.


COUNSELOR: You didn't tell me about that.


PATIENT: Well, it was like he was 13, and I was 10 or 11 or something like that. And it was really - it was just a horrible experience; it was like a nightmare. And I was so frightened that I really didn't make any effort to get away or do anything, but I really don't know why I did that, whether it was fear or because I really wanted to stay.


COUNSELOR: The feeling you do have is that you were sort of overwhelmed and maybe you couldn't move.


PATIENT: Well, I think it was that, and I think it was curiosity, because it was probably the first actual personal experience that I had, but of course, it was all wrong and bad in every sense of the word. And it was like I was so positive that I was going to be found out; that's all I was afraid of. I wasn't upset about what I had done, it was being found out, and that's really, I think, what bothers me, even to now. It's never what I've done, but always that the fear of somebody finding out something about me that isn't good. [18:08]


COUNSELOR: It just hangs over you. Yeah, like inside you you're really okay with it and that's fine with you. It's other people that really mess it up.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And I think too that, like, if I could have - I don't know. Maybe if I could have told someone about it at the time, it would have been all right. It's like it's so important for me to say things to people, even if it's not the whole truth. It's like if I tell somebody, then it makes it all right.


COUNSELOR: You know, in a way there's this little person inside of you that's just sort of sitting there, running your life, and then there's the outside of you that's being afraid of other people, and the inside one is really fine, it knows what it's doing, and it likes what it's doing and that's fine.


PATIENT: I don't know if that's good or bad. Yeah, I think that's very true in a way, because sometimes I really do feel like two separate people, because I really get these strong urges to do something, and then I'll never follow through with it. And I think that it's just this constant fear of something at the time, whatever it is. And it's like I never really had a lot of confidence in myself as a person from the very beginning, and there were times when it was better than others. It's probably at its best right now, and I think a lot of that is happened because of the marriage. I'm in an accepted thing now, and so I can do what I want to do; I feel protected. But it's funny. I'm still so wrapped up with things that bothered me like when I was 14 or 15 years old. [20:39]


COUNSELOR: Like that doesn't help. Being in an accepted role doesn't help those things.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Like I'm still so super conscious of things like my weight and things like that, and I keep thinking like I shouldn't be worried about those things now, they're not important, but it's like I never learned to cope with it. It was always something even my own family made fun of and it just continued on. And I think that's why, when Charlie used to bug me about it, that I started getting these really, really hostile feelings towards him. Because I kept thinking isn't there ever going to be an end to it. I kept asking myself what difference does it make, or saying to myself, but it always seemed like it did make a difference. 


And other things like, I don't know, just everything. I think that's why it's like so necessary for me to just be someone on guard all the time. Like Charlie will say, "Well, why can't you be natural? Why can't you just go out and not take two hours to get ready?" But I can't, because I can't break down that barrier. I wish I could, it really bugs me that I can't, but I can't explain that to him. I can't explain it to anyone. [22:25] 


COUNSELOR: You know, it's really frustrating to you and you'd like to get rid of that. 


PATIENT: Um-hmm, I would. And I mean like I've tried to do everything possible to promote it. Like I've just really made an all-out effort, but it's still not the same. It's like there's just something that's always there that's saying that everything has to be just so when you walk out of the house and then everything will be okay. 


COUNSELOR: See, it's almost superstitious in a way. Like if you carry your red handkerchief, then people won't laugh at you, or something like that.


PATIENT: I suppose that's why I am - about the things around the house, I'm so compulsive, because when we got married I was just so involved in having everything just the way I wanted it. Well, when I realized that I couldn't have it because of our finances, and then I became a compulsive cleaner. Because I figured if everything was always the way exactly it should be and everything was clean, then no one would notice what we had or didn't have. [24:00] 


COUNSELOR: It's like the whole thing is wanting to present yourself in a certain way, almost so that people won't get past that, or they'll see that and accept it right away and then everything will be fine. But in a way, then, that goes away from the question of whether or not you ever care about what you are or what you have. It's like always waiting for them to say something and even setting it up so that they see you in a certain way.


PATIENT: I think so, because it's like I can't really ever get close to people. There are very few people that I feel really close to. And I think it's because I'm just - I can't be natural around people in general, and so I don't leave any openings for anyone to get in. And it's funny, because people have an uncanny way of just telling me everything, just really private, private things, and it always amazes Charlie. He said, "How do people talk to you that way?" And I said, "Probably because I don't say anything back," and I can't, and I really wonder if that's good or bad. I don't know if I'd ever want to be that open. But it bothers me that I can't even show compassion to them for anything. I guess I am just like a brick wall. They just - like they're talking to this, you know; that's why they can do it.


COUNSELOR: The stuff just bounces off.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. 


COUNSELOR: What would it be like if you did let them in? What would happen? [25:53]


PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know if I would ever - I don't know if I could ever be that way. I don't think I could, because I would be too afraid. I don't trust people, to begin with. I'm very funny about talk. I really have a hang-up about gossip and everything. And I go out of my way not to ever repeat anything that's ever said to me in confidence, but I don't have that same faith in people, in general. And so I think - I know I could never open up to people because of that.


COUNSELOR: And then everybody would know about it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. That's what I would be afraid of.


COUNSELOR: So it's like, it's, and again, a fear of scandal or something, like it will get out what you are.


PATIENT: And like it's funny, because even some of the things that I know about our friends, I keep thinking, well, gee, you know, no, they've done this or they've done that. But it's not any type of appeasement to me. I can't be satisfied with that. Maybe if I could join in with them, you know, it would be different. Maybe I would find it more satisfying.


COUNSELOR: You mean if you'd share something with them?


PATIENT: If I could share something with them.


COUNSELOR: And then it's better than being gossip. It would be more like my experience is like yours and let's talk about it?


PATIENT: I have found that that has held true in our marriage. There was a long period of time, from the beginning until maybe about eight or nine months ago, that I would never discuss anything with anybody about what went on in our marriage, arguments or this bad habit or that, or anything that was any way closely related. And I have found now that since I have related experiences to a couple of my close friends, that they seem funny after you talk about them, they're not that serious. [28:24]


COUNSELOR: So that's good, you mean?


PATIENT: In a way I think it is, because it was like I was so bound and determined to let everyone think that everything was just so perfect with the two of us that I wouldn't dare tell anyone about anything that happened that was bad. 


COUNSELOR: I think that happens all the time. I know people think their problems are their own problems, or nobody else in the world has them, or that they have to keep them to themselves. And when they start sharing they find out that everybody else has the same ones.


PATIENT: Well, I realize that, and there are things that I can talk about today that are easier than they were, say, five or six years ago even. But as far as sex was concerned, I just knew that I could never relax enough that I could ever get involved in that type of conversation with anyone.


COUNSELOR: That's like the epitome of it or something, like the prime example. Like that's the place where you most feel like things would be scandalous and you'd be exposed.


PATIENT: Oh yeah, because everything else is really - I mean it's important, but it's not that - it doesn't really affect me that personally.


COUNSELOR: You know, it sounds like in some way that spills over to the other things, like there's a way in which you want to hide inside yourself so no one sees. [29:56]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Well, I feel too, like with the sex thing, I don't know, even like as a young girl, how your friends would sit around and laugh and talk about different things, and I could never do that. I never had a carefree attitude about it the way they did. They could joke about something or they could relate an experience, and I just never could. I never could open up that way, even with very, very close high school friends.


COUNSELOR: I know. I have memories like that too, where the whole subject is sex or periods or anything like that. It was just terribly, terribly hard and anxious and I just couldn't tell anybody, and I really know how you feel, this methsantos (ph) of really being vulnerable, because now someone's going to know all of your secrets. Like that's a really hard feeling and it's very hard to shake.


PATIENT: Well, and it's like I think that was one reason why, when I had the opportunity, that I told my mother that I had been sleeping with Charlie. I think it was sort of like to try to shock her into some kind of an understanding of what I had been going through, but it was too late. It was something that maybe if it had happened eight years before, I don't know. 


But even now I can't even talk with her about it, and in, oh, a detached sort of way, but there's really no closeness there on that subject at all. And I can see really that that's where the root of the problem lies, because it's like she should have been my first confidante. And if I would have had her, then I could have gone to other people, I think, but it just never worked that way. [32:26]


I think that to be raised [for the atalas] (ph) with the fear that, you know, you do it and have sex because you [don't need to hear] (ph) you'll get pregnant, you know, and a bad reputation, and all this sort of thing, and never like a positive view of it; it was always negative. 


And I think even now that that's why I'm so afraid to get pregnant. I just - I'm really - the thought of being pregnant just scares the hell out of me. And I don't think that it has anything to do with the baby itself, but it's like I just have that pounded into my head so much that I really don't know if I want to be pregnant now. It's just - I don't know, it's so funny, but the thoughts that I have about pregnancy are really weird. Like I think if I walk around and pregnant, then everyone's going to know that I did something, and really that bugs me. 


Like if I could talk to my mother about my marriage and everything, but never the sexual side of it, you know... Like I've been around other family groupings where there's been jokes made and things like that, but that's never so in our little thing. And so it's sort of like, when you're pregnant, it's sort of like you're wearing a sign on you, and that really bugs me. [34:22]


COUNSELOR: You really don't want anybody to know that you have intercourse.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: What would they say if they knew?


PATIENT: Well, probably nothing.


COUNSELOR: No, I mean what is your fantasy about these things? What is the awful things that  - 


PATIENT: Oh, the teasing and everything. See, I can't take that. I can't cope with it. 


COUNSELOR: What would it be? That  - 


PATIENT: It would be just teasing, you know, like - you know, silly like they say, "Oh, what did you do last month," or something like that. 


COUNSELOR: Like accusing you of something dirty or rotten.


PATIENT: Yeah, and see, I can't handle it. I immediately start to back away. I can feel it. Even now, just being bugged about not being pregnant is enough.


COUNSELOR: Because that right away, when they just tease you in that sort of accusing way, it plugs into your feeling that you do do it wrong, see.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And I think that that is one reason why I am so fearful of being pregnant. I really just don't - I can't relate to a pregnancy in any way. I was never taught or I never grew up with the idea that being pregnant and having a child was a beautiful thing. It was always like, "That comes after you're married," that sort of thing, which isn't that bad, but it's sort of like it's so terrible before and it has to come afterwards. [36:08]


COUNSELOR: It's not a natural  - 


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: - beautiful thing that develops out of a relationship. It's something that operates according to rules.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: It's very harsh somehow.


PATIENT: And that's why I really have these negative attitudes towards pregnancy and about - I think that, in a way, even the sexual relationship between Charlie and I is involved in all of this in the way that I still - somewhere deep down inside is still that guilt feeling that I'm doing something wrong. And even though it couldn't possibly be more right, I have just become so turned off with the whole thing that I really have become frigid. I never realized it until Saturday, you know, until Charlie said like, "You're always pushing me away," not meaning just like - but for anything, like just when he wants to be endearing, and I do. It's - I don't know. If I even feel like he's starting to break into my little wall, and I resent that. It's like I just don't want anybody in there with me.


COUNSELOR: It's like you're saying leave me alone, it's so bad. [37:56]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And so then I just like - when he does that, it's just like I can't - I feel like I'm all closed in and I don't want him to touch me, and I can understand how that has really turned him off. I wasn't always that way from, well; at the beginning because it was something new and different, but it didn't really take very long. And then when I did start to become that way, it just steadily got worse.


COUNSELOR: Can you be into that part of you that feels like it wants to keep people away and see what it says?


PATIENT: I don't know.


COUNSELOR: I mean when you're inside, when you're behind your wall and Charlie's poking into it, what do you want to say to him?


PATIENT: Sometimes nothing. Sometimes I just, like, want to just scream. It's like it's so strong. It just feels like it would come out without even an effort.


COUNSELOR: So it's a really powerful feeling, whatever it is.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: And it's something like get away from me.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And I usually become very short-tempered and like I just - I could just feel myself getting tighter and tighter inside, and then when he backs away - sometimes I realize what I've done and I feel really bad about it, but when I don't, then of course that's when it's done its damage, because I don't do anything to...


COUNSELOR: Is it like anger? [40:05]


PATIENT: No. It's sort of like - the word I want to use is like - it's not anger, it's like somebody touching you that makes you really feel creepy. You know, I told you about that reaction towards my father that time. It's the same feeling.


COUNSELOR: So it's like saying you're disgusting, don't touch me?


PATIENT: Um-hmm, which I can't even begin to understand.


COUNSELOR: Like that seems ridiculous that you  - 


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean like I have been repulsed by other men that I've gone out with, but it was like they were repulsive right from the beginning so I never became concerned about that, but this is like something that I just - sometimes I reach a point where it just bugs me. I can't - the thought of any type of contact just turns me off.


COUNSELOR: And in a way it feels to me like you dash that too, you don't want to feel that. I mean, why should you feel that? I mean that Charlie is disgusting, that's ridiculous, he's your husband. So you kind of want to push the feeling away, but yet, it's very, very strong. [41:51]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And I suppose it would bother me if it were just him, but it's not only just him, it's a lot of people. I'll back away like from my mother when she's going to kiss me good-bye. Other times it won't even bother me. The day like with my father, it just was terrible, and he was doing nothing but just hanging onto my arm.


COUNSELOR: What more is that? I mean can you go back to the feelings that you had there, of his being disgusting and see if any more words come out of it? Like sort of get back with that feeling that's so strong about how disgusting it is?


PATIENT: I don't know, because I don't understand it. It's just like there was really  - 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, well, you don't have to understand it, just look at it.


PATIENT: It's just that I get this like really cold chill, and I can't really think of anything else except that if he doesn't leave me alone I'm going to scream. I can't stand it.


COUNSELOR: So it's, yeah, I can't stand it, I'm so desperate, just get out of here.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: Frantic in a way, panicked. 


PATIENT: I just don't - it's like it just turns me off so bad that I can't - I don't know. It's just like I want to take that arm and throw it and say  - 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, pull it off.


PATIENT: Yeah. And I can't understand that, why I feel that way. Because, you know, sometimes after something like that happens, and like later or the next day or something, and I'll think, you know, why did I feel that way? That was really stupid. But then I just forget about it.


COUNSELOR: I think that it's like you want to wish that away or something like that. You really wish you didn't feel that, but in a way the way to get to the root of it or to get to the core of it is stay with it and look at it for what it is. [44:02]


PATIENT: Well, I can't - I really don't know what it is. I don't know if it's that I just have such a strong inability to be really close with someone on a consistent basis, because so much - 


COUNSELOR: I'm not exactly saying why, I'm saying - I'm sort of doing a teaching thing or something. I don't know what I'm into. It's about staying with a feeling. Like the way to get to the root of things, really, is to stay with that feeling and the way you were doing, seeing what new words come out of it. Now already we got to where a person was just disgusting, and then it was more like it was panic. And if you could stick with it and see more what it is, like that might be able to tell you something. Right now it feels like you sort of get to it and you kind of bounce off, and you get to it and you bounce off. You know?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. I don't know. It's like being that close with anyone, a male or a female, I just - I can't - I panic. I get very - it's like I just don't want anybody to break - I don't know. It's like I can't relate back. It's like when  - 


COUNSELOR: It's like you're frozen there. [45:56]


PATIENT: Right. When someone is, like, trying to be endearing to me, I don't want him or her to be. I want them to leave me alone. I don't want that kind of response with someone.


COUNSELOR: Sounds, in a way, like a hurt child off somewhere saying no, leave me alone.


PATIENT: This happened many times with my best friend, I mean, who at the time I was very, very close to, and she was a very endearing type of person. And I could never respond to her the way that she responded to me, and I still can't.


COUNSELOR: Can you stick with that feeling of I can't? What is that?


PATIENT: I can't be that way with people. I can't open up and be close and express myself either in words or actions about my feelings. It's like pure torture. I can't do it. I can't say anything to anyone that is really sincerely meant. I can do it if I push long enough and force it out, but it's never spontaneous.


COUNSELOR: So it really is like you have to wrench it out of you and pull on it so hard to get it out that it will flow out. [47:46]


PATIENT: Not in any way. The only time that I have a steady balance in a relationship is when everything is very matter of fact, you know, sort of like the way our marriage is now, a matter of fact, and that's why everything is fine. I have a very strong fear of losing someone that's close to me, and so - well, in general, I have a very strong fear of death. Not where I'm concerned, but where other people are concerned.


COUNSELOR: But on the losing thing is that - I mean, how does that relate to... Seems like that goes with it some way, your saying "Don't touch me." In a way, you're closing yourself off before that can happen, saying no, don't touch me, I'm going to stay here all by myself and you won't be able to affect me at all. I won't let you be good to me and then you can't go away from me either, because I won't even let you in, period.


PATIENT: See, I think that - I know a lot of it has to do with my childhood, because it really wasn't that happy, you know. It was something that - I don't even know if I could begin to explain, but it was sort of like - it was just the three of us, but it wasn't. It was them and me all the time. We did things as a family all the time, but it wasn't - there was never any communication, and it was a constantly being scolded for this or that or - [50:16]


COUNSELOR: So you learned to build a wall.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. I think too that this is why I think I'm - the way that I'm with Charlie is sort of like the way that I am with my parents, simply because he has - so many things that he has done, where I'm concerned, are so much of a reminder of what I did go through earlier with the scolding and the teasing and things like that. And maybe at the time he's doing it I don't show any feelings, but then later it will come out.


COUNSELOR: It's like you're so easily hurt you just dash for the nearest corner the second anybody criticizes you, and you've really got that down. I mean you've used it all your life and it worked.


PATIENT: See, even like when I talk about this friend and I think about it now and really wonder how good of friends we were, because in so many ways I never, ever could relate to her. And it was sort of like we just more or less used each other for our own benefits. And that, I don't know, maybe it was because of that that I felt like I couldn't even have a close relationship with a friend. [52:24]


COUNSELOR: Because she was using you, or because you were both doing it?


PATIENT: Well, no, but it was just like she was popular and attractive, and so I suppose that I used her in a way that I got, like, inroads into places that I never would have gone into without her. And I think, where I was concerned, it was just someone that she could talk to. And she knew that I really would never say anything. It was like I was really - in that way I was as close to her as anybody could be. But I think really in many ways that was where it ended. And that really bothers me a lot now, because I think about it, and I think that that was like maybe five or six years of the best part of my life that I just literally threw down the drain because of this dependence on her. [53:46] 


I can't say that like my parents are responsible for everything that happened, but, I don't know, there's like really very - I have very strong feelings about them that I can't seem to get rid of.


COUNSELOR: You know, in a way, it sounds to me like, very young, you learned how to be strong and hard and learned how to close people out, and how to do that very effectively, and yet, that left you sort of where your feelings are and where you live, that left you sort of dragging 20 feet behind saying, help, you know, where is everybody?


PATIENT: Well, I don't really ever remember being close, really close, to anybody. I can't remember any one person that I ever really felt totally close to. Charlie probably has come the closest to that. And I suppose in many ways that's why so many things that have happened between us throw me. Because it's like one of - the first person that I could ever really almost be myself around, and anything that happens between us upsets me so terribly, because it's just like that constant fear of having that destroyed. [55:53]


COUNSELOR: The first person you can begin to desire (ph).


PATIENT: And I don't think that - like the feelings about my parents are like so mixed up and it really bothers me, because I suppose that I am remorseful now that I couldn't have had a happier childhood. And it's sort of like they won't leave me alone now. They want to constantly be doing something together. It's sort of like to make up things. I don't know. But I don't want it now, but that really bothers me that I don't want it. That makes me feel very guilty.


COUNSELOR: Well, they're your parents, you should want that, but yet, you feel like they've never given anything to you.


PATIENT: Yeah, really. Like I wish, in a way, I could tell them, it seems like it would help, but it would be useless because they would never understand. Of course, they're like all parents; they feel that they did everything for you humanly possible at the time.


COUNSELOR: In a way, that's your whole experience of them that they don't care and they'll never understand.


PATIENT: No, they don't understand because it's like anything that has occurred - it's just like it's never been any communication and there's probably even less now, because we've really gone in two different directions now, and that really disturbs me. I guess that a parent-child relationship is very important to me and I'm very envious about anyone that I see in a good situation. [58:10]


COUNSELOR: Um-hmm, you really missed something. Yeah, I know what that feels like too. It's like I have two feelings about that. One is like they never cared, and another one is like what right did they have to do that? They should have cared.


PATIENT: But I mean like when you say they didn't care like, because... See, I don't really feel it as it being that they didn't care.


COUNSELOR: Not really they didn't. I mean they did all this that they were supposed to do, and they took care of you, but somehow they didn't reach you in some way that you really needed to be reached, and that's what generates all the feelings of loneliness and rage and anger and hate and love and everything else. They should have been your parents but they weren't.


PATIENT: No, they weren't like anything, really. In some ways I can understand why that they were the way they were, but I guess that I'll always have very strong feelings about some of the things that they did wrong and I can't - I just can't be that close with them now. I try, simply, I guess, because of the fear something's going to happen and I'm going to regret not having been close.


COUNSELOR: But in a way, you'd like to feel like you don't have to. [59:59]


PATIENT: Well, I just - yeah. I like am so sick and tired of being so preoccupied with this sort of thing, you know, like I have to reach the bond because somebody's going to die. That's really - like I get so worked up over these things that I actually make myself sick over it and  - 


COUNSELOR: It gets all mixed up somehow and like that's really tangled, like. You feel like you really don't want to but you have to, and then that flips over somehow and you feel like they're going to die if you don't do anything, and then it gets worse and worse tangled. But the simplest part of it is that you really don't care for them and never have but you feel like you should. 


PATIENT: Well, I think there was one point where I was probably the most involved with them, and it was like in 17, 18, 19-year-old stage. And I guess that they just thought that it was going to continuously go on that way; that they were never going to have to break loose. And when I finally tried to break loose from them, it was a catastrophe, because that was when I realized that they never had grown with me. They had always just considered me a child, and that even at the age of 22 they thought that they could still talk to me and treat me like a child. 


COUNSELOR: Um-hmm (inaudible at 61:51).


PATIENT: And even right now. And it's not so much that I resent them, it's just that I really feel sorry for them. Because I really can appreciate now how many things that we could share or do if we didn't have this constant friction and tension between us. And I think that's what really bothers me so much now more than anything.


COUNSELOR: Like things could have gone right.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: And they didn't, and that's really sad.


PATIENT: And I think that's why I get so preoccupied with this death thing, because maybe I'm still hoping that something will go right.


COUNSELOR: Maybe before they die they'll care about you.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. But I can't - it's like - just even that like they know I'm coming up here. And my mother thinks that something's really wrong with me and my father thinks it's stupid, and like they don't even try to understand. Without my going into detail, with a couple words of explanation it should be clear. I don't know. It's like I can't relate to them and I can't relate to many people and I suppose that's why, and I just like...


COUNSELOR: Well, we have... I'm trying to do it. A back strain.


PATIENT: Uh-oh.


COUNSELOR: I'm sure you can sympathize with that.


PATIENT: Umm.


COUNSELOR: I'm trying to move in exactly the right way so that I don't do the wrong thing. [64:06]


August 2nd. So I'm going to be back the first week in August. Do you want to come on Wednesday at that same time? Or you can change times if you want.


PATIENT: Where will I be? Will it still be here?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but there's not going to be a reception desk down there any more so you'll just have to come up and knock on my door or something.


PATIENT: Um-hmm, all right. Well, I guess that that is kind of late really, especially through the summer. Maybe I should start coming in at noon (ph).


COUNSELOR: Okay. You want to come on a Wednesday?


PATIENT: Yeah, Wednesday's fine.


COUNSELOR: Okay. (Inaudible at 65:29)


PATIENT: It doesn't make any difference, really, you know.


COUNSELOR: Were you having trouble with the traffic?


PATIENT: If it's really early, I probably would. Like what time are you thinking?


Like 11:30.


COUNSELOR: Is that okay?


PATIENT: Yeah, that's fine.


COUNSELOR: Okay. [66:00] 


Do I keep this?


PATIENT: What?


COUNSELOR: I just saw it. I just removed the... Did I explain the structure of this to you, about how you are now switching to the institute, to the counseling center institute or something? So everything's the same, it's the same people and all, except it's going to be a private place and you'll get bills with the new place and stuff like that.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: So if for some reason I don't keep my office locked, you can walk in the Central Park (ph) (inaudible 66:47) but I'll let you know about that. But any rate, that's what you're doing. I mean you're no longer a place that's affiliated with (inaudible at 66:56) New York. (Inaudible at 67:03)


PATIENT: But do I - am I still under the research foundation?


COUNSELOR: Right. Everything is being transferred to the new place.


PATIENT: Oh, all right. But I'll still come here then.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: Okay. Why did they do that?


COUNSELOR: They just had a lot of political reasons, and this year is (inaudible at 67:26) research and not (inaudible at 67:28) research going out of the center and the dean of the University (ph) has had some personal grudge against the center, you know, a lot of crazy rumors floating around about it that are absolutely not true, and psychology department is rated 13th in the country and they're very upset about that. 


END TRANSCRIPT
