Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So I know clearly you've been sick, but how else have you been doing?
CLIENT: Been doing okay. I've been told being sick is like done a number on me and it was like pretty much all week. I was out of commission and even yesterday I was like okay I'm going to go to rehearsal, and then I was sitting up and I was like even sitting up is problematic let alone standing will make me dizzy never mind, (laughing) and then I e-mailed them and I was like never mind I'm not coming to rehearsal.
THERAPIST: I imagine singing would be hard.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I probably would end up coughing like - I experimented and like I was able to hit notes and stuff but it wasn't like you know (cough). What was that coughing sound just coughing right now? [00:00:53]
CLIENT: But yeah is was just like not going to happen and I was like okay, (pause) but (pause) yeah like this entire time Sydney has been like taking care of me.
THERAPIST: Well, that's sweet.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then he was kind of sick too but he's never been as sick as I've been because I was like you should go to the doctor and he was all like (pause) [he wishes] (ph). He has a very messed up family and that like both of his parents are doctors. His mom is like a psychiatrist who works in like a prison, so but she like has these very strong opinions about like people not going to the doctor unless they're like deathly ill and I was like you know well I went to the doctor and they decided that I might have a little bit of pneumonia and gave me antibiotics, and like because he's still on his parents insurance so they would see like he'd gone to the doctor and they'd ask him about it and possibly harass him and stuff. So, he doesn't need to be going so I was like well if it gets to your lungs you're going to the doctor so he agreed to that and it never got to his lungs. But yeah his family is very, very special. [00:02:17]
THERAPIST: Is he close to his special family?
CLIENT: Not really. Like he talks to them maybe like on the phone like if even once a week, once every other week. He hasn't talked to his family for a while because he hasn't wanted to deal with them. Like I guess his dad is a lot more reasonable than his mom is and his mom is probably somewhere on the [autism spectrum] (ph) but we don't actually know this.
THERAPIST: His family? I'm guessing because you haven't met them yet.
CLIENT: I have not met them. They are in Kentucky. So they're far, far away. So that's the other thing but yeah I guess his dad had called him and he had not felt like dealing, especially also because he lost his job and he didn't want to deal with his parents with that although he is financially independent. Due to money that they had like saved up with his grandparents and stuff too but you know he's not dependent on them. That money is his now and he's fine though he is still on his parents insurance and it's not like it's costing them anymore if he goes to the doctor but they still see it and have feelings.
THERAPIST: Feelings of using, using a person.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean his mom didn't even believe him when he was like said that he was depressed and so (pause) he was depressed.
THERAPIST: That's too bad. [00:03:50]
CLIENT: Yeah, so I guess I am fortunate. At least I know my parents are reasonable and you know they're much more in the opposite direction like go to the doctor Georgia, (pause) whether I feel up to going to the doctor or not.
THERAPIST: It certainly does give you a different perspective on your own parents now.
CLIENT: Yeah it does. They're a lot more reasonable than his are.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Has being sick and not being able to do kind of your typical routine impacted your mood?
CLIENT: I'm not sure. A little because there's sort of like this nibbling (ph) in the back of like you know I've gone now like two weeks without doing any sort of like writing or cover letters and stuff, and I'm just like you know on the one hand feeling guilty about that on the hand I'm sick and cover letters I would be writing right now would be pretty (pause) bad (pause) I think. Maybe not, but like I haven't really felt up to doing anything and now it's sort of like all these things and also you know I'm going to Israel.
THERAPIST: You're . . .
CLIENT: I am going to Israel with my family. [00:04:57]
THERAPIST: Oh, I did not know that.
CLIENT: Okay, well can I tell you it's about my family in March. I should, you should (inaudible) out on the calendar but (pause) so (pause) and then also I'm moving from one side of the house to the other because Joan is leaving and going off to Seoul and so her room is open. Her room is bigger than mine. I mean all the rooms are bigger than mine and hers is on the same side of the house as Aaron, which is the same side of the house as and so we figured that like anyone moving in would be like you know - even though my room is like way smaller than all the other rooms like it would still be advantageous to be on the other side of the house if you were someone new coming into this weird situation of like a bunch of crazy Jews and a baby. [00:05:56]
THERAPIST: Is Joshua the baby?
CLIENT: Joshua's the baby. Yes, so you know and it's like I think I will be fine in terms of the crying and stuff especially because once I'm asleep, I'm asleep. So, that's not going to be an issue.
THERAPIST: Has the baby arrived?
CLIENT: Oh, the baby arrived in December.
THERAPIST: Wow, how did I miss that?
CLIENT: Because I guess I haven't mentioned the baby much.
THERAPIST: No, I remember when it was coming. (Chuckle)
CLIENT: Yeah. The baby's doing fine. I've only held the baby twice this entire time and right now I'm sick so I wasn't going to be holding him anyways but like I'm just like okay it's a baby. I don't have to take care of it. It actually didn't really change my life much but yeah Joshua is the baby. Yeah so we figured that for now that side of the room would be better than - they'd rather be in my tiny room then Joan's bigger room on the same side as the baby (pause). But she's moving out at the beginning of March and then I have about a week in there before I go to Israel and also yes since you know my room has a really cool mural, Joan's room has pink walls which are fine but it's not a really cool mural so, I wanted to paint some things on it. I'm not going to paint the entire walls like I did with my room but like I'll probably just paint some things onto the walls. But I guess I can do that like after I've moved in especially because it's not like a full wall painting but still like trying to get the timing down on all that is like a little bit scary so I guess it's good I don't have a job. [00:07:41]
THERAPIST: It certainly gives you much more flexibility.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about moving from one side to the other?
CLIENT: I mean I was the one who chose it like I was like you know okay I've lived in this tiny room for two and a half years. I think I've earned the right the upgrade and especially with them all like I think if it hadn't been for Joshua then I probably wouldn't have been able to like make such a convincing argument for it but like yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you pay a different amount based on the size of your room?
CLIENT: Nope. I do have a lot more of the public spaces so I'm going to have to like put things in my closet and not out everywhere and stuff so because all the spaces will belong to the person who's in them now. I mean I'm still going to have my spin wheel in the T.V. room and stuff but yeah I think if I have another dresser than I'll be fine because I like don't have enough room right now for all my clothing. It's not like I have massive amounts of clothing. But yeah so I'm just like a little bit worried about - and it wasn't that big a deal because I lived in Joan's room at the very beginning before the other room opened up when we had locked the house and there were other people who were like renting those rooms until like that August so I did it once I can do it again it's just I think now I have more stuff in them unpacked (ph). But yeah also because we haven't found a new roommate yet so it's not like it needs to be done right away. But it kind of does and so that whole thing is scary so that's a little bit impacting my mood. But I'm trying to not think about it but soon I will have to think about it and right now I can't do anything anyways. Joan's still in the room but yeah. [00:09:27]
THERAPIST: How do you feel about Israel? Not the country but the visit.
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm like guess it'll be good. I'll be with my family. I'll have my own room, (pause) which was one of my conditions because I did not want to actually share a room with grandma. It would drive me crazy I think.
THERAPIST: Are your brother and Doreen going?
CLIENT: Nope. No brother and Doreen going.
THERAPIST: You're happy about that. [00:10:08]
CLIENT: Yes. I mean Cullen has no interest in going to Israel and they both classes right now so that's okay. But also, yeah I'm missing (inaudible) like had sold it where Bridget was going to - Bridget is still going to stay in the guest bedroom at my place I just won't be there at all. Like any of the time that she's there so I won't actually get to see her and like when I had realized this wouldn't agree to the (inaudible) I was like oh shit I have like failed Bridget but Bridget was like fine with it. So, I have to like get her the key and all this stuff. It's all very, very soon but yeah I'm just. I don't know so I haven't really been thinking that much about it you know I haven't even done the whole like trying to figure out who of my friends are around in this road right now that I could get together with. Like who do I want to see because I have no idea? You know it's been four years and so like and a lot of people have sort of like transient like you know they're be in Israel studying for a year or two and then they're be gone so different friends would be in Israel and then we're there before but and it's also a really short trip. [00:11:34]
THERAPIST: How long are you going?
CLIENT: I think I leave, it's like on Sunday to a following Monday so like eight, nine days. So, pretty short.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: When do you think will be best to focus on Aiden?
(Pause)
CLIENT: I had an answer for you. Stuff about, so Sydney and I decided like we had sex and it kind of worked but not really and he thought that I might have some like psychological stuff and I'm not like sure other than what to do. Because originally like what we had done is like since the whole thing is I'm really small but I'm also like, I tense up was to get this set of like graduated dildos that were you know bigger and bigger until I could insert them and then one would be like about the size of his penis and then so we had like tried that over a period of a couple days which was fine that like you know it would, it would be uncomfortable and then I would get used to it and it'd be okay. But, like I guess like when we were having sex like it was like we only did it once and it was also uncomfortable although I was getting used to it but he said that like I was sort of like pushing him out which I think I was doing subconsciously and I don't. So, I don't know what to do you know because he's like you should relax. I'm like if I knew how to relax I would relax and so I have no clue what's actually wrong with me. [00:13:47]
THERAPIST: First of all there's probably nothing wrong with you.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You know most likely there's absolutely nothing wrong with you. The vaginal wall is an incredibly strong muscle. I mean that's all that it is, is you know one big muscle and its job is to contract and relax. So, you know most likely this is probably something to do with either being anxious or you know and whether that be you know in the moment or not and your muscles tend to contract when you're anxious. You also, this is the first time you've had intercourse right?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So there's also a lot to do with just you know not being used to that. It's different and it might take some time for your body to relax enough for it actually to feel enjoyable and to not be uncomfortable and that's okay. [00:14:41]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So, I think we shouldn't jump to any conclusion that something's wrong. You know you're pretty young, pretty healthy, you're probably just fine and I think the idea of trying the graduated cylinders to get your body kind of used to it is a great idea. A couple of days is really not that long. I mean you might want, you might think about extending that part of it.
CLIENT: Yeah and I mean we haven't - That was like over a week ago and then I got sick.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And right now I have my period anyways. So, we'll have to wait until after all that to try again.
THERAPIST: Is this a different decision for you. So I'm curious about how he feels about it and how you came to the decision to be sexually active with him or have intercourse with him.
CLIENT: It was like because I guess it was more (pause) because he was willing to wait because like originally he assumed like when he like you know saw my profile and (inaudible) worried about me and thought that like you know my decision was going to be to wait until marriage. [00:15:53]
THERAPIST: Based on. . . I don't know
CLIENT: Based on how I answered questions or something about the fact that I was religious and stuff. You know and I think at the time that I was answering those questions that was what I had been planning on and then I like sort of like [take his hand and was like let's take the] (ph) I guess. You know with Jonas like we never ended up having sex but that was also he was a virgin too and didn't want to like - he didn't want to hurt me and he didn't want to the like rock the boat at all and things so it never happened then. But like I don't know I guess I realized like - like my reasons for not having sex were like (pause) I don't know because I didn't really think there was anything morally wrong with it. It was more like because he is this thing that like I was going to have to work up to and in order to get it to be enjoyable and possibly get me pregnant were then there were all these other things that I don't have to work up to that are already enjoyable and won't get my pregnant. Like I think that was my big thing was like it could get me pregnant and I don't need this to be happy but - and then I decided I don't. Like it's something that could be pleasurable and I would try it and it was kind of weird the fact that like you know I already got to like the age of 25 without having sex at all. So, I don't know but I think the thing is that like I'm not sure like - I'm all like oh yes let's have all the sex ever and like maybe because it hasn't gotten to the point of being enjoyable yet so like maybe that's why I'm still like anxious about it and not like so like able to do it right now. I don't know. [00:17:47]
THERAPIST: Well, I think and you know being comfortable with what you've decided is the most important thing and having sex with him once doesn't mean that you have to get right back to it when you're finished with your period.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: And, I don't think you're abstaining during your period.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You know having it not be a fantastic first experience also doesn't mean that you can't do it again or that the second won't be better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think there's an extremely high learning curve and you know if he is really interested in being sexually active with you in that way and you're interested in being active with him in that way then you guys will figure out a way to make it work and make it pleasurable for both of you. And, it probably won't be you know - I heard you say you know it's this thing that you're going to have to work at to be enjoyable.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: It's not necessarily going to take forever. This is not training for a marathon.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But, first time and first time with a new partner you know isn't necessarily going to be the easiest time. Because it does take some time to learn what works for an individual person and I think most people are probably pretty nervous the first time they have sex anyway. Regardless of whether it's with a new partner or not. [00:19:03]
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Did you, I think you know the biggest things I think to pay attention to for your comfort is making sure that you've had enough foreplay to relax your muscles and to stimulate enough lubrication.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I mean we're also using the additional lubrication.
THERAPIST: That's a really smart idea because the smoother that is the less likely that you're going to feel any discomfort and I think what often happens for women is that if there is some discomfort initially then you tense up because that's a natural reaction to pain or discomfort is to tense up. Which of course makes it all the more uncomfortable right? It's like your body working against you. So those are important things but I wouldn't jump to the conclusions that there's something wrong with you physically or something wrong with you psychologically. I think this is probably pretty normal bump in the road for someone who is new to intercourse.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah (pause) but I don't know and it was like you know it's fine when he was inside of me but like thrusting hurt so he didn't really do that. But, you know because we did try a second time but I was too tense for it to get in and I was like no this isn't going to work. So he stopped because it wasn't going to work. [00:20:27]
THERAPIST: Well, and so if that - so if you can notice a difference between you know him being inside of you and not feeling okay then very often it's helpful you know just like you might do with the cylinders that he can just enter and be still for a bit or very small amounts of movement until your body relaxes and gets comfortable with that.
CLIENT: Okay, yeah. But, he wasn't even able to enter the second time because it was just not happening. So I think I have to go back to the cylinders.
THERAPIST: Yep, back to the cylinders and then the next time that you guys are fooling around lots and lots of foreplay. Lots of stimulation. Maybe manually. And, also something to kind of play with is just having him enter but not necessarily actually you know expecting him to climax that way. Because you know what you want to do is train, kind of train your body and your mind that this is a pleasurable thing. Sex can be a wonderful, pleasurable thing and if you don't put a lot of pressure on yourselves to have you know some particular set of sequence it will be a little bit easier. [00:21:39]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know so it can be something where he enters you. You kind of both just maybe be still for a little bit. Let your body get used to that and then maybe he withdraws and you, you know engage in some other sexual activity so that you don't feel like one that you're failing at something because you have some particular script of how it's supposed to go. There is no right script and that your body doesn't tense up and get nervous because you're about to do something that last time was painful. But, to have successful experience in just playing.
CLIENT: Yeah, well it does feel like I have to trick my body into something and it's really hard for me to trick myself into any of that. [00:22:22]
THERAPIST: So, I would say that so back of the expectation of what sex is supposed to be and do what feels good.
CLIENT: But, what feels good would just be to never have sex.
THERAPIST: No, but I think that would actually change. If you feel like you're really ready to do this that will probably, that will change rather quickly.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Because there doesn't have to be that much of a difference between you know manual stimulation. You know a finger or a penis or two fingers and a penis. You're body really doesn't know the difference. Only your mind knows the difference.
CLIENT: The size.
THERAPIST: So he can play with that right? So, he can't change the size of his penis but other ways that he might stimulate you. He can change that. You know he can use one of the cylinders or use a dildo or use more you know insert a finger or more fingers then.
CLIENT: Except that it's more pleasurable to not have a finger in there in the first place than to have it so at least for now so even that like the easiest thing was to not have sex because it you know like I haven't even really gotten to that point yet that like... [00:23:30]
THERAPIST: Okay, that that feels pleasurable.
CLIENT: That that feels pleasurable.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so then you have . . .
CLIENT: Like it no longer feels painful but. . .
THERAPIST: Okay, so then I think it does sound like you need kind of back off a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: The other thing to play with is where you having intercourse before you had a climax or after?
CLIENT: After. Because yeah like we both did like lots of foreplay beforehand.
THERAPIST: Okay, that sometimes - so you're going to have some vaginal contractions as part of an organism and then generally your body relaxes after that but so sometimes it can be helpful for you to have an orgasm and then to wait a little bit for all of the contractions to subside and then try insertion whether that be a finger, or a penis, or a dildo. Because you can kind of take advantage of some of the relaxation that happens following an orgasm. So I mean that's things to try but you know think of it as playing rather than trying to achieve some particular goal. I think your body will relax. I'm guessing it probably is anxiety related. [00:24:35]
CLIENT: Yeah. I figured this much. It's just you know hard to like - because it's hard to tell yourself to relax.
THERAPIST: It doesn't work.
CLIENT: It never does.
THERAPIST: No, it's thinking about, it's thinking about what is relaxing to you rather than commanding yourself to do a particular thing. So if you can think about some things that are typically comforting or relaxing that will actually achieve your goal more so than commanding yourself, "Georgia you got to relax right now." Because that's, that's stressful.
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think you've probably, you're probably very, very normal.
CLIENT: All except for most people have had sex way earlier than age 25.
THERAPIST: Your body doesn't work any differently and I think that probably depends a whole lot apparent who you're comparing yourself to.
CLIENT: Anyone else except for orthodox Jews. Anyone else. Like no one else. If people aren't extremely religious they are not waiting that long to have sex. [00:25:48]
THERAPIST: Nothing is different about an extremely religious person's body and a non-extremely religious person's body. You know sex doesn't work any differently at 26 or 21 or 37. Your body doesn't change that much.
CLIENT: I know but if you get older and the muscles get stronger and you've waited longer and longer before like having sex it wouldn't harder then?
THERAPIST: I don't know.
CLIENT: Then if I'd tried this when I was like 15.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don't know about that. I mean I don't know about that. I don't know if the muscles really change that much with age. You have a good biology question.
CLIENT: Yeah and I could be psyching myself out but (pause) yeah it seems like you know most people like enjoy having sex so. . .[00:26:47]
THERAPIST: And I think that you will get to a - you will also probably get to a place if this a, if this is you know sounds like he's a caring partner.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You will be able to enjoy it too. Most people do not enjoy their first encounter and most people even with previous experience don't necessarily enjoy their first encounter with a new person because you know why the basics of sex are pretty basic and bodies aren't that differently constructed but people do have different responses to what's pleasurable and what's not. And that, that takes some experience and some practice with a partner to figure out how their body works. How their body you know - the more nuanced things about their and because you haven't had a lot of experience the vaginal walls may be probably tighter but that does - they're muscles. It's not bone so they can relax but it might take having some successful experiences with something closer to what vaginal intercourse would be like. [00:27:48]
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah. (Pause) The whole thing is just. . .
THERAPIST: It sounds like you sound hesitant about it.
CLIENT: Yeah and I think I made the right decision but then it's just sort of weird it's like then why did I never end up having sex with Jonas.
THERAPIST: Do you feel Sydney pushed you in a way that Jonas didn't?
CLIENT: No I don't. I think I pushed myself.
THERAPIST: How come? Why are you pushing yourself?
CLIENT: Because I felt that, that like you know you hear he's saying that it's like really pleasurable to him that I, that I - even it could be really pleasurable to me but I just haven't you know even though he's fine but I know he probably would happier. He would be happier having sex then not having sex he just also doesn't want to hurt me so. . . [00:29:00]
THERAPIST: So it sounds a little bit like sex out of guilt.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Now, I'm not going to judge your decision to have sex but having sex out of feelings - to alleviate feelings of guilt is probably not the best motivator for enjoyable sex.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I mean I think it needs to be something - where it makes complete sense that you would be a little bit hesitant about the physical aspect if it because it's something new and because you're experience to this date has been that it hasn't been such a great one. You know so being hesitant about it for those reasons is you know I don't think that's a red flag.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But feeling like you're doing something because you feel badly for him, that's a little bit of a red flag to me. That that's not you doing it because you want. That's you doing it because you don't want to upset him. See the difference? [00:30:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) I mean I think if I change my mind he'd be okay. Probably disappointed but okay like I don't he'd like - he wouldn't break up with me certainly. But, . . . (pause)
THERAPIST: And I think just making sure that you really feel ready for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe I will like hold off. Well definitely a couple weeks but maybe more than that we'll see. That's yeah I mean I also don't think I'm at the point yet that I'm in love with him. At this point we've been dating for almost a month but it hasn't quite gotten there yet. [00:31:02]
THERAPIST: So, I mean you might find that you just feel more comfortable with a little bit more time. Just in general feel more comfortable and being more comfortable with someone makes sexual activity with them more pleasurable. You know just as you sort of feel more comfortable saying this feels good, this doesn't. This is what I like, this is yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I know now like (inaudible) just be like totally like weird because like I've also like had like no you know while I've been sick and that's like something that like never happens even but I was that sick.
THERAPIST: Well when you're having trouble breathing that becomes more important than other things.
CLIENT: This is true. We're like being (inaudible) with that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean because I can still hear it sounds like you're laboring for breath more than you, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you fully recovered.
CLIENT: Yeah I probably should have taken a Sudafed today. I'll probably take one when I get home. But, that's why I have the really strong ginger ale to like clear out my sinuses and stuff. So it's really strong but yeah like so I don't know how like the libido is like messing with my emotions and stuff so. . . [00:32:16]
THERAPIST: Well you still feel yourself. Hard time to you know kind of get a sense of feelings about something that's maybe a little bit conflicted for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know like we're like if I haven't fallen in love with him yet like will I fall in love with him or not and (pause) I mean there's no reason why I shouldn't and like you know I definitely like - I mean it's like I want to be with him and I don't - you know we've been spending all this time together and hasn't like bothered me or anything like that. I haven't been like oh my God I need all the space ever you know I could hang out with him for like infinite amounts of time and be fine and he's like pretty much the same way. We've spent like almost every night together either at my place or at his place and like even like now like he dropped me off here and now he's going grocery shopping and do his laundry. And then like tonight I'm going to go over to his place for dinner because he really wants to cook for me. [00:33:22]
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like things with you are going really well.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And, you know letting yourself enjoy that and not pressuring yourself to jump ahead either emotionally or physically but just enjoying where you are and letting yourself get better. And then kind of just letting maybe see what happens a little bit more rather than pushing to make things happen.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you have any - I mean I guess another thing that helps which is kind of understanding your own anatomy and what we're working - do you, are there books that you've read or do you want some suggestions?
CLIENT: For what?
THERAPIST: Sex.
CLIENT: Oh, uh-huh. I mean it's been a while since I've been pretty you know like since I've like had sex-ed back in middle school or something so. . .
THERAPIST: You could probably find you something more age appropriate. [00:34:16]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah instead of having the sex talk with my parents they gave me books to read, which was a lot less awkward and then I didn't have to talk to them about sex and if I have kids I will probably do the exact same thing (coughing). So yeah I read the Dr. Ruth talks to kid's book. So yeah I guess more reading would be.
THERAPIST: I can look and see if there's some more you know geared toward adults. I mean it actually sounds like you know just I mean the kind of work that you did with the dildos and things of that, those are all really nice ways to introduce your body to something so you're building off - you know wherever, whoever came up with that. That's good intuition. But there is some stuff out there geared toward adults to sort of just helping you be comfortable and not jumping to like oh gosh there's something wrong with me because this doesn't feel the way I imagined it should. [00:35:14]
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So I'll do some scouting and I can have recommendations for you next week.
CLIENT: Okay, that works.
THERAPIST: I'm also perfectly comfortable talking about it so you don't have to you know - I'm not giving you a book in lieu of that.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Additional information and stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Then sometimes it's helpful to have something that you can consult more in the moment. If something feels like it's not working quite right. Sometimes there are positions that might be more comfortable than another and you know letting yourselves experiment with that.
CLIENT: Yeah, we did a little bit of experimenting with positions but. . .
THERAPIST: Also, it's really early you know. And I just mean that you know you guys haven't been together that long so you don't have to figure everything out in the first couple months. You know if this is going to be an important relationship you probably have lots of time to figure out exactly what works best. You don't have to figure it all out the first time. [00:36:14]
CLIENT: Just, it's so weird that I've been sick and like it keeps messing with my libido and how much that's messing with mind and I don' know. I can't really like see where like my minds ends and the sickness beings like. . .
THERAPIST: Well they're probably not separate.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You know I also imagine that because you had an uncomfortable experience that also can make you just kind of shy away and shot your libido down a little bit. It'll come back.
CLIENT: But like I still would want to do other things then that also had been gone because I've been that sick.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like you've felt pretty lousy.
CLIENT: And I did.
THERAPIST: Go to the more basic functions.
CLIENT: Yeah, even when I went to the doctor I thought it was just going to be like okay you have cold. Go home. And like she was all like you know well I had an elevated heart rate but part of that was because I was drinking caramel Frappuccino early and I probably shouldn't have but that was the only caffeine I'd had like that entire time of being sick mind you. But, I chose to have one that morning because it was lots of calories and tasty. And so then like after like the caffeine like a little bit like they were all like yeah but they eventually got a more normal reading on me. But when I had it like you know they were like worried and then they were like we need to do blood tests. We need to do an EKG. You know I was all like. They ended up not doing the blood test because the EKG turned normal but yeah I've never had the EKG before and I was just like wow this must be really serious if they're giving me an EKG. I thought they were just going to tell me you have a cold, don't worry you're fine. [00:38:01]
THERAPIST: You've been pretty sick. So I think it makes sense that your libido would be down. Especially with that amount of stress on your body. I mean being sick is a stressor to your body.
CLIENT: Yeah, well she said my congestive would clear up in three to four days and that was Wednesday and it's Monday and they congestion. . .
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're still pretty congested.
CLIENT: Yeah and part of it because I didn't take any Sudafed yet today and I probably should've but like even so like at least all the dizziness has gone but I'm just like. . .
THERAPIST: That's good. I wonder if they thought dehydration. It sounds like they were really pushing fluids.
CLIENT: They were and they were saying drink 10 to 12 glasses of water and have three bottles of pedialyte or something.
THERAPIST: That's a lot.
CLIENT: And, I didn't quite - I haven't actually been able to drink as much as they've been telling me to but I'm no longer as severely dehydrated as I was like in previous like I was - I was really dehydrated like that day that I was at the doctor but I'm better but not like 100 percent better. Now that I have my period it's like oh great now I'm losing more fluids. Like at the time I was like well I feel miserable anyways, I might as well get it all over with and have my period now. I have libido anyways you know but in retrospect it wasn't necessarily the wisest of decisions because. . .[00:39:18]
THERAPIST: It wasn't really a decision.
CLIENT: Yes it was.
THERAPIST: Oh, you're on the pill.
CLIENT: I'm on the pill. Yeah. I've been on the pill all along to deal with like the mood stuff because the whole like when I have my period the thoughts increase so I'm on the pill now so that lets me have my period less often. But, I knew it would have to come sometime in the near future so I decided to have it now so yes it was my decision.
THERAPIST: It was a conscious decision on your part.
CLIENT: Yes it was. (Pause). I mean it wasn't the worst decision I could have made. I guess I just should have though more through the whole - now I have to drink even more fluids and stuff but yeah. I don't know and it's also like how much do I push myself with all the other aspects of my life right now and I'm still sort of sick and like feeling guilty that I'm still sick and like that I did miss rehearsal yesterday when I had told them that I was going to be able to make it. [00:40:29]
THERAPIST: Well you have to think about what's most important and yes push yourself a little bit but you don't want to push yourself so much that you cause more stress.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: On your body or emotionally. So find that delicate balance. You know it might be possible to start some cover letters and then wait a day or two to give yourself more time to proof it. You may need a little bit of extra time because your concentration might not be as good but it doesn't mean you can't do anything. You know maybe if you feel well enough to go to the next rehearsal maybe you don't participate for the whole thing. I mean give yourself some lead way.
CLIENT: I mean when I written them the e-mail telling that I was going to come I was like I might end up leaving early or curling up in a little ball in the corner at some point. But, so I could do that.
THERAPIST: I mean it doesn't have to be all or nothing. I think finding a balance where you push yourself a little bit but the most important thing is that you get better. [00:41:30]
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's also just sort of worrying that I haven't gotten better yet and it's been like a couple weeks since I've gotten sick. Like I've been sick pretty much all month almost.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah I mean give yourself a couple more days and see what happens and if you haven't gotten appreciably better you can always call back and say you know it doesn't seem to be following the course that you anticipated because she thought that your congestion would be appreciably better or less I guess.
CLIENT: I mean its better. It's just not 100 percent better. You know I'm not like coughing all the time and I'm not as dizzy as I was. It's just.
THERAPIST: Well hopefully you'll notice even more changes in that direction.
CLIENT: Yeah probably very soon. I mean I'll have to take the Sudafed today but I've having this much trouble breathing right now. [00:42:32]
THERAPIST: The day's not over.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: You can still take it.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I will when I get home and now I'm like also like these errands in between that and also feeling guilty about yeah the fact that I've had to missed all these shifts of (inaudible) because I wasn't going to go near food while I was sick and impact all of health. But that also means that I didn't make any of that money. And, not working for like two weeks and that's like a hundred dollars right there that I could've had and didn't because I didn't work it because I was sick. And so. . . [00:43:18]
THERAPIST: Reasonable decision to make though.
CLIENT: I mean in the scheme of things like a hundred dollars is nothing if I can find a real job. But, I haven't found a real job yet so the whole thing - yeah I also a freak out a few. Like last week about like the whole - or actually it was more than one - it was almost two weeks ago that I had the freak out about like not having a job and stuff. But, just feeling kind of worthless about you know and guilty about spending any money at all what so ever because anything that isn't food or rent is not a necessity and here I am not making much to cover anything.
THERAPIST: Guilt is a hard feeling to carry around. [00:44:15]
CLIENT: A lot of it. (Pause). And then it's like I'm bound to bounce off (inaudible) so I haven't been writing any cover letters.
THERAPIST: Well maybe, take some Sudafed. See if it helps you to feel a little better and then maybe set a goal to look online and see if there is anything you would actually want to write a cover letter for and that's it for the day. And then maybe tomorrow you have enough energy to focus if there was something that was worth writing a cover letter for.
CLIENT: I mean there is something I need to write a cover letter for.
THERAPIST: Ah, you already know one exists huh?
CLIENT: Yes and it basically - it's actually at the [inaudible]. So it's pretty much - it's not quite the same thing that I was doing this summer but it's very similar to what I was doing this summer except for money.
THERAPIST: Well you don't want to miss out on that opportunity.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So why don't you look though the cover - you already have a bunch of cover letters written.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So see if there's one that you could work from. You know that wouldn't, that would be able to be fairly similar and take it in steps like that. You know if you have one written that would work really well and you only have to make a few changes here and there. You could probably mustered up the focus to work on it for a little bit at a time and get that one written. Have someone proof it for you since you might not feel as good as typical. But you're not starting from scratch. [00:45:39]
CLIENT: I'm not starting - I feel that was the worry because I thought that Yale interview - I'm not going through that recruiter again and like you know I can't like - it isn't like I'm just sending the letter to the ladies and they choose who they're hiring it has to go through the rest of Yale. And the other thing is also only temporary assignment for like now-ish or whenever it starts until November. So the timing is kind of weird and then I would have to find something and by then my health insurance would be gone.
THERAPIST: Don't talk yourself out of a job yet.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I mean this is a potentially good opportunity.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Let yourself take it step by step. Don't talk yourself out of having it already. [00:46:23]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today? I thank you for bringing up the sex topic. I know sometimes it's a hard one to initiate.
CLIENT: It is but maybe I needed to talk about it.
THERAPIST: Well I think it's an important thing to pay attention to. I mean when you're really ready you want to build a good experience with it. I will look and see if I can get some recommendations for an adult audience book. Maybe that would help you guys talk about it or figure out a way to make it enjoyable when you're both really ready.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And we're on for our regular time next week.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And then when do you leave for Israel?
CLIENT: Let me pull up my calendar.
END TRANSCRIPT
