Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are you today?
CLIENT: I'm okay (ph). I have a psychiatrist appointment set up.
THERAPIST: How did you do that? - [or a] (ph) sooner one?
CLIENT: Yes, a sooner - for a week from tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Okay, that's not so far away, is it? So how did you - what did you do? How did you manage that?
CLIENT: I ended up - so I ended up calling the number that Sydney's (ph) therapist had given me.
THERAPIST: Okay, great.
CLIENT: I left her a message yesterday and, then, she called back this morning while I was in the shower. And, then, I called her back. And, then, she called me back. Now, [I've got] (ph) an actual appointment and her address because she [sounded real good] (ph). But, that is (ph) totally fine.
THERAPIST: Great, I'm glad that worked out.
CLIENT: Yes. So, I don't really - I assume that she's good.
THERAPIST: Well, it's nice that you got a - sort of, a personal recommendation (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yes, and she does take my insurance so - [00:01:01]
THERAPIST: That helps.
CLIENT: Yes, all is well with that, at least.
THERAPIST: Well, good for you for calling. I know that you dread those phone calls.
CLIENT: Yes, though (ph) this was easier, at least, because it was only one and not cold-calling all the people, and stuff, and that she's able to - yes, there was an appointment and I could have gone (ph) to her Friday but it would have conflicted with our appointment. So I decided, instead, to do the Tuesday one. But, you know, [the fact] (ph) that ...
THERAPIST: She had options to give...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...you.
CLIENT: (inaudible) - yes, she seems to have actual availability, and stuff, which is good. And if she takes my insurance, then I'm apt (ph) to see her more often. It doesn't matter too much. I assume I will, probably, take a few of my meds (ph), at least to get everything regulated and stuff.
THERAPIST: And how have you been feeling?
CLIENT: I'm feeling okay. Today I was feeling, kind of, panicky, due to going out to lunch with Sydney (ph). [00:02:01] So he likes this place which is right down the street - yes, right there. I had never been there before.
THERAPIST: This time of year always throws me because it looks like its snowing. (laughter)
CLIENT: (inaudible) And I had never been inside before so the whole atmosphere - and, you know, the fact that there's this table in the middle and everybody is sitting at this one table, next to strangers, and it was really loud. I couldn't hear everything - anything. It was just so...
THERAPIST: Overwhelming environment for you?
CLIENT: ...overwhelming, yes. And he apologized afterwards but (ph) he didn't realize it was going to overwhelm me. But I, also, didn't realize it was going to overwhelm me, either. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Had he been there? He knew what the set-up was?
CLIENT: He knew what the set-up was. He only...
THERAPIST: So he wasn't surprised by that, but you were.
CLIENT: I was, yes. He told me, either last night or this morning, about the whole communal table thing and I was like, "Oh," (chuckles) "yes, thanks for telling me this. That is useful information." He's like, "Oh, yes. I'm used to giving food recommendations to people sitting next to me and stuff." And I was like, "Okay, yes." [00:03:14]
THERAPIST: Did you - once you heard that it was a communal table, did you anticipate that that would be anxiety provoking for you?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: No, okay.
CLIENT: Not quite. I mean, I think it was the communal table plus the loud environment and - yes, loud and lack of space and stuff, is what did it for me.
THERAPIST: So what were you actually feeling in the moment?
CLIENT: Well, I was feeling anxious so - yes.
THERAPIST: Can you describe what that anxiety was like more? Was it thoughts? Was it feelings?
CLIENT: It wasn't real (ph) thoughts. I guess, more like the physical feeling of anxiety is what it was.
THERAPIST: Feeling kind of crowded and - how long did it last? Did it stick for the whole lunch or did it fade? [00:04:08] No, it stuck for the whole lunch, you're nodding your head.
CLIENT: Yes. Oh, yes. (chuckles) The recording would not tape that - (chuckles)
THERAPIST: No, no (inaudible) -
CLIENT: Yes, for the whole lunch. And, then, a little bit afterwards, we hung out in the (inaudible) for a little bit. So I was able to (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: And how was that?
CLIENT: Better. Yes, I guess I should have taken an anti-anxiety but I never got around to it, slash (ph), I wasn't going to go under the table and pull out my bag in the middle of the restaurant so -
THERAPIST: So what stopped you from walking in and walking out?
CLIENT: Because - well, first of all, it wasn't like we were sitting next to people right away; it was later - people seated right next to us and it was, you know, Sydney's (ph) favorite place. And he really wanted to be there and I didn't think that the anxiety would last the entire time. So, yes. I guess, in the future, he can go by himself, which he's okay with. [00:05:10] And it's just, very much, like - and he got a root beer float. He was like, "Oh, the ice cream's really good. Here, [its food] (ph)." (inaudible) not expecting. (inaudible)
I don't like people - its one thing to offer me food that you've cooked this dish and it's for everyone. I don't really like people having me taste things off their plate, or whatever. I don't know why. I just found the whole thing weird and Sydney (ph) likes to do that. He, at least, made the conscious decision to not actually feed it to me but to give me the spoon. But, still, I was just like -
THERAPIST: Is that something you've talked about before? Does he know that you don't like that?
CLIENT: I mean, we talked about it then but then he's like - needs to get used to it. [00:06:07] Before - because we were at a date one time, we were at Friday's (ph), and we had gotten the chocolate mousse cake. And he wanted to feed it to me and I was like, "Um - " Because there was - also, like, "Okay, this is too much PDA and all these other people in the restaurant did not consent to this PDA, therefore, I don't want to do that." So I explained that to him. So there's the PDA aspect (ph) - and, there, it wasn't even like him giving me his (ph) - they (ph) were sharing that dessert. And I'm like...
THERAPIST: And that feels okay for you to share a dessert?
CLIENT: Sharing a dessert, fine. But, yes, that was fine. But, you know, if he orders something and I order something - I order something, I don't feel the need to try his thing, whereas, he wants to try more things. And I'm, I guess, a lot more set in my ways [in that] (ph) I'm a picky eater [but way less bad] than I've ever - ever was in, you know, growing up - elementary school, middle school. [00:07:09]
I mean, the keeping kosher thing made that more complex but, still - and, also, feeling vindicated because when (inaudible) was around and [he made me like] (ph) 10 different foods, total. And I was like, "If he can survive to adulthood with that, then I am totally fine for my - just a few different things." But, still, compared to him - and he wants to go out to all the different restaurants and all [the things] (ph) and I'm just like, "Do we really need to?" So, you know, I'm fine with him going off and doing his stuff by himself. And I think it will, probably, be easier once either or both of us, has a job.
THERAPIST (?): Right now, there's so much time -
CLIENT: - together. But, yes, there's (ph) different styles. [00:08:06] And I feel like it's something that we can, probably, overcome. I feel bad that I don't want to try all the restaurants and stuff, like he does. And he even said, even if we had been living somewhere, like New York, that has - I don't know, somewhere between 50 and 100 kosher restaurants, I'm guessing; I have no idea how many kosher restaurants they actually have.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) a lot more.
CLIENT: But, a lot. But he'd, still, want to show - you know, [he said he thinks there were] (ph) lots and lots of kosher restaurants. There's, also, all these non-kosher restaurants and he did want to show me his favorite hole in the wall, whatever, place. And, so - and I'm already trying to overcome my whole "it feels a little bit wrong for me to eat vegetarian food (inaudible) non-kosher restaurant", but there are - when I [eat in a place] (ph) where there are kosher, at least - or a place that's all vegetarian options, you know? [00:09:05]
THERAPIST: So the ...
CLIENT: Eating vegetarian in a non-kosher restaurant, that serves (inaudible)
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yes, and I'm really trying to get used to that. But it's like add that, plus all the trying (ph) the different restaurants, it's like...
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're feeling a lot of pressure.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, I've (ph) told him, and he realizes, that this is the way I am. But it's like he - you know, but he was really excited about showing me this place and he said they had really good fries. And they have really good fries. But I don't know that really good fries are worth the anxiety, probably not.
THERAPIST: So I wonder if part of the anxiety was, also, that you felt a little bit conflicted about eating in a non-kosher restaurant.
CLIENT: It's not like this was the first time I've done it. We've been doing it for a while; pretty much for almost the entirety of our relationship, just because it (ph) felt bad limiting him to (inaudible) - less than 10 different options of actual restaurants to eat in. [00:10:20] [And I] (ph) felt unfair so I've been trying to branch out. [But, then,] (ph) he wants me to try all these different styles, like, "we could go to Indian food." I'm like, "I'm not into Indian food." And it's not really his thing either but, for some reason, yesterday, he was thinking of Indian food. And we didn't get Indian food but I just - especially, it has to be - if it's going to be a non-kosher restaurant, it has to be a non-kosher restaurant with sufficient options that are vegetarian; otherwise, the whole thing fails. [00:11:00]
THERAPIST: And how do you feel about that? Like, if you get a vegetarian option?
CLIENT: Sometimes the thing is that if I'm following the straight (ph) (inaudible) laws, (ph) you're not supposed to eat something that has been cooked in an oven that has cooked (inaudible) at the same time, which I am sure is the case for any non-kosher restaurant.
THERAPIST: Right, why would they - why would they have separate ovens?
CLIENT: They wouldn't. And, I guess...
THERAPIST: I'm assuming...
(Crosstalk at 00:11:35)
CLIENT: ...and, or, an oven that has cooked non-kosher meat, which is also going to be the case in any place that's not vegetarian. So I am, actually, making rules (ph). And the concern of (inaudible) - at some point, it came up, was (inaudible) response as to why it was okay to eat vegetarian at non-kosher restaurants. [00:12:02]
At least, I think that's the conclusion we came up with; I never, actually, really - I think I ended up skimming it and this was back when I was not thinking of eating in non-kosher restaurants. And I'm not sure what their reasoning was; it was, probably, like, "Oh, well, it's too hard to only eat in kosher restaurants." But, the fact is, it's - you know, if I were to go out to restaurants only once a week...
THERAPIST: It didn't feel too hard for you.
CLIENT: Yes, it didn't ...
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: ...when you weren't dating him, it was something that you could do; you could stick to just kosher restaurants in this area. And you felt okay with that.
CLIENT: Yes, no - yes, because - yes, at least, here. You know, it's one thing if I'm going to another country or something like that...
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: And...
THERAPIST: But (ph) you felt like you had enough options here that it was - it was doable.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And you'd been living that lifestyle for years.
CLIENT: Yes, so giving that up was already, kind of, hard; it was a big compromise for me. [00:13:04] So, then, when he's, also, still wanting to try all the different places, which may or may not have sufficient vegetarian options for me, it's just (ph) more pressure. And it's like, "Isn't it enough that I've - ?"
THERAPIST: So do I sense that you're feeling a little bit resentful?
CLIENT: Maybe a little. [But I] (ph) wasn't feeling actively resentful. It's just all the pressure, you know? And he was resentful a little bit, a few days ago, that I was all set in my ways and - the problem is, also, he's still recovering, in a way, from having his abusive ex. Because one of things that he mentioned - he's like, "Oh, you know, when you (inaudible), we could listen to podcasts together, blah, blah, blah." And, the thing is, I was - my response was something along the lines - I was like, "Oh, that would be okay (ph)." You know, I wasn't really, really, enthused but I said, "Oh, that would be cool."
I wouldn't - I had to explain to him that I wouldn't have said that if I wasn't okay with the idea and if I - it was something I, actively, did not want to do, I would tell him it was something I, actively, did not want to do, so that I would be okay doing these things. [00:14:16] And (inaudible) he can go to lunch by himself or go and hang out with his friends at non-kosher restaurants. And I'm fine with that; I don't need to come along all the time.
THERAPIST: Does he want you to come along all the time? Is he okay going out by himself or with friends instead of you?
CLIENT: (inaudible) going out with his friends - it was something that they set up, or whatever, but if its lunch in the afternoon and we're both around, he'd rather have me around, I think. But (pause) - yes, especially right now, while (ph) both of us are unemployed. [00:15:02] Which, I mean, I guess, (inaudible) you want to go out and eat with your significant other.
At the same time, I don't want to make him not be able to go to all the restaurants he wants to go to. So, therefore, I think the better option is for him to, sometimes, go without me. And, (pause) yes, it just - when I'm really - he suggests something and I'm like, "Oh, well, I don't know if they'd have enough for me there." I feel bad because I'm limiting his options still, which - yes, and the problem - it still is, also, like his place - I don't really have much control over the kitchen, or something, whereas, if I were at my place, it would be - you know, I can just cook myself something at my place and it will be pasta, or something really easy like that. [00:16:04]
THERAPIST: And it's really important for you to feel comfortable with the choices that you're making.
CLIENT: I feel like I don't know, like is - if it's doing this - actively breaking this rule, because I feel like it's unfair to the person I'm dating. I don't know if that's, really, a good enough reason to be doing what I'm doing. I mean, but other people do it all the time and -
THERAPIST: People make lots of different choices about which rules they're going to follow and why. And you need to be - you know, it's a personal decision, for you, to determine which rules you're going to follow and why. And that might be - you might choose, at this stage of your life, to follow different rules than you followed at another phase of your life. [00:17:01] The important piece is for you to feel comfortable with the choices you're making. And it sounds like, right now, you haven't - you haven't yet decided if you're comfortable with choosing to follow some aspects of the kosher laws and not others.
CLIENT: Yes, but, then, it's like...
THERAPIST: People make all sorts of different interpretations about how they practice. But it's not about what some other person chooses; it's about what you're choosing.
CLIENT: (inaudible) - to talk to, who (ph) would be like, "Oh, yeah, what you're doing is totally fine." I doubt that there's a rabbi, who thinks that keeping kosher is important, that would be able to tell me what I'm doing is fine. There'd be rabbis who don't think keeping kosher is important at all but that's ...
THERAPIST: ...and, so, therefore, keeping kosher the way that you're doing it right now, would be fine for them.
CLIENT: Yes, so - but that's...
THERAPIST: But would that be meaningful to you?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So that's - that's what matters.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:18:01] (pause) I really don't know what to (inaudible) make it okay.
THERAPIST: So let's look at what does keeping kosher mean for you, what makes it important? Because, like you just said, there are some rabbis that would think that this is not important. But it's important for you. So what makes it meaningful for you?
CLIENT: (inaudible) not so much it's meaningful. It's this thing that I feel obligated to do, in terms of [all of] (ph) Judaism is an obligation - or, not all of it; large parts of Judaism are obligations, you know? And, I think - like Shabbat (ph) used to be a lot more meaningful. When I was at [inaudible] (ph), everyone was keeping Shabbat (ph) and that would be the time that you would hang out with your friends and all that. But, now, I'm finding it a little bit more limiting.
THERAPIST: What makes you obligated to it? [00:19:01]
CLIENT: Because God told Jesus that they had to do these things. And that, at some point, I decided to be religious and that I would follow all these things. And (sighs) you're not supposed to just pick and choose the laws that you like. But, I mean, I do that to some extent (ph), when I think that there's, really, no reason for something and it can't be justified and just rabbis being stupid. Pretty much anything that is - involves gender roles and stuff like that or things that involve how to treat Non-Jews. A lot of that can be, kind of, racist and those are things that - they are not even explicitly in the Torah - like things that rabbis later came up with. And I'm like, "Okay, well, you don't have any basis for this, other than this is - you should not be (inaudible)" -
With the gender roles, the whole - like where a lot of Orthodox rabbis will say that women shouldn't wear pants. [00:20:01] The only reason they can give for this is like, "Oh, pants are a licentious garment and it's in law and its blah, blah, blah." They can't give any good reason for it. So I decided, "Okay, they can't give a good reason for it, therefore, it's stupid; therefore, I'm not going to do it." But something in the Torah, or has Torah basis, is harder for me to just ignore because it's not rabbis being stupid, it's actually in this document.
Granted, the (inaudible) laws in the document - in the Torah are a lot less strict than they've become but that's the way they've been interpreted for centuries. And I really don't want to just pick and choose, and decide, "Okay, well, I can keep this law biblically," which - its (ph) very few Jews (ph) consider themselves keeping kosher - [would be] (ph) like, "Okay, I keep kosher because I don't boil a calf [in its] (ph) mother's milk," you know, literally that. [00:21:04]
But, then, would eat a cheeseburger, or something, because (ph) you're not boiling (inaudible) in its mother's milk. So, not even if you took (inaudible) literally; but no one does. And, I guess, also, being part of the Jewish community and stuff is keeping kosher. And I don't know, part of me (ph) thinks that, maybe, I'm being (ph) judged. I'm (ph), probably, keeping less kosher than I used to or something.
THERAPIST: Judged by whom?
CLIENT: By the people in the Jewish community.
THERAPIST: Like random people in the Jewish community or do you - ? Are there specific people about whom you're concerned would be judging you?
CLIENT: [I think more] (ph) random people, even though - I'm not really even sure who keeps really strict kosher, other than (inaudible) [00:21:59] Well, Lucy will eat at vegetarian restaurants; (inaudible) won't. So I could go to them with Lucy; I could not go to these places (ph) with the both of them. So I already know that the two of them are different on that. But, still, I'm (ph) so used to eating kosher (inaudible) - so I know how - I don't think they'd, actively, go out and judge me.
I mean, they were also - didn't judge me when I was dating Cal, who wasn't Jewish, and wasn't intending on being Jewish ever. So - and that's, probably, a more serious thing than eating food that is not as kosher as it should be. That's, still, different between - not, actively, eating un-kosher meat (ph) or eating pork, or something like that, or mixing milk and meat. [00:23:01] So it's more, just like, those other laws that [were tacked on] with the whole (inaudible) and everything else.
It's hard to still want to consider myself a part of the community, without feeling, sort of, fake, for pretending to keep kosher when I'm keeping less kosher than I used to do (ph).
THERAPIST: That's important, what you just said, because you feel like you're pretending.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And, I think, that sense of - I wonder if part of what you're talking about is feeling authentic. [Are you] (ph) feeling like an authentic member of a community, of which you've been a part of for a really long time?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like you're worried that you won't feel like a true member of this community, your community.
CLIENT: (inaudible) thinking most of the people that (inaudible), I'm pretty sure that most of them, probably, keep - you know, probably, would eat dairy (ph) out at non-kosher restaurants or, maybe, don't even keep kosher at all. [00:24:01] And everyone in the house, at this point, eats dairy out at non-kosher restaurants. Obviously, the baby doesn't count because he's only eating formula right now, (laughs) but everyone else.
THERAPIST: I don't, really, know that you can count him for most...
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: He's not making decisions at this point. (laughs)
CLIENT: Yes, he's not making decisions; he's not even Jewish yet, because he - but they're converting - Aaron (ph) is converting him at six months, when all the adoption stuff is completely finalized. But, yes, Aaron (ph) does, Aimee (ph) does, Joan (ph) did, while she still lived in the house - now, she's gone - Rebecca (ph) does, so -
THERAPIST: And you consider these people a part of your community.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, I was the last one in the house to start eating dairy out at non-kosher restaurants. Yes, I was the last one, I think. [00:25:00] (sighs) - like, "they all do it and they're all (inaudible)" -
THERAPIST: That sigh, what does that mean?
CLIENT: [I don't know] (ph), like I should be - if they're okay, well, then, I don't know why I'm not okay with it, just because I've been so used to keeping this really, really strict level of [kosher at] (ph) the beginning. And, to be going downhill, since then, -
THERAPIST: Downhill, that's a pretty judgmental word.
CLIENT: Well, from the perspective that this is something that should (ph) be...
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: - less strict.
CLIENT: And it's not even like I care what other people do. I'm not going to judge people if they don't keep kosher at all, or whatever. That is their prerogative and that's cool. I don't think that - yes, because there are a lot of Orthodox Jews who think that every single person who is Jewish, is obligated into (ph) all these laws and they're sinning if they're not keeping them. So I don't come from that perspective but, yet, I'm putting this...
THERAPIST: But you do put those strict rules...
CLIENT: ...on myself. [00:26:00]
THERAPIST: - that strict expectation on yourself, to follow -
CLIENT: Especially because it's still possible. Its, just, inconvenient but it's not - I wouldn't starve. I would eat at home more often or eat in the city more often, but I would not starve if I only ate at kosher and vegetarian restaurants. And (pause) so it's hard. And, the thing is, Sydney (ph) realizes that I'm compromising my religious beliefs and feels badly about it and doesn't want me to compromise them (ph) any more than I have to. But...
THERAPIST: But you don't really (ph) have to.
CLIENT: I don't really have to, yes. But, at the same time, it felt unfair limiting (ph) his choice of restaurants to less than 10 choices, especially if we were going out to eat that often. [00:27:00] Because, even when he does finish his conversion, he's planning on keeping less strict kosher and thinking - he's definitely - he'll, probably - he'll stop eating non-kosher animals and stuff but might eat meat from beef that wasn't kosherly slaughtered, or something like that.
He isn't even sure what he's going to do yet but he can't really find a way to make kosher meaningful to him. So, therefore, he's not sure what he's going to do. But, at this point, he isn't keeping kosher at all. And he, also - but he, also, totally respects my desire to have a kosher house and would be fine with that. But, with going to restaurants, he does not keep kosher at all, (pause) which works for him. [00:28:02] [And he says] (ph) that he's not even Jewish yet, so that's his choice.
THERAPIST: And is that comfortable for you, to be with him and have him - have such a different perspective?
CLIENT: [I think so] (ph). Well, I guess, I went out less often with Jonas (ph). Jonas (ph) is like - he only bought kosher meat and stuff. He would eat at non-kosher restaurants but he didn't eat pork. But he did eat shellfish; at least once he went to the [inaudible]. He was like, "Well, you know, it is what is known (ph)" - the food - what the [inaudible] is known for food wise. So it's not like it's the first time I've dated someone with more - with less strict rules than mine were. Yes, it's just the difference is that me and Jonas (ph) were only going out like every week, or every other week. It was a lot easier to rotate all the kosher restaurants and/or vegetarian restaurants, and not have it be a problem. [00:29:19] (pause)
THERAPIST: That (ph) does sound like something you need to find your comfort with, kind of, figure out really what is comfortable for you.
CLIENT: Yes, it doesn't feel fair to keep - expect Sydney (ph) to keep as kosher as I am keeping. It's his choice. I don't want to impose my beliefs on him; that just makes it really hard when we're going out to eat and stuff. [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: Yet, (ph) how do you not impose on one another to some degree - a compromise, really, is some degree of your views impacting him and his views impacting you.
CLIENT: It's not like I have an anxiety attack every time I go to a non-kosher restaurant. I think it was...
THERAPIST: No, it sounds today was, much more so, feeling like your space was being violated. And the sound...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...being loud and feeling like you were being violated by the sound. And, just, brought up this other idea that you're, also, - it sounds like you're struggling with, maybe. Maybe it doesn't create that (ph) kind of anxiety, but I do hear the conflict and the indecision, about whether or not it feels right for you.
CLIENT: In a way, it's not (inaudible) I think I am going to take an anti-anxiety pill, because I have them with me, and I should have done this an hour ago, or something. But (pause) that's the good thing about having so many prescriptions, so that I can have a bottle stashed, pretty much, everywhere. (chuckles) Though, this will still take about 20 minutes to (inaudible) [00:31:10]
THERAPIST: Talking about it (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yes, just because I can't, really, find justifications either way. If my justification for keeping kosher is like, "Oh, well, there's these rules in the Torah," and it's not even like I necessary think the Torah was written (ph) - you know, I don't think the Torah was written by God [for saying that] (ph). There are just too many things about it that, I think, don't make sense.
And the whole - you know, a lot of biblical scholarship (ph) does make sense and, so, I'm okay with the Torah not being written by God. But, then, the justification for keeping kosher becomes a little bit less clear, especially because, I guess, it was originally instituted to keep people from associating with Non-Jews and - [00:32:09] I mean, when I first moved here, my way around it was just eating lots of ice cream, and that wasn't very practical. I mean, I did it for a year and a half - two years and didn't die.
But, in this case, I - another person is being affected by it, whereas, before, other people, like the undergrads, would eat at their dining halls, and stuff. So I - you know, and then go out for ice cream. So it wasn't like I was limiting them to only eating ice cream, or something. So it was really just me and yes -
THERAPIST: And that wouldn't really work in this case. [00:33:01]
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Which is unfortunate, because ice cream is very tasty. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Well, you can still eat it; you're just not limiting yourself to ice cream.
CLIENT: Yes, but I also did lose tons of weight when I was only eating ice cream. But it wasn't, necessarily, the healthiest thing in the world. And I don't want to enforce (ph) that upon myself again. So, yes, that's not really an option. (pause) I don't know. I don't know how to come to terms with this and -
THERAPIST: This is a soul-searching question - (inaudible) your priorities are, right now.
CLIENT: Yes, especially if I don't know where these rules, actually, came from; you know, if I think they were made by people, then why are - why is any of it important, at all? [00:34:00] It's not like I'm going to, now, go out and start breaking the Ten Commandments, or something like that, but (pause) - yes, I don't think I'd be going out and breaking any of the Ten Commandments, in fact.
THERAPIST: Very, very different issues.
CLIENT: Yes, but [its, really,] (ph) kosher and Shabbat (ph). And, Shabbat (ph), I'm also compromising a little bit, in terms of - I am still keeping Shabbat (ph) but Sydney' (ph) interpretation of Shabbat (ph) involves using computers and he's - you know, wants to watch an episode of Star Trek or something. And, then, I watch an episode of Star Trek with him, when that is something I would normally not do on Shabbat (ph). So - and there - that's a little bit less problematic, because it's his interpretation of Shabbat (ph). [00:35:01] So, even when he does become Jewish, he's planning on keeping it this way. That's okay with me because - as opposed to him breaking what his idea of Shabbat (ph) is, in order to - you know, for my benefit, or something. (pause)
THERAPIST: So that feels more subjective to you than the -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: - the laws?
CLIENT: It does. And, because - yes, because it's him giving things and not me. I mean, I guess, I'm benefitting (ph) from him. But (ph) because its - its definitely not something I would do, myself, on Shabbat (ph); yes, I don't think it's keeping Shabbat (ph). But I don't think that he's doing anything wrong by doing this.
THERAPIST: But you do feel like you're doing something wrong by making different (ph) food choices. [00:36:02]
CLIENT: Yes. Also, because it's not like he's saying, "Oh, this is how I'm keeping kosher." He keeps (ph) saying, "Oh, look, I'm not keeping kosher right now." So -
THERAPIST: [And, then,] (ph) you feel like you're not, either.
CLIENT: Yes, he's not at all keeping kosher so - but, yes, I'm not. And it's a little bit harder to justify that, because it's something I'm actively doing; I am, actively, ingesting this food. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Right, making a choice that you're uncomfortable with.
CLIENT: Yes (ph), but -
THERAPIST: And that is interesting to just - as we talk about this, that you're - that it did, kind of, bring up anxiety. Because, I think, for you, making a choice you're uncomfortable with, that feeling of guilt, is something that triggers a lot of your anxiety.
CLIENT: Yes, it's like I don't see any other option. So it's not (pause) - [00:37:08]
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you're - this - these are the options that I see for you. One is to redefine what it means for you to be kosher and to be comfortable with a new definition. Another option is to keep the definition that you have and to continue following your definition, which would mean that you would be either sharing less meals with him, or he would be limiting himself when he goes out with you, to go to certain restaurants. There's keeping the rules for yourself, as you have them, and then feel guilty about breaking them or you can keep it the same and feel guilty, you (ph) can keep it the same and not feel guilty. You could change your rules for yourself. [00:38:04] So those are the - do you see any other options? Those are the three options that I see.
CLIENT: (pause) Yes, I mean, the other option would be stop dating Sydney (ph), but I don't think it's something worth breaking up over because I really like being with him in all other respects. It's just, really, this one issue that's problematic.
THERAPIST: Yes, that seems -
CLIENT: So it's not a good option.
THERAPIST: Yes, that seems like an extreme response. Because the issue, really, is about your dietary laws for yourself and how they impact your relationship. It seems, to give up the whole relationship - I'd give up going to certain restaurants before I'd give up the whole relationship. Or give up restaurants with him; that limits the relationship a lot less than ending it.
CLIENT: Yes, that's true. It's just -
THERAPIST: It's not about what I would do but keeping it in mind of what your conflict is. [00:39:00]
CLIENT: I mean, it would be an extreme response and, I'm sure, he would rather limit the restaurants that he went to, than not be dating me. But, at the same time, then he might feel resentful having to limit the restaurants. I mean, he could eat with me less but, I think, really, that what I'm going to have to do is just - is either the option of keep the same laws and feel guilty or redefine what the laws are. And I don't know if I can, actually, make myself redefine what the laws are. So I might be stuck with doing what I'm doing, and feel guilty about it. I can't find a good justification other than I want to have a healthy relationship with my boyfriend and not limit his choices in ...
THERAPIST: That doesn't feel strong enough for you, the desire for a healthy - a healthier, or less conflictual, relationship? [00:40:01]
CLIENT: (pause) enough (ph) as a reason to let me not feel guilty for it. It's enough of a reason to do what I'm doing; it's not, necessarily, enough reason for me to do what I'm doing and not feel guilty about it.
THERAPIST: What is the purpose of - what - so, it sounds important to feel guilty, what is the importance of that? What makes it important to feel guilty?
CLIENT: Because I can't, really, stop feeling guilty about it, because it seems like I'm really breaking this thing that I, subjectively, - I'm doing something, objectively, (ph) wrong here, or, objectively, wrong for me, to claim to keep kosher and, then, not be keeping kosher at a standard that I used to keep. Even though it's still a standard that's way above like -
THERAPIST: [Of many] (ph) of your friends in your community.
CLIENT: Yes. And it's not like I'm making my house any less kosher - [00:41:04]
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: - being very respectful of your housemates.
CLIENT: Yes, and it's not like...
THERAPIST: That (ph) hasn't changed.
CLIENT: ...I'm doing anything - especially because (inaudible) here, their requirements are looser and you just, really, have to be Jewish and not openly break - you know, if you're (inaudible) Shabbat (ph), then you need to keep Shabbat (ph) while you're (inaudible) - those are the big - and, also, know what you're doing. But those are the requirements, as opposed to (inaudible), where you do have to keep Shabbat (ph) and you do have to keep kosher, in order to be (inaudible). So, yes - so it's not like me saying I keep kosher and keeping less kosher is hurting anyone.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:42:00]
CLIENT: Its, just, I still feel like - kind of, like a fraud.
THERAPIST: The guilt is hurting you.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) Just because I feel like it's a cop-out and I'm just choosing the easy way out, or something. But (pause) - and, that, if I really wanted to, I could still keep that stricter level of kosher. It would just make things harder with Sydney (ph).
THERAPIST: Do you want to?
CLIENT: (pause) (inaudible) - if Sydney (ph) were happy just going to the kosher restaurants and the vegetarian restaurants, I would totally be - you know, I think I would be happier but I know that he isn't. So (pause) it's not, actually, possible (ph).
THERAPIST: Well, it's not possible without having him feel unhappy, is what you're assuming. [00:43:00]
CLIENT: Yes, unless we went out to eat with each other less often, which requires seeing each other less often. It would - and it would, also, be a little bit weird, especially because I have been bending these rules now. To then go back to ...
THERAPIST: Does he know you feel conflicted about it?
CLIENT: He knows I feel somewhat conflicted; I don't know if he knows how conflicted I feel about it.
THERAPIST: I wonder what his response would be if he understood how big of a deal it was for you, the level of anxiety and guilt that you're feeling talking about in this session. I wonder what his response would be if he knew that.
CLIENT: I don't know because I don't want to hurt him. And I'm afraid if I told him, that would end up hurting him because it would come out as an accusation of something he's - even if I don't mean it that way, he might feel under attack. (pause) Because, you know, if I wasn't dating him, then I would keeping the stricter [level of] (ph) kosher. And, so - [00:44:06]
THERAPIST: Oh, (inaudible), yes. I mean, you - this has become an issue because of the way that it affected the relationship. You wouldn't have changed. You were perfectly content following the rules at their strictest. That was working for you.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like you were afraid that it wasn't working for the relationship.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And, so, yes, you're only looking at changing - you only brought about those changes and looked at changing what your definition is, based - because it created a stress in the relationship.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And it's not blaming him, but it is - certainly, the relationship and his desire to be able to have a wide variety of restaurants - something he really enjoys, going out, absolutely, that was the impetus for looking at this stuff, for changing your habits.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:45:01] I guess, the other solution is - well, even - I don't know. If we were both employed - I'm not sure, it still might be an issue if we were both employed, especially because then we'd both have income and be like, "Oh, yes, of course were going to go out to eat every night, or something, because we have jobs."
THERAPIST: Yes, you might - you'd have less time together during the day, most likely ...
CLIENT: Yes, really (ph). Yes.
THERAPIST: ...but there would still be lots of opportunities for dinner out.
CLIENT: Yes, and, I guess, I'd [go out] (ph), also. Because, usually, like before dating him, I would, mostly, for weeknights, have dinner at home with the housemates and eat whatever they cooked or cook one night a week. So, yes, it's like (sighs) (pause) - but I don't want to force that upon him, because he likes going out to eat. And (inaudible) if we were spending less time during the day together, we'd probably want to spend the evenings together. [00:46:01] So - as opposed to like, "Okay, I'll eat at home while you go out and do your own thing." Because we'd (ph) be working all day, or one of us would be working all day. (sighs)
THERAPIST: The timing and frequency might change when your job situation is different, but it still going to - this is not an issue that's going to disappear.
CLIENT: Yes, probably not.
THERAPIST: Well, I know it was hard to talk about it. I know you were anxious talking about it but it sounds like it's an important thing...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...that you do have a chance to, sort of, think through and figure out what really works for you and what benefits for the relationship.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) [00:47:00]
THERAPIST: No matter what you decide to do, it doesn't make you a bad person.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: It might shift your identity a bit, changing your behavior, changing your rules, but it doesn't make you a good or bad person, one way or the other.
CLIENT: It just makes me not feel (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: That's one thing that might change, depending on (ph) your level of observation or what you - how you define yourself. But I do think it's important to separate being observant from being good or bad. Sometimes that's a - sometimes those are words that creep into your judgment of yourself, or (ph) your definition of yourself.
CLIENT: It's weird (ph) that I don't judge other people that way.
THERAPIST: You're harsher on yourself.
CLIENT: Yes, I guess, just because I know that I have done this thing (ph) before and I can do this thing (ph).
THERAPIST: You can...
CLIENT: And I just -
THERAPIST: You absolutely can. It doesn't mean you have to, to be a good person.
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Trying to - trying to reserve - trying to refrain from making judgments on yourself, the same way that you do refrain from judging others. [00:48:08]
CLIENT: It's so much easier to not judge others than it is to not judge me.
THERAPIST: And I'm not sure why that's the case, but I know that it is the case for you, that's your struggle.
CLIENT: Part of it is, also, you're always told, "Don't judge other people, its wrong. Don't be judgmental." But you're never told, "Don't judge yourself, its wrong. Don't be judgmental." You're only told not to judge other people.
THERAPIST: Well, here I am, telling you not to judge you, either.
CLIENT: Yes, but I don't have 27 years of society telling me that I - that judging myself is wrong, whereas I do have that for judging other people, which isn't to say - Oh, we probably don't have time for the other thing.
THERAPIST: Oh, we'll put it on the list and I will hold onto it, to (inaudible) next time. What's the other thing?
CLIENT: I am going to be invited to - I have yet to receive the invitation to... [00:49:08]
THERAPIST: A bridal shower.
CLIENT: ...a bridal shower. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I'm sure you have some feelings about that.
CLIENT: Yes. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Okay, let's make sure that we do talk about that on Friday, because I know you well enough to know that that's going to create lots of strong reactions.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So I will make sure that we do have time, on Friday, to talk about that.
CLIENT: Okay (ph).
THERAPIST: [Okay, see you then] (ph).
END TRANSCRIPT
