Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Just one second, it's on (inaudible at 00:30) do you know who Bo Forbes is? Bo Forbes is a psychologist who practices yoga. She's a world renowned yoga instructor. And that's what the Psy.D. is, psychologist, right?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There are two kinds of doctoral degrees for psychologist. One is a PhD and one is Psy.D. [00:59]
CLIENT: Yeah. She also had some other degree which I didn't...it started with an, "M." So she must have a masters in something or - I don't know. But she has...she does therapy sessions in conjunction with yoga. And she's doing a workshop down in Rhode Island -
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: - on April 1<sup>st</sup> focusing on anxiety and depression. And apparently she has a 20 week course that she does.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And, of course, Jess is on Bo Forbes's mailing list and saw this. And early registration is $75, regular registration is $95, and it's $105 at the door. It's from 12:30 to 4:00. And I haven't been doing any yoga. And I really didn't want to do it, but - I don't know why. It's not like Jess - I didn't push back at all. But it's not like Jess said, "You have to do this." But she really pushed hard for me every day. It's like, "Have you signed up? Have you signed up?"
So I'm going to be doing this (chuckles) yoga thing this Sunday. And the thing is, I haven't been doing any yoga. And it's not like it - a lot of it is mindfulness stuff. And it's more restorative poses which is child's pose, and not really heavy duty yoga. Then I had to go out and buy yoga mats, so there's $20 right there because Jess doesn't know where my mat is. And - I don't know. I just - I feel like - I don't know. It's like I feel forced into it. But I'm going to do it. I'm a little nervous just because I haven't done any yoga. I feel like I should do some yoga this week, but I don't have the DVD which I'm going try and get today from Jess. And - [03:23]
THERAPIST: You'll also probably find stuff on YouTube.
CLIENT: Yeah. But there's one DVD that I really like.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I kind of - I just checked my e-mail this morning. And my hearing for my summary judgment motion, the other lawyer wants to continue. And there was a conflict with the visitor day of my E&G; chapter where I had to leave early.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And now I'm going to [sent to the motion] (ph). My clients are going to be upset as being pushed off, but fuck them. But it kind of - I feel a little happier because of that. Been feeling crappy and a lot of anxiety lately, but that has kind of put me in a better mood. [04:31]
THERAPIST: [Sort of passing] (ph) a conflict?
CLIENT: Yeah, sort of a relief. And it also just pushes back having to -
THERAPIST: Having to deal with it?
CLIENT: - having to deal with it. Because that's going to be kind of a crazy week for me because I'm doing an estate planning seminar at the Bank the day before. And I've got to...I've got to work, you know, practice both of those. The seminar more is just writing down what I'm going to talk about. I can kind of shoot from the hip on that. The summary judgment motion though, I need to take a little more seriously and prepare. But the -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [05:28]
CLIENT: It was like...it was like in law school, I can only focus on the - I'm like Bill Belichick. I can only focus on the exam in front of me. So I may have had an exam on Thursday and then an exam on Friday. I couldn't focus on the Friday exam until -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: - I took the Thursday exam. And that's actually one of the reasons I got my lowest grade in school was based on, sort of, [close in time, most criminal law.] (ph) And my professor was a former U.S. Attorney, so she kind of had a prosecutor bent. I kind of had a defense attorney bent. And she didn't like my - it's the only time I've ever gone to a professor and say, "Why did I get this grade?" I felt - I was like, "Listen, I get...I get A's and high B's in all my classes and here's this anomaly." She didn't change my grade.
So I would have - I kind of have the feeling that I probably wouldn't be able to prepare the summary judgment motion until I did the estate planning thing.
THERAPIST: I see. [06:57]
CLIENT: I don't know why. I don't know if it's - I don't...I don't why I'm like that, but that's just mentally probably some -
THERAPIST: (Sneezes).
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Thanks.
CLIENT: You really should do that into your elbow.
THERAPIST: Thanks.
CLIENT: Young kids.
THERAPIST: (Blows nose).
CLIENT: Remind me not to shake your hand.
THERAPIST: True. (blows nose)
CLIENT: You put that in the transcript, a parenthetical, "Doctor blows nose"?
THERAPIST: I don't know.
CLIENT: Well, it's going to be in there now I guess.
THERAPIST: I guess so.
CLIENT: But I've had a couple of deals pop up.
THERAPIST: Oh, good. [08:18]
CLIENT: My E&G; mortgage guy have given me a referral, just a slip, for - the last name was HousPhil and then I got an order for a Gimenez. So maybe there's another order coming down the line.
I'm closing today which I wanted to get up early and get dressed before, but I just couldn't get out of bed. I even went to bed early, I just couldn't. I had some sort of weird dream, and I woke up from it. And then the alarm went off, and I just couldn't believe that the alarm went off.
THERAPIST: Do you remember it?
CLIENT: No. No. (Pause) But I remember wake - I woke up from the dream -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [09:21]
CLIENT: - before the alarm went off, so it's not like the alarm woke me up.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And for some reason it just felt like not 6 o'clock, but some other time. But I snoozed until 6:30. Dog is freezing in the car, poor dog. We met on Friday.
THERAPIST: Hm? (sp?)
CLIENT: Did I tell you about the...what the vet wants to do?
THERAPIST: Last week, yeah, Friday. [10:00]
CLIENT: How he didn't - so we met with the vet. And there was an outstanding bill...it's $400 and there was an outstanding bill of $100, so it's $500.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And the vet said to, Number 1; give him a lot of exercise. Which in the morning, I don't know how I'm going to...maybe I can work something out with my landlord to get some time in the back yard without them letting their dogs out or kind of coordinating that.
And he said to get an indestructible cage to put him in. Which I've found heavy duty, "indestructible cages," on the Internet; cheapest one was like $300. And then to put him on an anti-anxiety medication. Which I realized, I didn't have his flea and tick medication. And it's like a...it's more than one dose, a monthly dose. So there's another $150. So all in all, I'm spending like $650. And then basically a $1,000 on -
THERAPIST: Right. [11:21]
CLIENT: - the fucking dog. I mean, I just - and I paid for Jess's rent this month. And I'm essentially just not paying my rent this month, and hoping that I get some business to fill in to catch up. But at this point, I don't know if that's going be the case. So I'm back in...in the hole again.
And I'm going to win some money from my March Madness pool, but I don't know how much that's going to be, maybe $50, maybe $100. (Chuckles) Oh, shit, the bank has been calling me and I haven't called them back yet. They called me at 8:30 on a Friday. You know, it's like 8:30 p.m. And I feel like I was actually doing something when they called. I don't - I couldn't have been doing something with the - oh, Ian was over.
THERAPIST: Right. [12:41]
CLIENT: He was awake, we were watching TV. We might have been watching basketball. I don't know. (Pause) Took him to the Museum on Sunday. Which went well most the time accept he saw a kid with a sticker on and wanted to get a sticker. And it's like, I don't see any other kids with stickers, museum design stickers on.
THERAPIST: Sure. [13:21].
CLIENT: So maybe it was some special group or something.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I just didn't want to, I don't know why, one of these things once again, I just didn't want to ask someone who worked there where these stickers were. I got kind of a little frustrated and mad at him when he kept pressing. But we went to the exhibit and he surprised me when he knows more than I do about...he knew the solar system and the -
THERAPIST: I don't know.
CLIENT: - android belt...asteroid belt. So they're learning some stuff at school.
THERAPIST: I guess so. [14:04]
CLIENT: But Jess got pissed at me. And once again, she does this in front of him and totally emasculates - but I didn't...I didn't give him lunch while we were -
THERAPIST: On Sunday?
CLIENT: On Sunday. It didn't even cross my mind. Because I - I'm not eating lunches, I'm just not. I have...sometimes I'm eating lunches, but if I do they're late in the day. And yesterday, I had lunch around 3 o'clock or something. You know just - I got a - after the planetarium, I got a coffee and we split a cookie, a sugar cookie. So that was his lunch. And, of course, she's like, "What have you eaten?" And he's like, "I had a sugar cookie." And so she gets mad at me. And in front of him, you know, starts berating me about not getting him lunch. And I was just like, uh-huhing, (sp?) it slipped my mind or whatever. And then she started in on me again. "The kid has got to go, enough. I got it."
THERAPIST: Yeah. [15:33]
CLIENT: And I just kind of went in the other room and sulked. And they were...she was making him food. And at first he was like...he's like - they're making turkey burgers, sliders. And he's like, "Do you want any?" He's like, "It's time to eat. It's time to eat." And I go, "I'm not really that hungry." Which was partially true, but then the more I thought about it, I got hungry. So I ended up eating, but I was still pretty upset. Because if I had done that to her -
THERAPIST: Right. [16:08]
CLIENT: - I mean, I never pushed back on any time she's yelled at him or gotten excessively upset. And there's been plenty of times. And I'm constantly reminded of why I can't tolerate her sometimes. And it's usually one of the - it's the yoga thing just, "You got to do the yoga thing, got to do the yoga thing."
And because she's been on me for awhile about the medications, that the medications are screwing me up and that they're not good for me. And I've got to do more yoga. And - I don't know. But handball starts next week on Monday, I'm completely out of shape. But I've lost a lot of weight, probably lost about 15, 20 pounds -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - over the winter. And - [17:17]
THERAPIST: It's not the easiest time to lose weight.
CLIENT: No. But it's just I've been broke and haven't been eating. (Chuckles) And what I have been eating I've been trying to eat healthy.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I did have - I did have McDonald's the other...last week. I picked that Thursday night or maybe Thursday or Friday. It was probably on Thursday I had McDonald's. I was just stressed out. And there was another night before - or maybe it was Wednesday I had McDonald's. And then I got a Subway sub on Thursday because I hadn't...I didn't have any food in the house, and I didn't feel like going shopping.
But I'm back to my rabbit food diet. And I had a ham sandwich for lunch and then...with lettuce and tomato. And then had a salad and brussel sprouts for dinner. And then I did - I was still hungry, and I had a piece of bread with peanut butter on it. But when you combine all that stuff together it's still not a lot of calories. Oh, and I did have a thing of cereal. Which still, even though with the cereal it's still not a lot of calories. I mean, the cereal was probably a couple hundred. Just hungry. And it's like I'm not hungry during the day, and then because I don't eat during the day or really hungry at night. Or I'm just...maybe I'm anxious sitting around the house -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [19:12]
CLIENT: - with nothing to do, but think about all my problems. So I think I'm going to barely have - I don't know. The closing today, they didn't want me taking money out of the proceeds. So Lord knows when they're going to pay me. I don't know if they're going to cut a check to me at the table or - I went and bought a [heavier death] (ph) certificate which I forgot to get. And so that was $10. And I've already sent them an invoice, so I'm like, "I'm just going to eat the $10." I mean, what's another $10 in the large bucket of the big hole I'm in.
But it sucks, the one...the deal that the realtor sent me, it's a relocation deal where someone is relocating their companies moving them across the country. And so the...what happens is, is the relo buys the property -
THERAPIST: Right. [20:29]
CLIENT: - takes title of the property, and then the seller is actually the relo, not the people who own the house.
THERAPIST: If the company - you mean by relo, you mean the company?
CLIENT: Right. And they want their attorney to kind of control the closing and the whole process. But my guy is using his own bank, so I'm going to do all the bank work. But they're going to issue the...according the BNS, they're going to issue...they're going to issue the title insurance which would...is about $750 that I won't be making.
THERAPIST: I see. I'm sorry. (Blows nose)
CLIENT: So I've got to call and figure out how to quote...how they want to coordinate that because my lender is going to want a title commitment, they're going to want a closing protection letter. There's all these things they're going to want from me which I'm not going to issue if I'm not issuing the title insurance.
THERAPIST: I see. [21:34]
CLIENT: So it's like I got to call them -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - and get it from them. And do I order the lien certificate, do I order the survey or do they? But I'm still going to get my fee for representing the bank and then doing the buyer rep work. So I'll make a $1,000 or so, but at the end of May. But it's...it still just kind of sucks.
THERAPIST: Sure. [22:04]
CLIENT: And I don't understand. It's like - it's - local practice is the buyer's attorney does all that work. And it just -
THERAPIST: Meaning you ended (ph) a relo?
CLIENT: Yeah. I've done relos before.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I've never had this come up. And there's one that, sort of an exception in Worchester and the towns that touch Worchester, the seller does the title work. So they have these abstract companies that they're a little...they're more established, and so they're specific companies. And they pay for the title work, but the buyer still issues the title insurance. And - I don't know. It's just...it's awkward, and I'll figure it out. But the part that bothers me the most is it's cutting into how much I make on closing.
THERAPIST: Right. [23:17]
CLIENT: And I don't know if they're going to try and charge my client for anything, but he's just paying for the title insurance. And I still got to do a title exam on my end because I have to certify title -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: - under the -
THERAPIST: So you don't actually have much less work to do?
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I'm required under the statue, consumer protection statue, to certify title. And I'm not going to rely on their title exam, who knows? I'm sure it's a reputable whatever, but I do these things myself. And so I still have to do title myself.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [24:11]
CLIENT: And - I don't know. It just seems like - I don't know. I have this, like, not that I can't get out of my own way, but it's just like things happen for me. But they just - for every good thing that happens, two bad things happen. It's like I just - I can't have something good happen and then be, "Yay, something good has happened." So I'm trying not to get too excited about this new title order because who knows when it's going to close. I have - and - I don't know. It just -
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you feel very kind of passive and done to in all of this. Like you're just sort of sitting around waiting for stuff to happen or getting pushed around in this way or that way by this one or that one.
CLIENT: Yeah. And we had moved our meeting last week because of that networking event at 8 a.m. in Pembroke.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I didn't go. The alarm went off and I just - I don't know. I just - I was up late watching basketball. I just couldn't get out of bed and -
THERAPIST: I see. [25:49]
CLIENT: - motivate myself really for a networking event. I've got another event tomorrow which is not 8 o'clock, it's at 9 o'clock. Which is - E&G; is kind of putting on and I've got...just got to get up and go. And just all these events are morning of the type events. And I just - I've got to do more networking.
I don't know if I told you, the guy who I do title work for, basically taught him how to do real estate, want...offered to have me join his chapter as the estate planner.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I told that to Jess.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 26:41)?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just mentioned that to Jess because I don't think she knew how bad E&G; was going to run.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And said E&G; is not going well. And because I tell her I'm like...I'm really anxious. I keep making the mistake of telling her my problems. But other than you, I really have no one to tell my problems to. And I'm like, "Yeah, Phil offered or suggested I join his group as the estate planner." She jumped all over this. She was like, "That's a great idea, you really should do that."
It's just - and it's just everybody in my, you know, my dad, Jess, everybody wants me to be doing something else. And it's like, I'm not in the position to start from scratch on anything. At least I have some sort of business for real estate where people recognize me as a real estate attorney. I've had trouble getting people to recognize me as an estate planner. And I mean it would be a year for people to trust me enough in that chapter -
THERAPIST: I see. [27:58]
CLIENT: - to send me estate planning work. I mean it just - it just doesn't happen overnight. And that would lose my real estate contacts. It just - I don't know.
THERAPIST: Do you have a - the question is that the mortgage guy in your current chapter is young, but he's sort of trying to send you stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think his boss is sending...like this Gimenez is his boss's loan. And I'm just - that's...to me that's like worst case scenario. That's when all goes to hell.
THERAPIST: I see. [28:46]
CLIENT: And I'm not so sure. I think there's enough people in my chapter that care that we may go...be going through some tough times, but ultimately we'll pull through. And two of the people who really care are the mortgage guy and the real estate broker. So it's like -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: The real estate broker uses her own mortgage guy, and...so she's going to be introducing me to him. So who knows? I may get extra business out of that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [29:26]
CLIENT: But it's - I feel like I'm just sitting around waiting, you know, waiting for the other shoe to drop or something good to happen. I mean to some degree I'm trying to - should have gone to that thing on Friday. That was kind of a mistake, but that's my problem is motivating myself -
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 30:10) yeah.
CLIENT: - to do these things. And I've given up on the idea of a rotary because...well, I think I would get exposure to people in the Concord rotary. The people I've talked to just had...don't get any business out of rotary. It's strictly -
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: - service quotes. And if I did do a rotary, I probably should do it in Plymouth or Andover. Because these things are more community oriented and that I probably would get more benefit doing that. I don't know anybody in the Andover or the Plymouth rotary so. Plymouth rotary doesn't seem to be that big. They're big chapters, 75, 80, and there's smaller chapters, like 40. You just going through the Plymouth, it seems a little smaller.
But I've got this presentation at the Bank. Who knows who's going to show up? I've done these...done this presentation before and got no business out of it. And I'm on this group on LinkedIn and they're at all different parts of the country, but there's attorneys who've really got their marketing machine going. But they've got staffs and they've got money. And they're doing seminars sometimes two a day.
THERAPIST: Wow. [32:10]
CLIENT: And I've tried doing...working with people that do first-time home buying seminar. I did a seminar with the Association of Realtors. Accept for like two people, everyone that showed up was realtors.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So it's like, I just - I don't know what the benefit is. There are all these groups, rotary and realtors groups, they're all...have these speakers. So I probably should join the Association of Realtors, there's an affiliate. But I just don't have money to be throwing around to give them a couple hundred dollars to spend on these things.
THERAPIST: (Coughs).
CLIENT: You going to make it?
THERAPIST: I don't know. Allergies (inaudible at 33:14) continuing to get worse.
CLIENT: Take a Claritin?
THERAPIST: I took some stuff, yeah.
CLIENT: So - I don't know. It's just frustrating.
THERAPIST: Sure. Plus it's extremely hard to keep...let me put it another way. How are you able to persevere with this stuff? I mean it's tough when some things pan out, a lot of things don't.
CLIENT: I'm just not in the mood to throw everything up against the wall and see what sticks. And we didn't have the money, but I think it was a big mistake not doing Christmas cards. I mean, I've got a huge - I put a...I put all my buyers, all attorneys, and the realtors, I try to put them all in my outlook, you know, my contacts. So I've got a huge database of people to send cards to. I did it two years ago and I got two...couple closings out of it. So it was totally worth while, but - I don't know. Just -
THERAPIST: Can you find any other excuse to send everybody cards?
CLIENT: Yeah. There's probably is something, but right now I don't have the couple hundred dollars.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. [35:12]
CLIENT: It's just like, you know, Jess would freak.
THERAPIST: Be a real bootstrap in the process.
CLIENT: Yeah, Jess would freak out. We still haven't done her pages on the website which, you know I'm like, that money is not going to me. So - I don't know. Just been way behind on my payments on the website. I got to pay my rent coming up at the office. I just...I don't get a chance to get ahead.
I just - I'm doing so few closings, even less than - I haven't done the full estate plan in a month. And I've done little...I did health care proxies for a woman, you know, $150. And I got a few people who've paid me, but haven't gotten their act together. And I've got that one collection case where I've kind of figured out a way to get around not giving the lender notice. And so I'm going to go forward and make a little bit of money on it. But four or five closings should be my minimum a month.
And I read Ray on Facebook. He's down there golfing, doing well, having a good time. And I can't begrudge him. He's in his 60's and sick of the...you know it's not easy being a loan officer.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: They're always changing the rules, and do a lot of work for deals that don't pan out. But I was making money with him.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [37:45]
CLIENT: And Harry because he's younger and because E&G; is smaller -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - and he's in the Concord rotary, but he's got another attorney who sends him business. So - I don't know. It's just a...just a constant source of anxiety and frustration.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And Mondays are just horrible for me. It's like I wake up and just a knot in my stomach all day long. And any opportunity to get out of the office I take which (inaudible at 38:35).
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I should have printed out everything and gotten ready for today's closing, but I hadn't even heard that it was supposed to be scheduled for today.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I was at Target buying a yoga mat when, you know, at like 4:30 when the thing got scheduled.
THERAPIST: Okay. We're going to have to stop.
CLIENT: So it's still the normal time on Friday?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm just saying the same stuff over and over again anyways. (inaudible at
END TRANSCRIPT
