TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Due to technical issues, session #12 was not recorded.  Below is the therapist's synopsis of the session:
Synopsis of Session 12:
The patient presents in a state of angst, higher anxiety, and somewhat confused about the source of the anxiety.  The anxiety slowly starts to turn to a kind of paranoid rage that bubbles up in and amongst different stories he tells.  For example, he is feeling a little worried/uncertain/paranoid after a meeting with his boss at work.  Worries are vague and analyst inquires trying to help him find specificity to his fears.  He is able to say that the job itself feels of uncertain structure, timeline, aim.  He wonders sometimes if it is too good to be true and gets a little anxious it's not going to last, but defensively reassures himself that he just must not be used to things going his way ('I have a good job, why do I always have to be looking for the rug to get pulled out from under me?').  Still, he associates to angst/anger about finding himself broke again.  'How can it be that I can have worked so hard and be 40 and yet still not have a penny to my name by the end of the month?'  Describes penny-pinching and a kind of narcissistic rage/humiliation about feeling he has to beg and grovel and steal just to buy a cup of coffee.  Some refusal of accepting reality around financial limitations as we discuss concretely where his money actually goes each month (he is still puzzled where it all goes).  Some return to good reality testing around this as it is analyzed.  Also examine tendency to externalize his anxiety/shame about his choices and to interpret that the world is out to get him and doing this "to him" (e.g., the bank not issuing a loan to him due to his very poor credit score he feels is a singling out of himself for persecution).  Discusses also rage and disappointment after telling a woman he's been seeing that he was broke and then finding she didn't offer to pay their whole dinner check that night (she split it).  Much moralistic judgment of her as "low" and not someone he wants to affiliate himself with if she can't read between the lines and take care of him.  Finally, ends session wondering why he has been so stuck in his writing, unable to just jot down a paragraph a day.  Wondered even about the possibility of using the analysis as a structure to force himself to write and asked directly if he could share some of his writing in the sessions (i.e., would that force him to do it).  Analyst responds, saying that of course he could bring in his writing, but that also, their task together is to understand what the sharing means to him.
CLIENT: So, yeah. So I was thinking yesterday after I left, it was kind of cool. Like it feels good that things are a little more level. Like even though I was feeling the way I was feeling, like now I feel like sometimes I come in here and I'm like other—- well, I've always felt better usually after I leave here. But it's always been a little more of like extremes, you know what I mean?
[00:01:00]
But it was kind of cool. Yesterday was like, alright, you know, I don't feel great but it's okay. Like I don't—- like I wasn't really dwelling on it. I wasn't—- you know. So that's good. And today I did actually write a little bit. I got up early first of all. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was at Starsucks at like 9. I wrote like a paragraph, so it was good. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: It was interesting yesterday as we were talking about—- it seemed like you were wanting to reassure me as we started to talk about how you felt, that you know this won't last, you know you feel different, you know that this will be gone in a few days or something. It's so clear how different it is, and why do you think I don't know that?
[00:01:59]
CLIENT: No. No, I think I say those things because it just makes me feel good to just verbalize. It's like an anxiety attack. Now I know these things are—- you've got to just ride it out, you know what I mean? So it's like now I'm just—- I mean, it seems like a no-brainer to do that but now it's like working. You know, now when I feel this way I'm like, alright. 
For example, for the last two or three days my tummy has been feeling shitty and I know this happens sometimes, you know. I'm sure it's just because I've been feeling stressed and anxious and who knows. I'm not drinking enough water, whatever the fuck it is. But it just—- yeah, just got to ride it out. Like I don't—- somehow I'm not as fixated on things, or they don't take me to extreme places as much. Or even if they do, I let them just be just passing thoughts, you know, that have nothing to do with anything. They're just—- so yeah. But yeah, so whenever—- because I don't just say that to you. I say that to myself.
[00:02:58]
THERAPIST: You're saying it for your own benefit.
CLIENT: Yeah, it just helps me to just be like, alright.
THERAPIST: It used to be, many years ago, you'd get triggered—- the feelings that came up yesterday, the feelings around money for example, is one example of things that get triggered, and it would stay there for weeks even.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: It could.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: It's not only not staying for weeks, it's sometimes not even staying in the same place for an hour now.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
THERAPIST: But I don't think that means that it's just something to just sort of get through either. Like this—- 
CLIENT: Oh, no.
THERAPIST: —- is a place where we get to, even if we know it's going to change and you have perspective on it—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: —- we actually get to know it.
CLIENT: Now you can actually think about it.
THERAPIST: We get to think about it more—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No, I agree.
THERAPIST: —- when it happens. Because I don't think it's not going to be that it's not going to happen. You're going to get triggered.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And now we want to know okay, so what happened? What are the details? Where did your mind go in that?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And we just get to know it more.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because that's the way getting really into it will help it continue to happen less and less and less.
[00:04:01]
CLIENT: Right. No, yeah, I totally agree. Yeah, no, I definitely don't mean it like a dismissive thing. No, not at all. I mean that's why I've said a number of times like once in a while how profoundly fucked up I am—- and I don't mean that in some—- I'm not putting myself down. I just mean—- 
THERAPIST: No, right.
CLIENT: We all have issues, and mine are mine, you know. So, yeah, definitely I'm not like—- 
THERAPIST: And see, I see your capacity to say that as progress.
CLIENT: Yeah. I agree.
THERAPIST: It feels, I think, sometimes like "If I say that out loud, then it makes me more fucked up. It makes that more real." But actually, I think that makes it—- 
CLIENT: I don't feel that way.
THERAPIST: It doesn't feel that way? Okay.
CLIENT: Not at all, no, no. I feel like I'm—- you know, I mean, I'm a writer, right? So you're taking ownership of something when you can articulate it.
THERAPIST: Definitely.
CLIENT: Yeah, so—- 
THERAPIST: It always looks like—- 
CLIENT: —- I don't have a problem with that.
THERAPIST: —- when you say something like that though, then you quickly will say "But it's not that bad. I know how much has changed."
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean that's just—- 
THERAPIST: (inaudible) 
[00:05:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I have that. It's just a—- I mean, I do that will almost everything anyway. I mean, even things that don't have to do with me.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: You know what I mean? Like I try to, you know, but yeah, I'm not trying to dismiss anything or, you know.
THERAPIST: Or you might. That might be something for us to get to know about what your mind does. You're saying you do that in other places. What's that about?
CLIENT: Sure. Yeah, yeah. I mean I'm sure at some level it's a comforting thing, you know. Who knows. Because sometimes I want to get more into it than other things. Who knows. I don't know. (pause) When I was writing—- I mean, I didn't really write much. It was barely a paragraph. It just all comes back to what I've said about when I look back on things, all I see is kind of like beige.
[00:06:03]
So I was kind of writing about that, like how it just—- (pause) Like I used the metaphor—- it's like a very thin linen beige cloth. I was writing how like, you know, like my eyelashes were brushing against it. I'm trying to see things, but it's—- it's just hard. I don't know how to articulate yet, you know, what my life has been. So, I don't know. But it's weird. In just those few sentences, I made a connection.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah, which was that—- I think I'd made this connection before, but I've had this recurring image of how maybe like in '79, '80 or something—- you know it gets really hot in North Carolina, and I remember being in our apartment and I was just laying on the carpet. 
[00:07:06]
I was playing or I was laying, I don't know, and the carpet was beige. It was beige, brown and white, I think, or something. It was one of those Persian kind of carpets, you know. So I wonder if that's where that color or that, you know—- and I think I was just laying there, just because it was cool. Soft and cool or something. I don't know. I don't know what I was doing. Because that was the example I used. Right after I wrote that I was like, here's an example, you know. It was like oh yeah, I guess I keep coming back to this example and that was beige.
THERAPIST: That's so interesting.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. (pause) It's weird, yeah. 
THERAPIST: And that's something you remember doing—- 
CLIENT: I just remember there was this one moment that I was just kind of—- I just remember the carpet was nice and cool, you know? I don't know if I was on my stomach playing with toys, or I don't know what I was doing.
[00:08:03]
THERAPIST: What kind of carpet? Do you remember?
CLIENT: Like a Persian—- I don't know if it was a valuable one, but, you know, kind of like a Persian design.
THERAPIST: Not thick?
CLIENT: I don't think it was very thick, no, no. (pause) Yeah, I specifically remember the colors were like beige, brown, white, something like that. Maybe some blue or something, but definitely the beige. I remember kind of like what you're wearing. Is that beige? That's beige, right?
THERAPIST: Yeah, this is closest.
CLIENT: Right, right. (pause) So yeah, I don't know. (pause) It's like when I think back on just—- I think I wrote two—- like I remember—- it's not that I don't remember concrete memories or whatever.
[00:09:10]
Like I'll be like "Oh yeah, I remember in 1990, buh buh buh, I was sitting at a red in LA, you know? But there's a disconnect between remembering the fact that yes, I guess that happened, but there's a disconnect, but it happened, but like that was me? Like I can't seem to reach back and connect the fact that yes, that was the same person I am right now, you know? That's where it's really weird. Is that normal?
THERAPIST: It's unusual, I think.
CLIENT: It is, right? That's just kind of freaking me out a little bit. Like don't people look back on—- even if it was 15 or 20 years ago and there's a clear like "that was me." Right? Yeah, that kind of freaks me out, you know?
[00:10:03]
Like the other day I was thinking of the specific—- like the last apartment I stayed in, in LA and just what was that? It was like a studio apartment. It was kind of gross. I couldn't afford the rent towards the end. I just threw shit out in garbage bags. I kind of like bailed. I kind of like left without—- but then I remember they saw me and I think they scolded me. I don't know what the—- just weird.
THERAPIST: "They" the owner or landlord?
CLIENT: Like property manager, owners, yeah. I was like "I can't pay, I'm sorry" or something. I don't know what happened. I was just fucking—- I was, what, like 24, you know? When I look back I'm like, what did I do in that apartment? I didn't have a television, you know what I mean? How did I spend my time? I guess I read.
[00:11:05]
I'm just at a complete loss for what I did. There was no Internet. I didn't sit there on Netflix. It's baffling to me. Like I don't understand how I survived or what ran through my mind or how I—- (pause) I don't know. Just weird, weird memories that are totally ambiguous, you know?
THERAPIST: That's how it feels when you're talking about the beige carpet and just remembering laying on it. It sort of feels like you can see it, like you're telling me what you see in a movie over here.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I mean.
THERAPIST: And it doesn't feel like it's embodied with you as a memory.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But so, what is that? Is that something when people feel that way? Is it because of traumatic things?
[00:12:01]
THERAPIST: It can be different things, yeah. The most obvious one is trauma where there's a kind of dissociation between self-states happening, so you can describe a memory without it being emotionally available, connecting to you at all.
CLIENT: That's fucked up. 
THERAPIST: But there can be other reasons too, you know? There could be—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, but why would the childhood—- does that mean something traumatic happened then? Or something traumatic could happen later, so then you just block out everything about your whole—- you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Not usually, no.
CLIENT: So that means even at that age, there was something—- 
THERAPIST: There was something already going on, I would say.
CLIENT: Wow.
THERAPIST: I don't think it necessarily means it has to be some over—- 
CLIENT: Major—- right, right, right.
THERAPIST: —- sexual trauma or something.
CLIENT: Right, right, right. Or tragedy or whatever. Yeah, it could just be feeling alone and lonely or somehow neglected in a way.
[00:12:56]
THERAPIST: Yes. But at least parts of your mind were not being attended to. I mean, this is another example of a kind of psychic trauma, so that your own memory starts to split up in pieces and if there isn't someone there holding you together and knowing all of you—- you know, I don't know this. We still have to kind of find out to understand what that is. There's already you sort of—- 
CLIENT: I wonder how it's all—- 
THERAPIST: —- lost to other parts of yourself.
CLIENT: —- connected to the fact that like I couldn't sleep alone for many years, you know. I wonder what that's all about? Like up until 12, like someone had to fall asleep or make sure that I was, you know—- to the point where I would be like—- let's say this is the bedroom and I would be sleeping. They'd all be right out there. I could hear them, you know? And yet I don't remember what the fear—- like scared of something, to the point where I'd literally be like—- I don't remember crying per se, but I'd kind of like walk out and just kind of like—- and one of them, my aunt or my mom or somebody, would kind of—- 
[00:14:09]
THERAPIST: They walked you back in.
CLIENT: Yeah, they'd kind of sit next to me or lie next to me until I fell asleep. And the weird thing about that was, as soon as we moved to this house, I remember my dad—- you know, he worked in a factory with all kinds of weird hours. But I remember like at first, like we just slept on the floor. We had just moved in, you know. We were still getting organized. On a different Persian carpet. And I remember suddenly I just didn't care. I didn't care that it was dark. I don't know what that was, but suddenly it just went away. And now, I get annoyed if there's a light on, you know. I'd like nothing better than to be left alone and, you know.
THERAPIST: So you remember it specifically going away after you moved into this place?
CLIENT: I think so. I just remember very specifically, suddenly being like "Oh." I think I never thought of it. I was like "Oh. I don't really care if I go to sleep." Or at least I remember thinking "Oh, I'm not scared. It's dark and—-" whatever.
[00:15:11]
THERAPIST: It occurred to you that there had been a theme.
CLIENT: I think so. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Because it was so drastic, you know. I mean to the point where I would do things like I'd want to go with my cousin back to Portsmouth to stay with them a little bit, and on the road I'd start crying because I realized I couldn't do it. Because I knew if I went there, I'd not be able to, you know.
THERAPIST: That it was almost a kind of phobia or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, oh yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think you're connecting it—- I don't think, and it sounds like you don't quite know how it's connected yet—- but something may be related to already your mind being not totally whole, and then what happens with that mind at night. 
[00:16:06]
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah.
THERAPIST: [Night is a scary time]. 
CLIENT: The thing I do remember clearly is—- I mean, that's part of the artistics of it. My imagination is so vivid. So I always had—- I told you that story about—- you know that movie Nosferatu?
THERAPIST: Mmmm-hmmm.
CLIENT: Did I tell you that story?
THERAPIST: I think so. Say it again. It was a long time ago.
CLIENT: Right. When I was little, that was my biggest thing. I had never seen Nosferatu, I had no idea what Nosferatu was, but I had this image of a dude like that dude. Like the long fingers and the weird—- I mean, even now when I see that movie, it blows my mind. I mean, subconsciously did I see it on TV? I don't—- I remember seeing some Dracula stuff, and Dracula really scared me. But then I took Dracula and I turned him into—- he wasn't just a dude in a tuxedo or a cape or whatever. So that I remember very—- that used to scare the shit out of me. Like I would just lay there and think this long-fingered whatever creep was going to—- really scary.
[00:17:08]
THERAPIST: And do what? Like a closet, under the bed or—- 
CLIENT: Like it was all detail. Like I would think of him slowly coming, you know, like in a movie I guess. Where you'd just suddenly see him just appear, you know? Or, yeah, if the closet was kind of open, I'd imagine that he's just looking at me. Just scary.
THERAPIST: It's terrifying.
CLIENT: Yeah, super terrifying. I don't know why it was so vivid and so that—- I mean, that's more adult imagination or something, I don't know. It was very specific and very—- 
THERAPIST: Did you watch scary movies?
CLIENT: No. I didn't like scary. When I think back then, things were looser. I remember on Channel 56 they'd show boobs sometimes. I don't know if you remember that. But I feel like things were looser back then.
[00:18:06]
So I do remember some scary movies. Like I'll never forget there were two. There was one where some woman—- this scared the shit out of me too—- something about, it was a cheesy thing. Something about there's a doll, like a voodoo doll that comes to life and chases this woman around with a knife in her apartment or something. And at some point, she traps it in the oven or something like that. 
But the last scene, I don't know what happens to her. Somehow she's infected or whatever the fuck happens. And in the last scene she's talking to her boyfriend. He's going to come over. She hangs up and then she takes a big fucking knife and she kind of squats down in her bathroom. I mean, you can't see—- it's not nudity, but she squats down and when she smiles, she has the nasty teeth of that doll suddenly, and she just starts stamping the knife on the carpet. This is like—- I think I saw this in the afternoon sometime.
[00:19:08]
Like they would show shit like this back then. It's like that scared the shit out of me. Not to the point that when I saw it, I cried, but at night that became, you know—- 
THERAPIST: Of course.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's really scary.
THERAPIST: Your brain was overwhelmed with fear.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Especially when—- 
THERAPIST: You couldn't process that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Especially when you come home and you're a latch-key kid.
THERAPIST: So you think you watched this by yourself too.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, my mom—- they would never let me. Yeah, they wouldn't have let me watch something like that. But that's what I'm saying. It could've been, maybe it was after school and I'm just home alone. I mean, I don't know. Or it was just a weekend and I'm just watching TV. Who the hell knows. 
There was that and there was some other one, some vampire thing again. But in this one, the kid is laying in his bed at night—- or the adult, I don't remember who it is. But then they look out their window and there's like a vampire kind of hovering, but not like a cheesy—- like a scary fucking looking vampire. And I remember that scared me. It was like fuck, they can just hover.
[00:20:11]
THERAPIST: Terrifying. Terrifying.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Both of these.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So there were a few things like that.
THERAPIST: And you remember them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: These are vivid memories, sort of flashbulb memories you're describing. You're point-by-point going through that movie.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: That's how much of an impact it made.
CLIENT: Yeah. They were really scary. But I mean, can those kind of things be part of like a trauma or something? To the point where like you have these dissociation kinds of things?
THERAPIST: Well, it's complicated because there embedded in the story of those things is that you're also home alone.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: No one is supervising that you're being over-exposed to something that's too much for your mind at that age.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
[00:21:03]
THERAPIST: Where's the adult? So there's a trauma even in that absence of someone saying "Brian, you're not allowed to watch this."
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: And knowing this is too much for a brain of that age. Maybe when you're older. And protecting you. There's no protection.
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah. (pause) But, yeah. (pause) Or even—- we've never even talked about—- obviously it's a major—- one thing that is a trauma is, you know, in '81, you know, 10 years before my dad died, so I was nine, 10. You know, I'm just out playing in the parking lot. We played Nerf football, the kids in the building or whatever. And to have my dad's friend show up and be like "We have to go to the hospital. You're dad is in the hospital."
[00:22:06]
My parents were upstairs like five minutes—- (chuckles) I was just left there upstairs. And I wouldn't go with him. I got freaked out because what is he talking about? My parents were just up—- you know. That definitely had to be, you know. And then I go to the hospital, he's in the mask, you know.
THERAPIST: The context was you had been upstairs with both of your parents—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, I went down to play.
THERAPIST: —- a few minutes before you went to play.
CLIENT: I do know that he wasn't feeling well. I had no idea what had been going on. It turns out he hadn't slept the night before. I guess he had a pain in his arm. It was either like a mild—- I think at the time they were like his blood pressure was just very very high or something like that. I still kind of don't know if it was a mild heart attack or what. 
But yeah, so my mom had just literally—- I guess it had gotten so bad that she didn't even have a chance to tell me. She put him in the car. She called his friend to come get me, and she just raced him over to the hospital.
THERAPIST: My goodness.
[00:23:03]
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. (pause) 
THERAPIST: That's also just traumatic in how out-of-the-blue it is.
CLIENT: Yeah, especially when you're—- I mean, I was so attached to him.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And you didn't know anything was wrong.
CLIENT: Nope.
THERAPIST: And they're there, and then they're gone.
CLIENT: Right, right. 
THERAPIST: I mean, talk about the feeling that life is going to end very soon.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: That's embedded in you in just that memory alone right there, of however long it took you to just wrap your mind around that he's in the hospital.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Something really bad is happening.
CLIENT: I don't think I'd ever—- I think the only time I'd been to a hospital was when one of my younger cousins was born. I have a vague memory of being at the hospital. But, you know, you're excited, this little baby, you know. And I barely remember it. I just remember we went and got ice cream, which is kind of why I love and I hate it.
[00:24:02]
I could write a whole thing just about my relationship with that hospital, you know. Even now and I've been up to that—- I remember, and this is so weird. I remember being there and going to the vending machine with somebody in my family, and they got me an ice cream bar. It was an ice cream sandwich or whatever. But yeah, that was definitely a fucked up thing. I wouldn't go with the guy and he kind of had to—- he didn't force me, but you know, he obviously wasn't going to leave me there. 
THERAPIST: He wouldn't go. Do remember what he—- 
CLIENT: I just said "No. They're upstairs." I said "No, my mom and dad are upstairs."
THERAPIST: So you were in disbelief even.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And then what? He convinced you about it?
CLIENT: Yeah, he didn't even get out of the car. I remember that. He was like "You have to get in, trust me. Everything is okay. You just have to get in the car, and I'm just going to take you. You're going to see your mom and dad." Or something like that, I don't know. 
[00:25:06]
THERAPIST: You knew this friend pretty well.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, nice guy.
THERAPIST: He was trustworthy.
CLIENT: Yeah. There were some really nice Assyrian families there. Very nice people. Very very nice. Good people. But, you know, it doesn't matter when you're nine or 10, you're just freaking out. 
THERAPIST: Do you remember ultimately getting in the car?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't remember the trip to the hospital, but I remember getting in the car, yeah. Then the only other thing I remember is even the hospital—- I don't remember much. I just remember my dad seeing me and crying and kind of, you know, patting me or hugging me or something and was like "It's okay. Everything is okay." Something like that. (pause) I'm sure—- you know, it's funny but I never thought about it, but I'm sure that's probably why I've had hypochondria and anxiety because it was exactly 10 years before he died, so he was 48.
[00:26:07]
That's a scary—- so he was young and I was young, you know. That's a scary—- I mean, he was young in the sense that if you're someone who is going to be a hypochondriac (chuckles), that's the kind of shit that, you know. I mean he was a chain smoker and whatever, a factory worker, you know. And the other thing I remember is then he was home from the hospital, and I caught him smoking on the balcony. He had supposedly quit, but I remember he was wearing his trench coat (chuckles) and his pajama bottoms, and he was out there smoking.
THERAPIST: You shook your head.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: You shook your head.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just lame. That's the one thing about my dad, like he just—- I don't know why—- but he just couldn't—- and he never really gave it up. He always continued to smoke. It wasn't as much, but it didn't matter. Like he was smoking. And the Assyrian coffee and you know.
[00:27:06]
I mean, that's like having—- it's espresso, it's Assyrian espresso. So imagine having three of those a day or whatever. 
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: (pause) Working in a factory, just all that shit. And of course not listening to doctors. I don't think he took any medication. Actually, I know that he didn't. So, you know, in that way it's pretty selfish, kind of. 
THERAPIST: He's not thinking as he has his cigarette of your need to have a father.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, but my compassionate side says you know, who knows what the hell that poor guy—- you know what I mean? He doesn't have any family here. He's stuck with these fucking dumb heads.
[00:28:07]
We're so polar opposite of what he is, you know. Working in a fucking factory. His brother died when he was—- 1934, 1963, what is that, 20-something? When he was young, his brother suddenly died who I think he was very very—- I mean, they were all close to him, but I think my dad, being the youngest and he being the oldest, they had a kind of special bond, you know?
THERAPIST: So his brother died when he was 29?
CLIENT: My dad must've been around—- he was born in '34.
THERAPIST: You said '63, okay.
CLIENT: So 1963, so my dad must've been 20-something.
THERAPIST: 29.
CLIENT: Yeah. And his brother—- 
THERAPIST: When his brother died.
CLIENT: Yeah. His brother was, I think, 50, 48, like my dad, yeah. I mean, he was kind of fat and he was the head of the (chuckles) Assyrian church during an incredibly fucked up time. So it's not super shocking, but still, I mean, you know. 
[00:29:16]
THERAPIST: Do you know what he died of?
CLIENT: Similar to my dad, his heart. There's some weird stuff about maybe he was poisoned. There are theories about—- 
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Because of his role in the church, you mean?
CLIENT: Because he—- it's a long story, but he ended up being kind of like—- you know, back then there were all these figures that just—- that period was just so crazy. He was like the Assyrian kind of Martin Luther King kind of—- he became one of these figures, you know. So despised, kind of, initially by certain people, to the point where there were killings. They would send prostitutes to the church and smear shit on the walls. I mean, it was really brutal. Really really brutal. It was basically the CIA and the KGB using them during the Cold War.
[00:30:10]
And my uncle, you know, was just somehow above all that. Just he really—- to the point where when he died, then suddenly there were like 700,000 people at his funeral. They closed down the streets. So he definitely was one of those people that dies kind of young and kind of galvanizes. 
So there are some theories that supposedly the night before he died, he was at a dinner thing and it got heated and someone literally struck him, like slapped him in the face or something and called him something, and that possibly he was maybe poisoned. I don't know. There are all these things, you know.
THERAPIST: I heard—- I think I didn't quite know this was your father's brother.
CLIENT: Oldest brother.
THERAPIST: Oldest brother.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think also that he was—- that oldest brother—- was like their half-brother or something like that. My mom hasn't told me the whole—- there's something about my grandfather's—- this was my grandfather's brother's kid or something and when they died, like they took him in.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
[00:31:15]
CLIENT: Or something like that. Which kind of makes sense because why weren't any of the other kids sent off to the monastery? You know what I mean? They probably took him. He was the oldest, and they were probably fucking shit poor or something. The Assyrian church is known for—- those are the kinds of kids they take, they give them a good education. You know, it's a good upbringing. It's kind of almost like a privileged thing at that point. So I don't know all the details. But also age-wise, you know.
THERAPIST: So they might have been cousins.
CLIENT: Exactly. First cousins.
THERAPIST: First cousins.
CLIENT: My dad and his siblings and my uncle.
THERAPIST: Yes, okay.
CLIENT: Oddly, he looked a lot like if you shaved his beard—- he looked a lot like my dad except just huge. But weird, yeah. The same gentleness in the eyes, and there's something about him that looked a lot like my dad.
[00:32:12]
But age-wise it just makes sense because he was like the pope of the Assyrian church at 56. I mean, my dad was born in '34. It just kind of doesn't—- 
THERAPIST: That's why I think I hadn't quite placed—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's an odd—- 
THERAPIST: —- was thinking about is the generation before and how even though you told me about that person—- 
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah, there's something, yeah.
THERAPIST: That makes sense.
CLIENT: Yeah. So anyway, what I'm saying is in terms of my dad, you know, just who knows what the fuck. If it was any other—- like if everything else was copasetic, it would be like "What the fuck? You have a nice job, blah blah blah. Why are you smoking?" But man, you're working the night shift at a factory and dealing with your wife's stupid family. I don't know. You're alone. You never saw your parents again. Who knows, you know? He was very stoic, but I think there was a lot of sadness, you know? (pause)
[00:33:22]
THERAPIST: I wonder though if your readily-available compassion for him also serves the function of stopping you from feeling compassion for you. Know what I mean?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: If you moved your compassion for him, you don't have to feel so sad yourself about—- 
CLIENT: Well, I don't know. I feel pretty sad. (chuckles) I feel pretty sad, yeah. No, no. My dad, that's—- I don't try to cover that up. That just sucks. There's no—- like that's just something you don't get over, you know? You just manage it. 
THERAPIST: You say you feel it, but you don't talk about it at all.
CLIENT: I guess because I just feel like it's omnipresent. I feel like almost anything I say or do can be traced back to that.
[00:34:23]
Why did I go to LA? You know, like why do I have issues with commitment, abandonment, anxiety. I mean, a lot of that just goes back to losing my dad. I'm sure there was stuff before then, but it was like an avalanche after that. Something just got completely triggered.
THERAPIST: We've talked about some of that, but you haven't talked as much about what you're bringing up today, about your own feelings about what he did and did not do when he was alive.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. 
THERAPIST: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. No, I mean, definitely he was of that generation who were kind of selfish in that way and just not thinking, you know. They lacked that faculty of like, on the one hand, sacrificing everything for your family, but not understanding the simple things of like "Well, maybe I shouldn't smoke. I already work in a shitty factory all day."
[00:35:25]
So it's something about "Well, the doctor says this, but whatever." I don't get that, and it's really fucking lame and selfish. I guess it's just that that's not so unusual in that generation, you know what I mean? (pause) 
So, you know. I mean, even my mom. Thank God she's okay, but you know, she goes to the doctor but I don't fucking know. Like she's so—- I mean and obviously maybe she's doing something right, thank God she's okay. But there isn't a sense of like "The doctor says I should lower my cholesterol, okay." It's just like "I've been eating more yogurt. Acidophilus is good for that and garlic." Well, that's all true, but you're still kind of not taking it quite—- you know what I mean? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Not in reality about the—- 
[00:36:22]
CLIENT: Well, my mom is much more—- I mean, she literally does take care of herself. She doesn't smoke, no coffee, no alcohol. But yeah, there's something about "I'll listen to you, but then I'm going to do it my way. Yes, you're right about the cholesterol, but I'm going to do it with garlic and vinegar." I'm sure that shit—- I do believe in that stuff, I think. But, you know, you've got to balance this stuff. If the doctor says blah blah blah, then don't just go to Whole Foods and buy some supplements, you know? 
So again, for her it's different because she really has all her life taken care of herself, so hey, props. But someone like my dad or people like his friends, some of whom they lived longer, but not so well, you know what I mean? It's like well, yeah, you're drinking whiskey, you're smoking cigarettes, you're fucking drinking that shitty coffee. (pause)
[00:37:23]
There's no emotional well—- I mean, who knows what these guys are thinking and they're not expressing and working these shitty fucking jobs or dead end—- they have these little businesses that must be depressing maybe. I mean, who knows. They don't see their family—- their whole story is so different than—- you know what I mean? They've left their families behind, they've gone through hell. I don't know. (pause) 
But yeah, my grandfather, the man quit smoking. You know, he had a heart attack—- my mom's dad—- when he was 50-something or whatever and stopped smoking. That was it. Yeah, he died of heart failure when he was 92 (chuckles), you know what I mean? I mean, you've got to—- like my grandmother stopped smoking, you know. So yeah, I mean, it's not cool at all. 
[00:38:28]
THERAPIST: So it's not out of the realm of possibilities to have stopped.
CLIENT: Of course, of course. There are people who smoked way more than he did, probably, who stop, you know. That's what I'm saying. There must have been something, a bit of a fuck-it attitude, you know. Which a lot of that was good, that's kind of what I liked about him, what a lot of people liked about him. But when it comes to your own health, you can't—- that's what I'm saying. There was something maybe in him that was like "I kind of don't care." Like—- what's the word? I guess it's compassion, but it's more like I just—- there was something—- it wasn't like "I don't care about my son and my wife." There was something, I think, deeper about, you know. (pause) I don't know. I could be totally wrong, but who knows.
[00:39:24]
THERAPIST: No. I mean, I think you're saying as you're remembering. That's right, other people quit smoking. Even though it was common in that generation, there also were people who got the recommendation to stop and stopped.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: So there's something in him, in his personality and his character, something about him that had an attitude towards this kind of self-care stuff where he was just—- 
CLIENT: It's like tempting fate almost, yeah. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, it feels like that. I mean, even though—- 
CLIENT: Now, of course, the funny thing is—- see, this is why his fucking attitude is also right, because his sister who is now 87 or some shit like that, still smokes and still drinks coffee. So, you know, at the end of—- you know what I mean? Like if you trick it logically, I can kind of understand (chuckles)—- not that I can understand it, but maybe he was just thinking "Well, everything is kind of—- why do little children die and other assholes live until they're 100, eating Big Macs every day," you know?
[00:40:34]
And he did have a kind of carpe a diem, you know, like "Look man, I just want to enjoy a fucking cigarette." I think he had that, like life is hard enough. I guess. Again, I don't know, but I have a feeling. Because I think that's what his sister has. If it comes up, she's like, you know. 
THERAPIST: So it just happened. I wonder what that is, when you've been moving along, feeling something about something, in this case feeling annoyed—- more than annoyed, maybe—- at your father for not quitting. Feeling angry about that. And then all of a sudden, stop and say "But on the other hand, I can sort of see his point."
CLIENT: Yeah, because I—- 
THERAPIST: Do you know what moves you there?
[00:41:26]
CLIENT: Well, because I can. I mean, it's sympathy, I think. I mean, I can kind of—- 
THERAPIST: Are you just trying to see both sides all of the time?
CLIENT: Well, no, it's just if I put myself in his shoes, I don't even know how that guy did it. How a lot of these people did it. You know what I mean? Like why did my grandfather quit smoking? Like the kind of lives these people have lived? Fuck—- 
THERAPIST: That may even seem crazier.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: It may even seem crazier to have quit.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's like, are you kidding me? The guy went to prison in the Soviet Union. He's the only one of nine kids that lived. Like, you know, what the fuck? So that's why, like that's such a different universe to me. It's not like this American—- the luxury of like "I think I'll quit smoking and go walking every day for 40 minutes." I think we can't comprehend that. We can only talk about it, but we can't—- 
[00:42:28]
And maybe this is why I have trouble writing about it. I can't presume to think I understand that world because that's just unbelievable to me, you know? So that's what I'm saying, like you know, if he wants to fucking have his cigarette, you know. I mean, it's not excusing it. I'm just saying that's why I kind of waver. (pause) 
I mean, to be told—- like when was it? The late '80s, '86, '87. In our kitchen, to be told by my mom's cousin that his father had died. What is that? You know what I mean? Like how is he—- so that was it. Left in like early '60s, his mom had already, I think, died or died in the '60s-whatever, died of pneumonia or TB or something like that. So that's already—- who knows what he was feeling about that. And then his dad lives all those years until he's like 90-something and doesn't get to see him, and now he's just told in this fucking kitchen (chuckles)—- 
[00:43:34]
THERAPIST: So his dad was still back there?
CLIENT: All in Assyria. [All of them]. His mom, yeah. And to be told—- 
THERAPIST: And so he hears through your mom's cousin?
CLIENT: My mom's cousin tells him.
THERAPIST: How long—- 
CLIENT: Told him very gently, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: But I mean, what a weird, you know. So things like that, you know. (pause) I mean, I do the same, right? Like sometimes I eat shit. I go to McDonald's. That's sometimes the feeling, like you know, fuck you. (chuckles) Like I'm not going to sit there eating broccoli while in this moment, this is what I need to do, you know. I just want something that tastes good and maybe give me some comfort. I'm more aware, so I try—- you know what I mean? Like it's a different mindset.
00:44:31
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) Yeah, we know from your own experience, compassionately what that feeling might be when you've endured so much that you just want to at least have your cigarette, have the peace of your Big Mac or your cigarette. "Just have this moment right now because so much has been so horrible that really, you're going to take this away from me too?"
CLIENT: Right, exactly.
THERAPIST: "You know, fuck you."
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: And yet, that thing that's sort of a deprivation state, like "I need this to survive because everything else has been taken away from me," the thing he's needing or the thing you're needing in that Big Mac is also a self-destructive thing.
CLIENT: Oh absolutely, yeah. That's what I'm saying, there's a difference in that when I do it—- well, first of all, I don't do it often. But when I do, I know that okay, I'm indulging here. This is not going to happen again for a little while, you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Totally.
[00:45:37]
CLIENT: So I would've been totally fine if once in a while he's having a cigarette.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm totally fine with that. But when you literally just cannot fucking give that shit up, that's where I have mixed feelings. Of course, you know, it's just selfish. There's kind of no excuse, but there's a context, you know. I think that's where I kind of, you know.
THERAPIST: And yet it's sort of hard, it sounds like, to take in the context as understanding but also not make the context erase any accountability—- 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —- for the decision-making.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right.
THERAPIST: Where you are able to say it's a splurge—- 
CLIENT: Or even the fact that I don't smoke. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I like smoking. I fucking love smoking. I don't do it. Never have. Maybe a few a year and even then, I don't even inhale. It's literally just a fun little thing. I puff it in and I blow it out, and nothing goes into my lungs.
[00:46:38]
So I do it. I don't have a wife and kid. I just don't want to do it, you know? So, no, absolutely, it's just a kind of either arrogance, selfish, whatever, ignorant something. (pause)
THERAPIST: Monday.
CLIENT: Okay. Monday at 3:10.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks. Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: You too.
END TRANSCRIPT
