TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: Pull up a chair.
PATIENT: If that is okay with you. 
COUNSELOR: Hey, you know, make yourself comfortable. No I am serious.
PATIENT: Oh, okay.
COUNSELOR: I don't want you to be. You laugh like I was like I was giving you a hard time.
PATIENT: You asshole, sure make yourself at home. Okay, well here is for that last shipment, I mean, here's for the check for [inaudible]. 
COUNSELOR: Feels like the PSQ's are in here too.
PATIENT: Yeah, well I can't really talk about that with you. 0:00:36.4
COUNSELOR: [laughing]
PATIENT: I don't know what a PSQ is anyway.
COUNSELOR: The questionnaires.
PATIENT: Statements.
COUNSELOR: Post session questionnaire.  I pick that kind of stuff up for them.
PATIENT: I knew you guys, I knew you were a scientist, you know. So you had that like clipboard feel to you.
COUNSELOR: Clipboard for you?
PATIENT: Yeah, not exactly a compliment was it.
COUNSELOR: I don't know, I am not really sure. I am not really sure what you mean.
PATIENT: Yeah, I was playing with the words. So, yeah. So that was a pretty interesting session yesterday. As the weekend approaches, I was wondering to myself as I was walking up. There are two things that are interesting here. I also started giggling before I even got here this time. Which I, and then when I realized that in the sitting room here, the waiting room. I actually even started giggling even more. So, we've actually got, uh, we've made some progress. You know I think that is really good, I'll tell you what street I giggle at. Start around like 11th.
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what the progress is that you see in it. 0:02:07.7
PATIENT: I was not seeing any progress on it at all. I just noticed that the giggling is now starting before I even get here. 
COUNSELOR: And so -
PATIENT: I have no idea what it is. But-
COUNSELOR: I see. So you're joking that it is going backwards as opposed to progress. Regress.
PATIENT: I don't think it is that either, I just, I think it is amusing that I am now giggling before I get here.
COUNSELOR: So the giggling has increased, if anything.
PATIENT: Giggling is increasing. That's right. Certainly starting earlier. I don't know I have to put like some sort of scientific, it might be ending earlier in the session, I mean, so it could. It could be a whole different dynamic. 0:02:51.6
COUNSELOR: You look about ready to giggle now though.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, well of course. This is really just unprecedented, I have never. I haven't done this, I don't think I have ever done this in my whole life. A regular funny guy.
COUNSELOR: You don't sound to sure. 0:03:16.6
PATIENT: [laughing]. I hope the people that decoding these tapes are making a lot of frigging money because this has got to be annoying to look at. [laughing] sorry Jim, this is going to be, I am going to be one of those patients. 
COUNSELOR: You kind of, I get the feeling. I am not really sure, what it is. Do you get the feeling that you kind of put yourself down about it too? 
PATIENT: Well yeah. This isn't exactly productive behavior. I don't if its dysfunctional but it is not getting me anywhere.
COUNSELOR: I don't know, I am not so sure. I'm really not.
PATIENT: Well.
COUNSELOR: I don't think that it is accidental. 0:04:16.5
PATIENT: The giggling. No it's not accidental. And it is not intentional either. I mean, I'm not doing it. Believe me, I have no plans to do this.
COUNSELOR: Right. 
PATIENT: I had planned to come in here and give it the old college try. Work out some issues.
COUNSELOR: I guess that, yeah, I guess that's probably why the giggling seems so surprising and out of place.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think it is actually building on its self. The more that I don't know what it is, the more it is making me nervous and so whatever started it, its actually finishing its self. So, Jesus, finally an insight. 0:04:56.4
COUNSELOR: You seem to being saying something about what it is to be thinking about the giggling all the time too. Not all the time, at least in here. And sounds like you have been doing a little think about it outside of here too.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, I notice, well what I have been doing is thinking about this issue of self editing. And I used to think that I... I used to, well this issue of speaking up and just getting things out. Because it is on my mind a lot. And trying to be more aware of it. I don't know what. I have since, it seems like the closest thing that we have done is talk about how the giggling, or at least my first take on the giggling. Is somehow suppressing saying something or thinking something. And that by huge leap of logic, I have come to the conclusion that I still have problems speaking my mind. And this is two people that I am intimate with. Like I am real good with the middle level social behavior. So tell me about your apartment Jim, upper east side. You know. Or take the N train to Queens? So I am pretty good at that, but then it is like when the stakes get higher then that whole formula of which it doesn't really work. And so I am trying to - 0:06:56.7
COUNSELOR: Well you say when the stakes get higher. And it seems to me that can be any number of things. 
PATIENT: Well to me, it means Cynthia. Although it can mean just basically anybody, anybody in a position to judge me. Or anybody, you know, my boss a little bit in my work. Actually it is mostly women I think. I am not sure. I think it is mostly women, unfortunately. 
COUNSELOR: And anyone in a position to judge you. 0:07:35.7
PATIENT: Well basically anybody that I've sort of handed the keys to the city. Anybody who, I mean I am very needy. See this is, it is all very messy. At least we agree on that. Well I figured, I don't know, my take on relationships right now is that you can have like lots of rational ones, but the ones where somebody like takes your breath away and kind of you find yourself disclosing more than you want to. Stuff like that. Those are the, it's not really easy to, those are the dangerous ones. And those are the ones that also will be the most exciting. To where there is, you know, I mean. At least and when you spend enough time somebody you just start investing in it. It's like investing. And the more investments that you have, like with any bank or with any, you know, stock portfolio, you know you are exposed. And as, because as your identity gets wrapped in this person, you know you really, at that point, you know, their attitude towards you is going to determine, you know, how your investment is doing. I know that sounded a little [inaudible]. 0:09:13.4
COUNSELOR: They might judge the worth of your investment. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess. That's, yeah, probably a lousy metaphor it doesn't really go very far but it, I think at the very least, my identity becomes about what they are thinking of me. And so what my take on this so far was that what you were saying was basically, actually you never said this. Although I inferred this from this the handout, the handout said something like you were going to experience the range of emotions or something like that. I think that was on the second part of the last page or the last half of the last page. So, okay, so basically this is like bungee jumping, right. This is emotional bungee jumping. You know. I am going to, Ted, I am going to show how strong these cords are, you know. And in this setting you can do. And then when you go back out into the real world, you are just not going to be worried about this. Or you are going to be much more used to the feeling of falling, or something like that. 0:10:36.3
COUNSELOR: Sounds pretty risky, the way that you put it.
PATIENT: Well, the sheet told me that it wouldn't be. 
COUNSELOR: The sheet told you. 
PATIENT: I don't like this sheet. It seemed a little limiting. It's like -
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well, I wondered.
PATIENT: Like a freshman in class.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wondered what you thought about that sheet.
PATIENT: Here is the syllabus. I was like, okay am I cured. 0:11:11.8
COUNSELOR: Once you read it.
PATIENT: Yeah well.
COUNSELOR: You refer to the sheet often.
PATIENT: [laughing] sorry.
COUNSELOR: What is so funny?
PATIENT: I wrote some nasty things about the sheet. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Well I certainly have thought that way, it's like oh god.
COUNSELOR: You haven't said any of them.
PATIENT: I know, I know. 
COUNSELOR: Well lets say you haven't said them directly at least.
PATIENT: I haven't said anything to you; no I say lots of things to myself. But anyway. 
COUNSELOR: So would it be fair to say then that you have had a lot of reactions to this sheet then. 0:11:53.6
PATIENT: It just seemed pokey, hokey, not hokey but pokey.
COUNSELOR: Pokey.
PATIENT: Pokey, you know?
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure that I get that. 
PATIENT: Pokey, you know clunky. You know, I mean. It was just, how can you lay out an entire theory of counseling in two pages. And if you could just complete, I mean Christ. Erikson, like, published. I mean how many books did Erikson write? How many, I mean what about Fromm he is like still, he was slamming them out in one year. They are all kind of the same but I mean he never quite it right. You know, it was just like, pick up the sheets. It's like okay we are done, gee I don't know. I mean. So, you know, I was just kind of. 0:13:01.1
COUNSELOR: You were making a joke of it again though rather than -
PATIENT: Rather than what?
COUNSELOR: Well I don't know. I guess, well tell me if I am wrong here. But when you make a joke like that I get, it looks like, it feels to me like you're working to say something else. But instead you make a joke. 0:13:23.1
PATIENT: [laughing] this is.
COUNSELOR: What, I mean, when you make a joke like that -
PATIENT: Which joke are you referring to? [laughing] sorry.
COUNSELOR: We could talk about that one. What about that one? 
PATIENT: No serious which joke are you referring to?
COUNSELOR: You say it in a joking way though.
PATIENT: [laughing]
COUNSELOR: You seem too. I mean you are laughing.
PATIENT: No I'm not sure. Honestly, it is a question of reference I mean. [laughing] This is. I mean you're like watching the ACC or something. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, so lets look at that joke. That's a good one.
PATIENT: On the ACC joke. [laughing]
COUNSELOR: yeah. Right. 0:14:19.1
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Because that was a joke, so what was, I mean. You seem to be laughing and -
PATIENT: [laughing] I am. 
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering what, if you can identify, you know, what is happening with you when you made that joke. What was going on?
PATIENT: I kind of was uncomfortable because I couldn't, but it isn't like cascades of joke. I mean they're just, I mean they are just like one coming out of the other. I mean, it's not even like, like surf. You know where they come in waves of seven, or the seventh one is the biggest, I mean they just. They are full and normal. It is like an avalanche. I mean you know the top part goes faster then one slips into the next. I mean. It is all very weird. 
COUNSELOR: It is like it snowballs a little bit.
PATIENT: Yeah well I did say avalanche, didn't I? 0:15:16.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you did. Right.
PATIENT: I think that's - yeah so I mean. Yeah and so when I was out of control with the jokes I had to make another joke, like can't we watch the ACC. And so I defended my pathological joking with more joking. See I don't know what to do with this. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: This is pretty tricky stuff.
COUNSELOR: And you said that you were uncomfortable.
PATIENT: Yeah, because I was out of control. Lets see how now there was something. Oh we were talking about this sheet, this sheet. [laughing] I'm sorry I was trying to figure out how we got to this sort of stuff and I just remembered that we started off talking about the sheet. 0:16:21.0
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: Okay, so I started giggling about the sheet because. Because first, when you first presented it. Its like okay here is a sheet, now but to me it wasn't a sheet it became the sheet. It's like the Rosetta Stone or, you know. It's like hail the sheet. You know, the sheet tells us this. [inaudible] So but that was then. I'm not being a very good patient today.
COUNSELOR: You know that is another thing you do, you just did it now. You disparage yourself. 
PATIENT: That's true. But don't you think that I deserve it.
COUNSELOR: Well. Perhaps you thought you deserved it. I'm not sure to tell you the truth. I am really not sure why you do it. 
PATIENT: Huh. Yeah, what are we doing here anyway? 
COUNSELOR: Hum? 
PATIENT: What are we doing here? I mean I feel like I - well I guess in some ways this is like messing with my mind. I mean this whole thing, I mean obviously. And it is just like I'll do this; but first, my one of my reactions is to tell you that I know what the fuck you're doing. Because I mean there is just questions upon questions upon questions. 0:18:28.0
COUNSELOR: From me?
PATIENT: From you, yeah. Part of me came in here with a system that was working and now you are sort of deconstructing that with questions, questions, questions, chipping, chipping, chipping. And yeah there are, you don't really answer you just more questions, right. You'll make statements, like observations, its like questions and observations but no answers or something like that. I don't know if, like I can see, I mean it's a little like, well what is the problem with that, you know, or you sound angry about that. I mean you know instead of saying well [inaudible]. So its, like I said I keep wondering what we are doing in here. In any event.
COUNSELOR: So when you. I am going to ask you another question, I am warning you. 
PATIENT: That's okay.
COUNSELOR: You know actually that is interesting I, when you say that I find myself being a little stuck because now I say. Do you get the sense that you almost just turn the tables? Not almost, you just turn the tables on me a little bit. 0:20:16.3
PATIENT: Just now?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I mean that is the way, that is the way that it feels from my perspective. I wondered if you noticed anything like that. 
PATIENT: [laughing] sure. Of course that was the, I mean I didn't do it consciously. I mean I did, I mean I did, I did sort of figure out, I did just sort of figure out the syntax for your reaction. So.
COUNSELOR: And when you put it the way that you did, saying that I am always asking you questions. 0:20:49.2
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I don't know how you meant it exactly, I took that like implicit like, you know, you were getting a little frustrated and annoyed, I don't know. Anyway, I then I felt like well what am I going to do next.
PATIENT: Yeah. I like the bumper sticker, consume and be silent. Don't ask questions, well I mean I don't mean to short circuit your tool. I don't mean to remove your tools or your toolbox. And we have to do that, and do what you need to do and do what you want to do. And I am not going to be weirded out by it or something, because I do get frustrated. Because let me put it in practical terms. I've got a weekend coming up here okay. Okay weekends mean like weekends are where the rubber hits the road in my book. That's where, Friday nights is where your girlfriend sleeps with somebody else or you don't know if she is. Don't look so surprised, not yours. 0:21:55.0
 I mean but. But I mean this is really sort of ugly-land for me. And so, I was coming in here and thinking great, you know, I've got, I mean it's like I'm going to visit this guy. I've got like, I basically got fears associated with this weekend. I also just found that my cousin I am supposed to go dinner tomorrow night with my relatives. And they invited another girl along to the party to meet. I just found this out, like just before I got here. So now I feel guilty because ten days ago I started sleeping with Cynthia. Okay, so I feel guilty, I am frightened because I think basically if I don't spend every weekend night with Cynthia and I don't want to this weekend. I'll be frightened because she will go out and you know, do the dance thing or something like that. So I've got guilt and I've got fear. Are we going to do that, no we are going to talk about giggling. Or we are going to talk about defense mechanisms or whatever. 0:23:05.3
 Somehow magically this going to [inaudible] so, I think the conversation was more interesting when we were going with whatever it was when we came in here with. But part of me is a little frustrated about what is going on here generally. Which is what we talked about to begin with you know. Basically this is an interesting process and that it really, like I said, sort of pugilistic. But, you know, you force me to be aware of exactly what I am doing exactly when I am doing it. I mean and you think, I think you, I do think you're good but. But this other stuff has to like leak in. And so, so I find that annoying. 
COUNSELOR: Right. And I wonder, I guess it may not be as clear in this case. But I wonder if you are turning the tables a little bit again. I mean telling me all this. 0:24:11.8
PATIENT: The best defense is an offense. Yeah. Well I remember all of the sudden during your questioning, questioning, questioning. All of the sudden I felt like you were messing with my head. And then I said quit screwing around and going after you.  Its like okay this is enough. Yeah, you're right. I mean its not turning the tables, I mean I do have patient rights whatever. 
COUNSELOR: Absolutely.
PATIENT: I have the right to know what is going on and all that. Although, so in some sense it just seems like its - Might not be turning the tables it might be slowing the process. Or maybe it is something else or I don't necessarily think it is aggressive behavior on my part. But - 0:25:20.3
COUNSELOR: When I said turn the tables, you know, I had in mind. You said a few minutes ago that you didn't want to take away the questions, my tools. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because we needed to do that. But it did seem to me at the time when it happened that you did want to, at least for a moment.
PATIENT: Fair enough.
COUNSELOR: That's, I mean I am just saying that is the way that was my reaction to it. Which isn't to say that that means that that it what it was. It's just that from my perspective, I was like, I find myself asking okay wait what do I do now? Because - 0:26:19.7
PATIENT: No that is a good point, and I think its. It was hard to sit here and giggle for ten minutes and not know why. I mean I feel nervous and to have you and to have you, sort of the cross hairs get closer and closer to something and I was like okay fuck this. I mean I started giggling more and more and you started poking me more and more. I mean you saw every layer keep coming and you said there is another joke, there is another joke, there is another joke. And then all of the sudden, you know, I guess the joking wasn't working anymore. Because you were knowing that's probably what that was. Joking wasn't working and so I had to kind of bait. And so we are back to square one. That I still can't verbalize very effectively. 0:27:21.9
COUNSELOR: Well I don't know. It seems to me where are in a little different place then square one. Because you're talking about, also, particular, you know, some kind of reactions you are having to these questions and observations that are coming constantly. 
PATIENT: Questions and aggravations?
COUNSELOR: Observations.
PATIENT: Observations. 
COUNSELOR: aggravations may fit both of those. 
PATIENT: Well you know now that I, I'm glad that I missed. I'm glad that I spaced out in the middle of it because, I spaced out in the second half of that sentence. I reinserted what seemed ag's and um's and put in the middle there. Well, I want to get back to this bungee jumping, because I think that is what this is. And I think that is where I started getting nervous. And I mean I think I started being pissed at you. Because it's like, that is what I mean, you better know what you're fucking doing here. Because I am going to be mad, I mean if I end up going out of here, with my head hung backwards. 0:28:32.7
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Then, you know. You know, I don't, I am not very fast as putting my head back on. And so I don't need it taken off.
COUNSELOR: Would you say, it sounds to me, correct me if I am wrong that we are talking about trust. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Specifically can you trust me.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: You know. If you are going to bungee jump, you want to know that the cord is not going to break.
PATIENT: Right well why can't you just say, yeah we are doing stuff like that. I mean, why can't you just say, yeah there is going to be some experimentation but it will work out. I mean, why can't you say you know, look been there done that. 27 patients 26 of them are still happy or at least. Feel free to step in here with stuff like that Jim. [laughing] another joke. 0:29:52.8
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. You put me on the spot a little bit too, you know. You do.
PATIENT: [laughing] I am sorry. Oh no, I guess in all honesty I'm not.
COUNSELOR: You know what. Here's the thing. I can see you're looking for something more concrete. But here's why I don't come in a say those things. Because, I don't find that it helps people. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: I don't. And the reason why is -
PATIENT: Actually I am not looking for a chart. Right, I am not looking for a bar graph. Here my officemate, whew, you don't want him. [laughing] 
COUNSELOR: Well you are not looking for a bar graph. I don't know, I mean. You do seem to be having different feelings and reactions and thoughts about the way that the process is going so far. I mean it has been a few sessions now, you have a pretty good idea of how this - 0:31:06.1
PATIENT: Well I have a sense, I have a sense of how this works. I don't have an idea of how this works.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But you, okay right. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: That may be. Works is the question though. How this work is this question. 
PATIENT: I have a sense of -
COUNSELOR: of what goes on.
PATIENT: No, I do have that. Yeah. Whether it works, jury is still out on that. Could be out for a long time.
COUNSELOR: Is the jury out or -
PATIENT: The jury hasn't even been called, they haven't even been chosen.
COUNSELOR: We haven't picked the jury yet. 
PATIENT: Well I mean that's just the other thing for Christ's sake. I mean, you know, I mean. It's -
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: Like I said, well okay the big problem is yeah I have started to see you. Which means that you do take up, I've started to invest right. And I'm not particularly worried about what you think about of me yet. But, I do feel - 0:32:19.6
COUNSELOR: Why is that? That is not convincing to me. I don't mean to, that may feel like jumping all over you, but that - when you said that -
PATIENT: Are you turning the table on me Jim?
COUNSELOR: Maybe I am a little.
PATIENT: [laughing]
COUNSELOR: Well that is interesting isn't it? That's interesting isn't it? 
PATIENT: Well I'll finish my sentence and they we can get back to whether or not this is interesting. 
COUNSELOR: [laughing] that was good.
PATIENT: [laughing] [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: That was a good power move. I'm sorry finish your sentence and then -
PATIENT: Jim if you want to talk about that, we can, I'll bracket that sentence and finish it later. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, just to say that you - it was my feeling right then when you said that, that my interrupting you pissed you off. And you wanted to finish your sentence. And here I am - 0:33:21.7
PATIENT: It didn't piss me off. No what's pissing me off, if anything is if you want to, why don't we just join a debate club? You'll have a great time, I'll have a great time. We'll pound down some brewskys, you know, I mean. What is this? I mean is that what this is? I mean that is what it feels like. I mean, lets you know, I mean. It doesn't. I mean this feels like these things with these kids, where they say I know you are but what am I. And somebody says, you know, I don't like this, I know you are but what am I. You know what I am saying. Okay fine. And we get into this and like I've said it before it gets into infinite regress, you know where which is frustrating. And so, you know, part of me is just playing with it. It's like fine. You want to do this, I can do this. You know, I mean. 
 And you know reassuring me that, reassuring me about the outside world. Or that look, you know, I can't say I can't help out this Friday; I can't help you this Saturday. But my guess is that over a few months or few months there is a big chance that these skills will pay out in this particular way. Hey, that's not infinite regress, that's not playing games. That's an assurance. That's a reassurance. Or that not even a guarantee, it's just a, you know, your holding somebody's hand while they are trying out the leg again. 0:35:20.1
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Okay, I go out and promise to repair somebody's roof. They don't want to know how to [inaudible] the shingles. They want to know how many roofs I have done or that I know that it is going to be fine. You know, I'll have it off and have back on or tarp over before the rain comes. You know, it's just like been there done that about a hundred times. You know, you are going to here some nailing, you'll have to move this stuff out of the way. You know. So. 
 I don't know. I might be too mindful in some ways of this process. I mean, I don't know maybe I am not good for this because. Because I did read Erikson and I did read Fromm and did, you know. I mean fortunately I read them a long time and I don't know what's what anymore, so I can only sort of guess and be brave. But for me the bottom line what about Friday and Saturday. I mean, how do I get through the week? How do I have a family? How do I have a healthy relationship? That is what I care about. 0:36:41.2
COUNSELOR: Right. 
PATIENT: Okay. And, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Those things are important to you and we are not talking about them.
PATIENT: Well, I guess so. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah.
PATIENT: So why didn't I say that huh. Well I mean -
COUNSELOR: no. You took my comment as a criticism, I think. I didn't mean it that way.
PATIENT: Well I was criticizing myself.
COUNSELOR: Hum. 0:37:08.7
PATIENT: Well, I mean this is interesting in that I feel like, I mean we have like four different times and I don't know what time. Four different times in 40 minutes come up with some kind of weird manifestation of the fact that I can't speak up. You know. I turn the tables on you instead of stop you and say. I mean I do something instead of say something. 
COUNSELOR: You know, do you get the feeling, just to characterize all of that a little more generally. I kind of feel like you and I are involved in a little power struggle here. And maybe it is a power struggle about what this is going to be like and who's going to be able to ask the questions and who answers the questions and that kind of thing. But, I want -
PATIENT: Fair enough. Sure, but you started it. 0:38:13.6
COUNSELOR: [laughing].
PATIENT: [laughing] You did, you started it when you said that I have to start these sessions only. I have to start the sessions only the sessions really for some reason the sheet didn't really give me anything to go with here. I don't get to talk about or I don't necessarily get to sit down and say well Jim, this past weekend I slept with Cynthia and I had mixed feelings about it. And I seem to be drinking more than I used to. And what do you think about, you know. You know, any of that get in there? No. Is that recorded? No. I mean have I been drinking more? Yeah. Have I been drinking every night? Yeah. Are you going to know that? No. I mean am I going to be scared tomorrow night? Absolutely. Are you going to know that, not unless I bring it up out of, you know, whatever, desperation. Its not, but so I don't know. 0:39:20.4
COUNSELOR: It's actually interesting to me because you've brought this up a number of times of saying, talking about what you can talk about and what you can't talk about. 
PATIENT: Well it wasn't on the sheet.
COUNSELOR: Huh.
PATIENT: It wasn't on the sheet and its.
COUNSELOR: Right. But what, actually the way you have come in. Actually what is interesting is the sheet didn't say you should need to talk about this or need to talk about that. But you have said to me an number of times that there are certain things that you have gotten the feeling that you can't talk about. And I don't remember ever saying that you couldn't come in and start a session by saying that I am worried about this weekend with Cynthia. 0:39:56.5
PATIENT: That's true. But what, what the sheet did say was that [inaudible] it was in our relationship would be what we would discuss. That's like great. You know. Do we have any plans for the weekend? No. Not much to talk about. 
COUNSELOR: That is, I mean, that is true. That's right. That's what we, you know, will get around to. Like now we are getting around to this power struggle about what does get talked about and what doesn't get talked about. And -
PATIENT: Absolutely, I couldn't agree more. 
COUNSELOR: I'm actually wondering, I am actually wondering if it been more apparent this session. But I am actually wondering, and tell me what you think, if we haven't been a little bit of a power struggle even prior to this. 0:40:57.1
PATIENT: Are you questioning the whole relationship? [laughing] after all we have been through.
COUNSELOR: You're joking again.
PATIENT: I know. 
COUNSELOR: What is it about this time?
PATIENT: [laughing] well of course. I mean those are all credits in of course. I mean I think that you are right. 
COUNSELOR: What is of course?
PATIENT: I think you are right, I think you are right. And, I mean yes and no, I mean that was, there was. It's too sweeping a statement. 0:41:39.3
COUNSELOR: The power struggle.
PATIENT: The power struggle, sure. I mean I was polite. You were polite. You got to know me, I got to know you. There was no power struggle there. I was waiting for you to tell me what we were doing here.
COUNSELOR: And I wasn't.
PATIENT: And you weren't. Well you know it took us a while to figure, for me to let sort of let you know about me and for me to know about you. Can't really, those aren't really power struggles, so no. They weren't about power struggles, but you were learning the tools I use for controlling. 
COUNSELOR: I wonder why, I wonder why. I guess that I agree with you that I couldn't have all been a power struggle. And yet, I wonder why I seem to feel it was, a little more pervasive then, then you do.
PATIENT: Because I was sneakier.
COUNSELOR: You were sneakier?
PATIENT: And maybe you are just figuring out now kind of how sneaky I am. 0:42:42.5
COUNSELOR: But why would I see that and not you. You would presumably know how sneaky you are. 
PATIENT: But you are the one that it realizing it, not me so now you are having, you're having a paradigm shift not me. 
COUNSELOR: But that's not what you said, I mean didn't you just say that you didn't think that the power struggles were as pervasive as I was suggesting?
PATIENT: I thought that you were saying why, why do I think they are so pervasive. Did I get that wrong?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I think. I don't know. What, wait.
PATIENT: Wait who is on first.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Can we rewind that thing and say what we said. 
COUNSELOR: What I was saying was that you seem to be saying, I had just asked, you know, did you feel that the power struggles had been going on more from early on. 
PATIENT: And I said.
COUNSELOR: And you said that was too sweeping there were a lot of things that weren't power struggles. 0:43:32.0
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Which seem to suggest to me that you were [inaudible] out earlier but maybe not as much as I was feeling, maybe not to the extent that I was suggesting. And I just found it curious that I would think, it just seemed like a discrepancy between our perspectives that I thought that it seemed. That I thought it seemed that there was more of that then you thought. 
PATIENT: Yeah well I still think that, I had an explanation for it. Which is, I mean my explanation for it is that you start to, I mean you started to identify giggling and you know, and excusing when I didn't finish my sentence and this and that and restricting you from using questions and statements. And all of the sudden you start okay the giggling for sure. And the jokes, I mean you picked up on that real quick. But until we pushed that to the edge and I start using this other stuff you didn't really see it as related to power. So I guess that I assuming that, I don't know maybe I am a megalomaniac or something. But I just assumed that, you are sort of reading into this situation backwards because you are starting to figure out some things about me that don't necessarily apply to past sessions. I mean. Where those, were my behaviors still active in past sessions, probably. But, I mean I was sort, I was damn curious about what were doing in here. But I can't say that I was fighting for control of the floor. 0:45:32.1
COUNSELOR: I guess what I mean is, perhaps I can give an example, of I have a pretty good idea in mind of an example of what I am thinking of when you asked about how our sessions were going to start. And I explained that eventually explained. Right because I didn't
PATIENT: Oh right, I think I asked you in the beginning and you answered fifteen minutes later. 
COUNSELOR: Exactly. Exactly. Even there was a little power thing.
PATIENT: Just now?
COUNSELOR: No, well just now, yeah right. 
PATIENT: The fact that I remembered.
COUNSELOR: Now and then. Yeah, well right. Because lets face it. I'm asking you questions and you're expected to answer. But you ask me and I wait fifteen minutes or do I answer at all. 0:46:20.1
PATIENT: Alright. Well I mean, sure. Well I thought that was strange that you did that and I thought it, I can't say that I thought it was a power move, I just thought it was something somebody told you to do. Or just something that you have just I don't know. But I just let it slide. Well okay so it was a power play. Or a power move or a power struggle, whatever you want to call it. Well because I just said okay I'll let him do this if he wants to. Okay I asked a question he didn't answer it and then he waited until the he waited till the end and then he answered it, seems scripted. It seemed inauthentic and I just said fine if he wants to do that, that's fine. I'll let this go on.
COUNSELOR: When I answered it seemed scripted and inauthentic?
PATIENT: No the very action of not answering a question.
COUNSELOR: Oh. 0:47:08.8
PATIENT: Instead of saying, you know what, I'll want to wait until the end of the session to answer that. 
COUNSELOR: Oh okay. 
PATIENT: Instead I don't think you said that, you know, or. 
COUNSELOR: I did say at one point, it might not have been immediately, look I am about to defend myself. 
PATIENT: [laughing] don't do that. 
COUNSELOR: Well, I am about to though. 0:47:30.7
PATIENT: Well no, I mean. Jesus is this going to work, we are going to work ourselves into a real froth here. 
COUNSELOR: I mean, you just, I mean I just caught myself and I realized why, you know, I seem to be getting defensive. And I wonder if you have any ideas about why I would be?
PATIENT: [laughing] the only thing that I can think. Well see we are not going to solve it, we are not going to solve it today.
COUNSELOR: Well you know we may not solve it today, but I mean this is it. You know. 
PATIENT: This is it.
COUNSELOR: This is the work. I mean this is the in the moment mindfulness and it can feel kind of weird and chaotic. 0:48:22.3
PATIENT: [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I figured you would. I was going for an easy one. 
PATIENT: [laughing] yeah right. Well, well I am, okay speaking of being mindful. I will be mindful right now and also a role of the appeaser at this point. Which is that you know. See now I feel like I am, this is just such bullshit. I mean sometimes you can't, this is the problem with this stuff is at some point you have to stop talking about talking. And this is very weird stuff, its. Now at the end of this, I am going to say, you know it is a power struggle but, you know, I am going to walk away from this feeling like I have learned something. Whether or not, so I am being appeasing and basic mindful of being appeasing. It's like instead of being appeasing and or have some contact it is consensual. And friendly we are now going to be aware of consensual and friendly feelings and there is like a distance somehow. This is so odd. But that said, you know I'll just fess up to having a strange desire to say yeah well it is a power struggle, I still do, I do trust you to some extent. And I wish that you would sort of hone in better on either the bungee jumping, what that entails or reassure me more about the quality of the ropes that we using. And - 0:50:28.9
COUNSELOR: Okay. It is interesting that you say that because I was about to. I am going to gratify your wish. Now at this point.
PATIENT: Alright.
COUNSELOR: Because this, I am doing exactly what I did before that you found, I am just going to say this. And I'm defending myself in advance now. Just what I did before with kind of holding off to answer your question until the end which I believe was the end. This, and it is actually this kind of understanding that we are trying to promote here. Even though it doesn't seem right now that where is the end of this. It's not clear. And I'll be honest with you, it may not be for a long time. And I will be honest with you, this process can be frustrating as all hell. But -
PATIENT: Why do you do it?
COUNSELOR: But, it is this kind of thinking and working through things and observing this goes on between the two of us, that I have found in the past helps people. And I have found that it helps much more then some kind of like talking abstractly about other things that are going on and trying to figure out patterns that way. 0:51:50.7
PATIENT: I agree with you.
COUNSELOR: But it can feel much more dangerous, much more chaotic. Like where the hell are we going and oh god another question. Can I just say something without, so acknowledge that. [inaudible overlapping talking]
PATIENT: [inaudible overlapping talking] fair enough and I agree anyway just, yeah, I agree. So.
COUNSELOR: Aright
PATIENT: Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Thursday. Yeah we won't do two next week, so we'll do Thursday at five. 
PATIENT: Okay, I totally should have given you a receipt. 0:52:32.7
COUNSELOR: Oh okay, a receipt. Did you get one from the last one?
PATIENT: No I just need to get two receipts from her. So
COUNSELOR: Okay. No problem.
PATIENT: I can do the insurance thing. Okay well.
COUNSELOR: Very good, so I will see you next week.
PATIENT: okay.
COUNSELOR: Have a good weekend.
PATIENT: Yeah you too.
COUNSELOR: Alright. 0:53:01.8
END TRANSCRIPT
