TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: For the summer I wanted to switch to therapy one day a week.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: I've been doing night classes twice a week.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And I was wondering, do you have an evening appointment that's not a Friday? Because I find myself feeling like kind of like wound up and stressed on Friday nights after therapy. 
THERAPIST: Oh okay. 
CLIENT: So like I don't know. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: After therapy. All right.
CLIENT: Yeah. So then I'm like –
THERAPIST: And you find yourself wound up and stressed and that was a bad time to have therapy then I'd wonder about it but because of therapy I understand. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, "I don't want anything Friday night. Ever." 
THERAPIST: Sure. Okay. Let's see. Do I have another –
CLIENT: Monday or Wednesday. [0:01:03.4]
THERAPIST: No. It is quite likely I will have—I mean like as in 95 percent likely that I will have Monday late in the day open up in the middle of August. Or towards the end of August actually. But that may not help you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. My class ends like August (inaudible at 00:01:37].2). Probably not getting quite right. It ends in mid-August. I think.
THERAPIST: Okay. So—
CLIENT: So how about maybe keeping Monday but canceling Fridays? 
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: That makes sense. 
THERAPIST: Keeping Monday and canceling Friday until –[0:02:05.0]
CLIENT: Um, let's see (inaudible). I'm not sure if the last day—the last day of class is August 2nd. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So let's switch back to Fridays on the 10th. I think. Yeah. Well here's the thing. I think I still want to not have an evening therapy on a Friday night if possible.
THERAPIST: Right. Okay. 
CLIENT: So at that point –
THERAPIST: At that point—mm. How I can do this? Okay. I think I could do—how about Thursdays? [0:03:20.9]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I could probably start on the 16th. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: Again it's the same person leaving. 
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Or giving up that appointment. So I'm about 95 percent sure. 
CLIENT: Okay. What time would it be? 
THERAPIST: 5:15 still. 
CLIENT: That's perfect.
THERAPIST: Okay. With Thursdays being better than Fridays. Okay. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:03:54].5)
THERAPIST: And (pause at 00:03:56].7 to [00:04:15].0)
CLIENT: And so actually I'm going to cancel this Friday as well. So—ah. (inaudible at 00:04:24].0)
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: So—ah. (inaudible at 00:04:24].0) Okay. (inaudible)
THERAPIST: So well go ahead. Is there more scheduling (inaudible)?
CLIENT: No so we're still Mondays at 11:15. And then in August—1:15. Sorry. [0:04:48.2]
THERAPIST: Yeah. And in August we pick up Thursdays at 5:15 on the 16th.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay. 
THERAPIST: And what's the thought about changing the frequency during classes? 
CLIENT: I'm worried that I'm going to be –
THERAPIST: I'm not telling you like (inaudible at 00:05:12].6). I'm just trying –
CLIENT: Yeah. So because—so normally the summer session is—which I have done before—is two nights a week. 
THERAPIST: Because it's a shorter semester. 
CLIENT: Yeah it's a short semester. And I have to do it nights which means I don't get home till late. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So and I have to already flex my schedule to do it. So then be coming in late two days a week. An hour late. [0:05:44.4]
THERAPIST: Because of how late you'll be at class the night before?
CLIENT: Yeah exactly. So I'm just feeling worried about how much energy I will have and also how the flexing hours is going to work in terms of time. 
THERAPIST: Right. Right. It doesn't sound like it's a scheduling issue here. In other words another time would not really make a difference. 
CLIENT: No. I don't think so. I mean I feel like after I have class for probably two weeks I'll know. But it's not really scheduling. It's more like I think I'm going to be too busy.
THERAPIST: Right. And well we should talk then too about how much therapy stresses you out. And tires you out and so forth. 
CLIENT: Yeah it depends. I mean I know we've talked before about—or I think I have. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: About how I feel during the day is a problem. I have to go back to work. [0:06:46.9]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I don't know. I don't always want to dig as deeply into something or talk about—or kind of. I just don't want to deal with things that are difficult or are going to leave me thinking about it for awhile because I have to go right back into work. Which means I think I tend to I guess put more—I don't know—energy or focus into an evening appointment because I am just going home. So it doesn't really matter. [0:07:33.7] 
Which—I don't know. It frustrates me sometimes that during the day I'm like, "Oh but I have to go back to work." And if I had like a meeting—like my office is empty usually but I never know if they're going to come back. And somebody immediately is going to kind of jump on me to fix something, do something. If I'm already feeling at all vulnerable it makes me feel worse. (pause at 00:08:12].1 to [00:08:35].0) 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:08:36].3 to [00:09:02].4) In what way? I mean I think it just sort of makes sense but I want to check. Like how does it make things feel worse when you're kind of already feeling vulnerable and somebody comes in? [0:09:18.8]
CLIENT: Um, so part of it is just feeling like—I mean sort of the way my job works is people come ask me to do things often right away. Not always. But that's pretty typical. And so– 
THERAPIST: It's not just, "Do this." But "Do this now." 
CLIENT: Yes do this now because everything is blowing up. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's not always actually urgent but if someone comes and gets me they want it done. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And so I (inaudible at 00:10:03].0) time I might want to say—I could be thinking, "Can you give me 15 minutes? Because I want to put my stuff down. I just came from outside." And just sort of take a breath and then instead I feel like, "Okay now I have to work really hard." [0:10:22.9]
And also it makes me—sometimes I feel like whatever is going wrong—I don't know. Like I take it a little more personally. I have a harder time splitting it off from like—if something is really urgent it's also something like went wrong. And so it's not like I did anything. It's like the printer suddenly started jamming. Which is a common one. So it's not like I was negligent in doing something or that I (inaudible at 00:10:59].3). It just happened. But I'll feel like—it's hard for me to say no to the other person's sense of urgency. [0:11:10.9]
And harder for me to be like—to sort of be like, "Well you know maybe I should have triaged this." And coworkers who annoy me just will drive me super crazy. Just because it's just—I don't know. Like someone who normally kind of grates on me but I can deal with it, I often find is super frustrating. Go away. I guess it is I don't want to be vulnerable in front of my coworkers. Especially when they're asking me to do something. 
And if I have to go over I.T., I really extra don't want to be. And also if I have to run around with the public. Which in theory I'm really not supposed to be dealing with like random water patrons but that happens. Like someone is really fixated on some computer thing and they call me over to explain why it does work and doesn't work. [0:12:31.2]
And I find myself— like all those things sort of make me more frustrated and irritable. And just like—I don't know. I think what it is, is like ideally I kind of want—like what I would want ideally is like a half-hour after therapy. Just be like, "I'm going to drink some iced tea and sit down for a minute." But since I'm doing this during lunch—I mean I could because no one would probably notice. But I'd feel bad about it so I don't. I think that's a big part of it. I know there's a solution which is just giving myself a little bit of time but I feel like I can't do that. And I don't want to just say—like I could probably get an extra half-hour for like medical reasons or whatever. But then I would have to explain why and I don't want to. [0:13:52.4] (pause till [00:16:02].7) 
THERAPIST: I guess I would imagine that all relates] in part to you're feeling quite exposed here. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean exposed in ways that I—not only do I not want to be at work. I don't really necessarily trust my coworkers to feel vulnerable and exposed around them. (pause at 00:16:34].5 to [00:16:51].0)
THERAPIST: And that I imagine also isn't easy here although I guess I have the impression that you must trust me to some extent with that or you wouldn't sort of being doing this (inaudible). [0:17:03.5] (laughs)
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But you know, that's still not exactly the same thing as it's being comfortable or always pleasant. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I guess I don't—I feel like if it's comfortable to talk about then I probably really don't need to talk about it therapeutically. Because I'd just be—talk about it with myself. Or like call a friend and that'd be fine. So and I guess I also feel like—I don't know. Yeah I mean sometimes it's not that it's unpleasant it's just that it's not—like sometimes I leave therapy and I feel better. Or I'm like, "I don't feel great right now but I think I will in a like a day or an hour." And sometimes I'm just like, "I would like to lie down forever." [0:18:23.3] (pause till [00:18:40].7) 
I mean I think part of that is also I just—like I like to—I don't know. I like to think overnight on decisions almost always. Sometimes I feel that way about emotions. I'm like, "I would like to think about how I feel about that before I—." I don't even know. I just kind of want to think about it. I guess. No rush decisions. 
THERAPIST: Sorry. Referring to?
CLIENT: Like sometimes when therapy is difficult –
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —it feels difficult at that moment. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: But then later it doesn't. If that makes sense. So like right after my stomach might be in knots. Or right before. And then kind of like once I've thought and settled it more I'm like, "I feel better." It's no longer unpleasant or yucky. It's just like okay. [0:20:01.5]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: You know. That happened and that was what I wanted to do or talk about or think about. Like one of the things that I sometimes joke with my friends about—is I'm like, "Stupid therapist is making me talk about things that I want him to make me talk about." 
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: That I say voluntarily. And they're like, "Yeah it's terrible!" 
THERAPIST: I understand. 
CLIENT: I'm like, "Yes! Ugh! Why must I do that?" 
THERAPIST: Yeah. That is definitely a way in which I am terrible.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yes. Like doing what I want you to do. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's real horrible. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And so sometimes I sort of have that like, "Grr." Stomping around for a little bit too.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: And I guess none of the ways I feel really after therapy. Or really feel compatible with doing public facing work. Or anything that's like—or just public facing. Public facing and possibly stressful or public facing and juggling. [0:21:22.5] (pause to [00:22:54].3) 
THERAPIST: I'm not quite sure at the moment how this relates but it occurs to me. And—(pause at 00:23:01].0 to [00:23:18].7). Yeah I don't know if it'll seem related to you but it reminds me a little bit of I think your description at one point about—I know it's not the same—how you can feel like after sometimes like sexual stuff. Or (inaudible at 00:23:39].6) where there's a way where you said like your adrenaline can really be going or you can be in this kind of spacey high kind of way. Which I know is a very different feeling than the kind of what sounds to me like raw, vulnerable feeling you can feel on leaving here. In a way that is sort of like, "Okay. Coworkers or whoever else, you just need to back the fuck off." [0:24:19.5]
CLIENT: I think it's more like sometimes after being at (inaudible at 00:24:25].3) like an event or a party or something with a lot of people—which includes conventions. Like if I'm social for awhile I then need to go back to my hotel room and take a nap. Or just lie there (inaudible at 00:24:40].7).
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: Because I feel I've used up all of my—I mean (inaudible at 00:24:52].6) I've used up all my social energy or brain. I just feel like I've used a lot of—I don't know. I feel like I used a whole lot of energy really quickly and I want to go recuperate from that. [0:25:08.1]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I see. So it's more like that. I guess where I was going with the other stuff—I think I want to be clear with this. I don't—I mean it so happens that (inaudible at 00:25:28].6) some stuff sexually but I would probably think this way regardless of that. (chuckles) You know?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like one aspect of how you can feel here is that there can be a masochistic edge to talking about things that are painful and difficult. I don't mean that gets in the way of the inherent importance of them. Or whatever. 
CLIENT: Right. Do you think there is or is not a masochistic (inaudible at 00:25:57].2)? 
THERAPIST: I'm wondering if there is. 
CLIENT: Um, I don't know. Like sometimes a little bit. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: In that I think, "Well this is just going to kind of suck." [0:26:15.9]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: To talk about. And I don't know. (inaudible at 00:26:24].4) I'm like, "Okay. So I won't do that. I won't talk about it." Except I kind of don't. Except I want to—I don't know. Like there is this (inaudible at 00:26:35].5) I don't even want to talk about that except that I do want to talk about it. I want someone to make me talk about it. Except not because it's not actually forcing. If that makes sense. Like—I mean I guess to me that's sort of the slightly masochistic edges that in many ways it would be a lot easier and happier if I just was like, "I'm going to repress everything. And it's going to be awesome." And then like I don't actually want to do that. [0:27:14.6]
THERAPIST: Sure. 
CLIENT: But sometimes I'm like that would be really great for like a few months. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Or I feel kind of pissy towards people who just do engage in like widespread denial. Because it certainly seems a lot easier. (laughs) So there is that.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. (pause at 00:27:46].6 to [00:28:02].7)
CLIENT: And that's something I'm way less likely to push myself on during the day. Than not during the day. I think in part because sometimes I feel—in my head I'm like, "Well I've already pushed myself on these difficult things. Might as well do a third." 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which is so—really I started—even though I'm not usually hungry before or until like 1:30ish I've started to make myself eat beforehand. So that I don't forget.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because Wellbutrin has kind of messed with my hunger. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: So I don't want to forget. I also don't want to subconsciously be like either punishing myself or doing something weird around food. I'm like I should just eat it. [0:28:58.9]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And also that way if I come back to work I don't have to say—I've already had food so it's easier for me to deal with someone running up to me with some crazy thing. As opposed to being like, "Excuse me for a half hour while I raise my blood sugar." 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "And then I will speak to you." 
THERAPIST: Right. (pause at 00:29:19].5 to [00:31:00].2)
CLIENT: Yeah. It's tough. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
CLIENT: Saturday I had brunch with my parents. 
THERAPIST: Right. Happy belated birthday, right?
CLIENT: My birthday is on Wednesday. 
THERAPIST: Oh I'm sorry.
CLIENT: That's okay.
THERAPIST: You had mentioned I think (inaudible at 00:31:22].4). 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sorry. 
CLIENT: No that was my parents' wedding anniversary. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: And them celebrating my birthday.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Which—so my Dad actually—which again I was like, "Oh my God. What just happened?" He—two of his doctor's appointments were coincidental. So he had been to the doctor all of last week. But he did make an appointment to see a psychiatrist to talk about being concerned about Daniel. And the psychiatrist said that it was appropriate to be concerned. [0:31:58.8]
I guess he was feeling depressed and either he or my mom was concerned that it might be inappropriate stress. So he went and checked in which was kind of astounding. And then my mom and I argued about whether or not it was okay to be depressed about your nephew being really ill. So it was kind of a stress-laden brunch. 
It wasn't really the most pleasant thing I've done but—and also my mom had to share her opinions on treating addiction and other things. Daniel also smokes. And so quitting smoking is really important but difficult. But my mom feels because he quit smoking once he can obviously do it at any other point. (inaudible at 00:32:56].1) she's like you can't make another person make changes like that. They have to want it for themselves. And I was like, "Yes Mom!" [0:33:03.3]
THERAPIST: (laughing)
CLIENT: I'm amazed you said that. But okay. 
THERAPIST: She didn't add that nobody except her. 
CLIENT: Yes. Or like that I'm the exception. That she will make me do whatever. 
THERAPIST: Right. Right. 
CLIENT: Yeah. No. It was kind of—it was a weird brunch. But the other thing is that—so I've realized that what I actually like doing on my birthday is not planning to do anything. Like not doing a birthday dinner or anything. So last year I took the day off. I didn't really tell anyone until after. A friend of mine, I think, came over and we either had breakfast or lunch. And she gave me a cupcake. It was awesome. [0:34:07.0]
And this year I've booked a huge block of time at the (inaudible at 00:34:14].3) Studio. The craft studio. And so it's like a five-hour block and possibly a class in the evening. Depending. (inaudible at 00:34:33].2) I was thinking about is like two weeks ago a friend of mine had planned her birthday party and was super down and stressed about it. And worked up about it because she always convinced no one will come because everyone hates her. And I said I'd make her a cake but she was worried I wouldn't make her a cake. So she also bought three dozen cupcakes. Or four dozen. Which I wasn't mad about it. I was just like, "Of course I'm bringing you a cake. I wouldn't have offered and asked questions if I wasn't going to do that." [0:35:10.6]
But I also get that that was not anything to do with me. It was all about her. But I don't know. It's just like—I kind of enjoyed just being like, "Nope. No people." Like I don't have to do anything. I don't have to worry about will this restaurant accommodate everyone. Will the weather be good? Just nope. The other thing I thought about doing one time—because a friend did it and I thought it was really awesome. 
She did like a day of service on her birthday. She's done this a couple of times. Where basically she and a bunch of friends, they're like, "We're going to go volunteer. Or we're going to go spend four hours doing phone calls. Or picking up trash or whatever." But then the organizations I asked were basically like, "Actually we'd really prefer money." 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Or they're like—some groups it's just difficult to volunteer for. [0:36:17.3]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Which I was like, "Okay." That's seems reasonable. And I'm not going to have to organize people if I just—you know frolic at home. Or go to the aquarium for four hours. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which is also really enjoyable. I did that once. So I enjoyed it. The only problem such as it is, is people asking, "What are doing for your birthday?" Or thinking that I don't want to celebrate my birthday with a bunch of people for negative reasons. I'm like—you know. I don't know. A couple of times I've gotten slightly attitude. They're like, "But don't you want to have a big party and a thing?" And I'm like, "Eh." I mean I like parties but I also like spending four hours at the aquarium. Or sewing for a long time. Or—and it's—you know. [0:37:30.6]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) you have mixed feelings about being the center of attention. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I do. And I also have mixed feelings about sort of like imposing where we're going to eat, what we're going to eat, or whatever on the people. Especially since I know (inaudible at 00:37:55].2) I'm like food allergies, cost, etc, etc, etc. And so I'm torn between being like, "Well it's my birthday, fuck you." And wanting like everyone to have (inaudible at 00:38:14].3) good time. 
And also it's kind of—it's not always easy for me to get like a big chunk of time to myself. With no one really around. So that's also really nice. And it's kind of selfish in a way that I don't feel bad about. Like I'm not making someone do something they're not necessarily interested in. I'm just like, "Whatever!" And it's nice to not have to meet up with someone or have to figure out which of two things. It's just like—I don't know. It just becomes a lot easier. I'm also still—I've been thinking for awhile that I want to try travelling someplace alone. [0:39:14.4]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: But I have a lot of mixed feelings about it just from—well like financially. Because it's more expensive when you can't split it. Safety wise being a woman alone is not usually a good idea. Or (inaudible at 00:39:38].7) I guess. And I don't know. I worry that I wouldn't enjoy it. Like there would be a point where I would be like, "All right I'm done. Now." 
And I've thought more recently of doing—I've thought a couple of times of doing a cruise. But then I'm like, "Oh God. There are so many people." But wait what if I felt—sort of the fear of not knowing who to sit with. And that sort of worry. (inaudible at 00:40:21].8) did a cruise. It booked up. So they're doing another one. And I was like, "(inaudible) cruise. That's the best thing ever." [0:40:29.2]
And it's pretty cheap but timing wise it's the end of December. And I would actually really rather be someplace sunny and warm in January or February. But I'm still thinking about it. And then my mom revealed that she has wanted to do a cruise because that's what you do when you get retired. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So I can't decide if that would be the worst cruise ever or not. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Stuck on a boat with my parents. But it'd be free. But stuck on a boat with my parents. So. I don't know. And it—part of the thing is that one of the places I really want to go to—is I really want to go to India or Thailand. And those are two places where it really probably wouldn't be safe to travel. To be alone. [0:41:30.9]
Like friends of mine who've traveled there are like, "Yeah you need to be with a bunch of people." I mean you can sign into a group when you're there or find other Americans or people traveling. But I'm sort of like—I don't know how I feel about planning to arrive at the hostel and then just find someone. Some people to go with. 
THERAPIST: Right. (pause at 00:42:01].7 to [00:42:28].8) I guess I just maybe (inaudible at 00:42:30].0) but I can't help a little bit thinking as you're talking about this with your birthday and then also the trip and people—saying like—in terms of coming once a week versus twice a week. Like, "kind of looking forward to going it a little more on my own. (inaudible at 00:42:54].1) (laughter) 
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:43:00].2) (laughs) I don't know why that struck me so much. Yeah. No because—I can see you feeling that way but mostly I'm just like, "Oh God. Two days a week. It's going to suck." Class wise. [0:43:26.7]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: We can stop for now. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: But I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: Yes. Okay. [0:43:37.2] [end of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
