<font size="4"><b>Chapter III: Who is an Alcoholic?</b></font>

WHEN, with Dr. Cline's help, I had dug out the roots of
my own problem and had come to understand the pattern
of my drinking, I began to wonder how typical I was.
People are always saying of one or another, "Oh he's a
typical alcoholic," and all of us have a fairly clear idea
of what they mean. But they are speaking about the results
of years of drinking, not of the man as he was before
alcohol became a problem. Are we a type predisposed
to alcoholism and, if we are, how can we be recognized
before alcohol gets us?


Gradually I collected a library on alcoholism and later,
when I was thrown among physicians and it became my
job to keep up with medical developments, I had the opportunity
to discuss the question with many of the psychiatrists
and research men who are every day approaching
nearer to an understanding of the disorder.


Broadly speaking, the psychiatrists consider that there
are two kinds of alcoholic, the true alcoholic, or compulsive
drinker, and the chronic drinker who at first had no
compulsion, but after years of heavy drinking has developed
a craving for alcohol to relieve the physical and mental
symptoms that have arisen from his drinking.


Dr. Robert Fleming, a distinguished Boston psychiatrist
who has been particularly successful with alcoholics,
believes that anyone will become an alcoholic, no matter
how well balanced he may be, if he drinks enough over a

[p. <i>23</i>]

In contrast with the grandfather, who died in time to
escape the end effects of his drinking. Dr. Fleming tells
of his grandson, who "tried to emulate the old gentleman"
when he had neither the same physical constitution nor
the same emotional stability. This boy, tormented by anxieties
and an emotional insecurity that had never plagued
his grandfather, and driven by a compulsion to blot them
out with alcohol, only reached the age of thirty-seven.


There are comparatively few chronic alcoholics such as
the grandfather would have been. They are usually middle-aged
menor olderwho have drunk for years without
feeling any damaging effects and gradually realize that
they are not only dependent on the liquor but that it is
lessening their efficiency. They do not present such a
grave psychiatric problem as the true compulsive drinkers
because they usually have a sense of responsibility and an
emotional control which make them responsive patients.
In other respects their problem is no different from that
of the true compulsive drinker. When medicine has learned
how to cure the larger group it also will have found the
answer for the chronic drinker.

[p. <i>24</i>]

In tackling the fundamental question, "What is an alcoholic?"
psychologists have studied the compulsive drinker
in order to discover whether or not there is an alcoholic
type. It would simplify both diagnosis and treatment of
the alcoholic if they could tell by studying his personality
picture whether he belongs to a recognizable alcoholic type
or whether the alcoholism may be but a symptom of another
disorder.


After any number of exhaustive tests they have reached
the conclusion that there is no such thing as an alcoholic
type. Although the alcoholic develops a sort of superimposed
personality that is easily recognizable, he may have
belonged to any of a number of types. He may be an introvert,
an extrovert, a sadist, a masochist; physically he
may be athletic, pyknic, asthenic, dysplastic. Nothing has
been learned in that direction. The one trait that potential
alcoholics have in common is a maladjustment toward life.
Usually they have let one element of their personality get
so out of hand that it is distorted out of all proportion to
reality. They are idealists run riot, those who in their
fervor of being right lose sight of their goal, or musicians
so intoxicated with music, artists so intoxicated with art,
men and women so mad about sex, or power, or adulation
that they have lost hold of reality and so cannot live comfortably
in the normal everyday world. They are trying
to get more out of life than there is in it.


I call all of these people "dry drunkards," as well as
those who have recovered from alcohol, for all of them are
likely recruits for compulsive drinking. Although they
may never touch a drop, they have that tendency toward
excess of which alcoholics are made. It is not unreasonable
to assume that if they should drink they never would be
able to do it in a moderate social way.


They may be extraordinary people, these dry drunkards,

[p. <i>25</i>]

Absurd as it may seem, Frances Willard had the temperament
that would have led inevitably to alcoholism if
she had drunk at all. She had a vision so dazzling that she
could not see its remoteness from reality. She dreamed of
closing every saloon in America; then there would be no
more liquor  America would be dry. It was a marvelous
goal, clear and sharp and absolute, a goal that inflamed
the imaginations of thousands of women who had tried
every other way to "save" someone dear to them. It had
the fascination of surgery. The cure would be immediate
and final. It was a much more intoxicating vision than the
forever receding goal of teaching people temperance. Close
the saloons  then we shall have saved our dear ones, we
shall have licked the demon rum!


In <i>Tiger! Tiger</i>!, Honor Willsie Morrow records a
meeting between Miss Willard, the slim, intense young
Dean of Women at Northwestern, and John Gough, a
recovered alcoholic who was electrifying America with
his temperance lectures. Gough, who will be discussed
at greater length in Chapter XVI, came upon Miss Willard
and a group of her woman crusaders praying and
singing in the snow before a Chicago saloon. He fell on
his knees beside her and when the whisky and beer had
been poured into the gutter, he followed the women to
their quarters, where they thawed out around an old cook-stove.

[p. <i>26</i>]

"Give us time," Miss Willard told him, "and we'll wipe
out every saloon in America."


"Yes, you will," replied the old realist, "but, Miss Willard,
they'll come back."


She blanched. She could not believe that. What would
such a realization do to her beautiful clear-cut goal?
Either she had to adjust to the further goal of temperance,
the realistic goal, or find some relief from the strain
of trying to accomplish the unattainable.


These are the potential alcoholics. If they do turn to
drink, rather than to some neurosis, they begin to develop
the characteristics of a compulsive drinker regardless of
their original personalities. These characteristics are,
briefly: a will to dominate, to fret at any form of restraint,
to crave excitement and change; a terrifying loneliness
that makes the alcoholic particularly anxious to be agreeable,
to be liked by other people; a capacity for strong
resentment, a distrust of other people's motives, a strong
emotional hostility toward life in general; a fluctuation
between high strikes when he talks largely about important
affairs and moods of despondency when he feels that
he will never amount to anything; and a reaching after
perfection which makes his remorse at his relapses all the
more difficult to bear.


Some of the psychiatrists emphasize one of these traits,
some another. Once I asked Edward Strecker, the eminent
Philadelphia psychiatrist who has had wide experience
with alcoholics, what he considered our outstanding trait.


"The alcoholic is a perfectionist," he said. "He has a
New England conscience. He's the sort of man who will
remember on the way home from the office that he has left

[p. <i>27</i>]

But the alcoholic doesn't like to worry. It is distressing;
it makes him miserable and cross; it gives him a feeling
that everything about him is out of kilter. So he takes a
quick one on the way home to ease his mind. A sense of
well-being spreads through him, a golden haze of feeling
in which anxieties are blotted out. After a third or fourth,
if he remembers the letters at all he is able to say, "To hell
with them." For a few minutes the alchemy works. While
his senses are purring with contentment he cannot remember
the wreckage caused by his last collapse, or the countless
ones before.


A perfectionist who cannot reconcile his concept of perfection
with the shortcomings of himself or of other people
 Dr. Strecker described him in everyday terms of the
psychiatrist's office. In <i>Young Man with a Horn</i>, her sensitive
tale of a musician who almost achieved the impossible,
Dorothy Baker describes him as an artist. She is
telling the story of Rick, the jazz musician, the best horn
player in America, or, for that matter, in the world. Alcoholism
is incidental in Rick's life, as in the beginning it
almost always is. Alcohol didn't kill him, although he died
in a strait jacket while taking a cure. It was his music that
killed him, the music that he could never take or leave, the
music that when he blew it out of his horn always fell short
of the music he played in his head. One could almost say
that a wrong note started Rick to his death. He was in
good form the night he fluffed that note. He had been
playing a short coda that "built up from the tonic note
higher and higher and wider and wider  staggering up
and down the scale with it until he hit his note and then
slid up to catch it once and for all. It would have been a
killer but it missed."

[p. <i>28</i>]

Everybody except his friend Jeff said the great Rick
Martin was on the skids, but Jeff knew that he wasn't
played out, that he was only getting so good that he
couldn't contain it.


"I don't know what the hell that boy thinks a trumpet
can do," he said. "That note he was going for, that thing
he was trying for  there isn't any such thing  not on a
horn."


Rick was so intoxicated with music that he couldn't
make the "demands of expression fit the demands of life
here below." He expected too much from music; he "came
to it with too great a need and what he expected he never
quite found," so he drank to make his frustration bearable.


This young man with a horn is the very archetype of
the alcoholic. His story might have been lifted from a
psychiatrist's case-history files. But he happens to be a
character in a novel and since science takes no note of
fiction, let us find an example in real life.


Take, for instance, the story of Stephen Foster, who in
his short years wrote at least twenty songs that are believed
to have enduring value. At the age of thirty-eight
Foster died a pauper in the alcoholic ward of New York's
Bellevue Hospital, with thirty-eight cents in his pocket
and a torn bit of paper on which were the penciled words
<i>Dear friends and gentle hearts</i>, words for a lyric that
might have been sung today as often as "Jeanie with the
Light Brown Hair." He died looking like an old man, half
starved, burnt-out, unable to cope with a world that
seemed to him a harsh and cruel place.


Why should Foster have died in Bellevue while his contemporary,
Dan Emmett, the author of "Dixie," drank
steadily every day and lived, still drinking, to the age of
eighty-four? When I was a boy, during vacations in

[p. <i>29</i>]

The answer lies in the differences in the two personalities.
Old Dan was a contented man; he didn't expect too
much of life  and never had. It didn't make him bitter
to remember that he had sold "Dixie" for only five hundred
dollars, or that someone else was always getting the
credit for its authorship. He took the world as it was and
he found it on the whole a pretty likable place. He could
never have written Stephen Foster's "Ah, May the Red
Rose Live Alway," which seems to me the most perfect
expression of the emotional attitude of all alcoholics:


Why indeed? The hurt of it  that the red rose and the
beautiful are doomed to die, that nothing is perfect, that
no state of ecstasy ever lasts  is more than your alcoholic
can bear. So he takes a drink and another and another to
rub the edge off his too-sensitive emotions. He never by
any chance starts out to get drunk. Indeed, he always assures

[p. <i>30</i>]
