TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Yeah, maybe you have a question.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: The meditation question; so I remember talking about coming back to it. I remember thinking about it, and then I forgot what the question was. Sorry.
CLIENT: That's okay. It's been a while. The question was essentially both—I was asking for practical purposes and as a sort of existential something that feels a little uncomfortable or strange. If the thoughts and the feelings aren't permanent and are to sort of pass through my brain, then who is doing the—and I understand that those don't comprise me as a person, but the thought that the thought should go on its way is coming from someone. And so if all the thoughts go away, and all the feelings go away, then there is a...then it feels like it's nothing left. So sort of losing one's sense of self or grounding when trying to detach from...
THERAPIST: So this is an experience you have had?
CLIENT: An experience that I have had and then something that I just sort of wonder. But it's coming from, like what I experience when I meditate is often, like; not often. Sometimes I experience it. It's been a while. So maybe I could ask again the next time that it happens. It's just a sense of like, well whose left? Like who's doing the meditating? 
THERAPIST: And did you say that you did ask that question?
CLIENT: I asked that question.
THERAPIST: And what did...?
CLIENT: To you.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah, actually you did. But did you also ask it...somebody had asked the question at the meditation center.
[02:44]
CLIENT: Oh, I did not ask that question. I forget what I asked. It was not about that. So I think it came up. Someone brought something up like that and the teacher was like that's for a whole other workshop. 
THERAPIST: Well let me go at it first as a psychologist, not a...what was that?
CLIENT: That's what I thought might happen, and I think that's fine. But maybe I'm asking you more as a person who's had experience with meditation.
THERAPIST: Okay. Let's see. 
CLIENT: But it's totally fine. And it hasn't, like I'm tempted to say maybe I should ask it the next time that it's like a fresh experience so that maybe I can articulate it better. 
[04:29]
THERAPIST: I think; Okay, let me just make clear, I'm not a mediation teacher or anything like that. 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So I'm not claiming expertise in that sense. But I can give you my best sense of anyway, which is without sort of knowing more about the experience that there's a kind of relaxing or letting go in being less identified with your thoughts and feelings that can be a little scary or can take some getting used to I think. That has been my experience. And I think at the same time it's sort of a freeing experience to get a sense of like what's left and what isn't. 
CLIENT: That's helpful. I think I want to set more with it and...
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think, to me, it's actually a pretty deep question.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it is a deep question. It reminds me of the discussion Jeremy and I had about what the drug ecstasy does. Neither of us has ever taken any hard drugs. Neither of us has ever taken ecstasy and I had no interest in it. But Jeremy is very curious about the ways of changing mental states. So he was explaining something called ego loss that people report at high...which happens at high doses and a sense that you sort of lose your sense of separation from the things around you and the world and lose your sense of identity. And Jeremy thought that that was a very cool and curious phenomenon, and I thought it was the just scariest, worst thing that I had ever heard. And my reaction to it was the thing that I noticed more than what I actually thought about the experience. Like that I was so...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[09:50]
CLIENT: I don't want to die. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess that you had such an intense fear of the thought of it. 
CLIENT: Yes, and I think I have had; I've been pretty...I mean, for the average teenager or college student or whatever, I think I've been more risk adverse when it comes to mind altering substances and the people that I spent time with, but I don't know what the average...I don't know what the spectrum is and the population.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know. But all of this sort of relates to the question that I asked, maybe. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, one of the things that makes me think of is some of the like separation anxiety with your parents and that anxiety that comes along with feeling like immediately connected with them or something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. But this is myself. Like maybe I have separation anxiety from myself. Yeah, maybe it's not so different. After that conversation... 
[11:43]
THERAPIST: Maybe you had just yourself anyway.
CLIENT: Maybe. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I can't begin to address that because I have no idea what it means. But I was thinking that, oh, maybe I should have a different reaction. Maybe I should...like Jeremy thinks it's kind of curious. What would it feel like to really experience that without fear? To experience an experience like that without fear. And it still doesn't really seem like in the realm of things that I could do right now. But clearly, there is some tension; there was some tension for me and how strongly I reacted to it and how maybe I didn't like that—that I wanted to be more flexible or more at ease.
THERAPIST: I know you could. Like I really think it did a little bit, but I didn't mean too much to be like [inaudible 13:15]. I think in general our thoughts and feelings are then part as ways of being not just in all that sort of familiar—like how does [inaudible 13:36] made us feel at home, but like relate to sort of identifications of people and experiences with people and you know, in that sense are ways of being connected to the people who matter. You know like thinking about things or hearing yourself say things of a kind you would have thought or heard in conversation or like, oh, like somebody talking in my head. You know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Stuff like that. 
[14:12]
THERAPIST: So.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Actually, from a psychological point of view like there aren't any sorts of thoughts or feelings that are really different at all from like our relationships and history and so forth. It's kind of all embedded in the people that we're close to. 
CLIENT: I feel very apart from the people that I'm close to now. I really have...feel a strong sense of individualism despite my love or attachment for other people. I have a lot of trust that I've developed.
THERAPIST: Yeah, what I'm saying isn't like...that situates you though, in relation to the people who matter to you. In other words, like independence is still a state in relation to the people that you're close to. So...
CLIENT: That's true. 
THERAPIST: So I'm not saying that everybody's just like I'm mushing everybody together as one, but that if you feel independent, it's like...
CLIENT: From something or someone. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I hear you. Were you going to say something? 
[16:53]
THERAPIST: No, I was more like puddling over some things I was thinking about.
CLIENT: I had a great day with Kelly today. Are the recording people going to know that that's my [inaudible]?
THERAPIST: They don't need to.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Just talk. Don't worry about it.
CLIENT: I should really take a psychology course. Could read about it. Anyway, I didn't talk about this, but when she came back from the Olympics, I had like two of the most meaningful and easy and harmonious conversations with her that I've ever had and much of it has to do with how thrilling and happy she was at the Olympics and how she came back in such a different state of mind than when she left, when she was very insensitive and the example is that e-mailing me on my...on the last day of our trip, when I had already explained that I was taking the red eye coming back the next day, and she replied, "I don't think you're making enough progress." So she had done that to others, similar things. And so when I say that she's great at the big stuff, but can be very sort of; she can really botch the small stuff, that's sort of what I'm talking about. 
So her state of mind was clearly very different when she came back and she was so light and happy and it was lovely to talk to her. And she's a very attractive...I'm very attracted to her as a human. So it was nice to have those qualities be more in the front. She was aware of the...my sort of; the beginning of my journey with seeking some help and getting oriented to painful states of mind. So she really wanted to know how that was going and...the same day that you told me that you have been a meditator for a long time was when I shared with her that I was starting a meditation practice. And she told me all about how she has had a meditation practice in life. 
[20:07]
And while that maybe isn't the most surprising thing in the world given her personality and character, I really couldn't imagine her sitting still for more than five minutes without talking. So that was amazing. Her mother had had a very difficult time and came upon meditation through Christianity and meditated for two years and Kelly saw this huge transformation in her mother from a very pained and suffering woman to someone who really was seeing the lighter sides of life again. So Kelly started up with meditation in medical school and she said that she stopped when she got to residency. But that I've inspired her in that she has been thinking about going back and that maybe she will. So that was awesome because she rarely like will talk about real personal things; not because she's guarded, but because she doesn't think that they deserve much time, as a sense that we get as a lab. Like Kelly will never ask you how you are to really talk about how you are, but clearly she's being sensitive towards you. 
[21:33]
So those were great conversations that I had a nice talk with her about my work, which is moving in an interesting direction. So yeah, this week I spent a bunch of time with her in many contexts and she has continued to be a lovely and supportive person to be around. 
Today we spent about two hours in the car together. And she said like, "I love you and I love your project." It was very nice. That's the sort of person she is. She goes like this. She said, "You're just doing so well. You're doing such a great job at presenting your work," because I had to give her a collaborator like a little overview of...so it was nice. 
It's funny that she's so capricious or I don't know if that's the right word, but, I'm trying to appreciate it for what it is and not get too attached to it. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh. 
CLIENT: But it's a very difficult relationship. It's the most difficult one I've ever been in because it's emotionally so one directional, or it feels that way. 
THERAPIST: With me?
CLIENT: Well, and so this is true of lots of graduate students that I speak with. I don't think it's necessarily Kelly and her personality, but; well, you...I think graduate school for me has been like really feeling around in the dark. Like very little idea of what my direction is or whether something is going to work or what I'm even doing here. So some of that I wanted, so it's not surprising. But some of it is just like, okay, you need a bunch of help. And no one can really help you because a lot of it is just discovery and knowing like where to spend your energy. But the person, if anyone could help you, it would be your advisor if you have; if you picked a good advisor, which I did. So she has a lot of sway in what I spend my time doing over what I spend my time doing not because I'm scared of her or anything, but because she's like a person who could...who knows a lot and so I really trust her opinion, scientifically. So my project direction could change at the...in a day because of what she decides about it, which has happened like three times. And that's not true of everyone, but sort of was my path; like circular for a long time. 
[25:14]
And then also like 90 percent of the things fail, so you're sort of like feeling down a lot and her words and her attitude and behavior can all make a huge difference in whether you feel like, alright yeah; I'll come back tomorrow. It's all worth it. Or whether you feel like, this is dumb. I'm not going to...like this isn't worth it and it's...like her words can mean a lot. It can mean a lot emotionally because it's such a hard path without a ton of; like I don't...I'm beginning to know enough to start to understand what the right questions or interesting questions are, or to have enough confidence in asking my own questions that are interesting. But the scientific community and just the whole set up of basic science is very much like you spend a lot of time not feeling that confident or knowing. So I depend on her for a lot, essentially, is what I meant.
[26:53]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And she doesn't quite seem to depend on me for that much. You know. I'm not going to be the difference between whether she has a good day or a bad day.
THERAPIST: Right. I'm like just kind of throwing this out there, like it's pretty tentative; but I wonder if—what you just said about your advisor—I'm like experience some of it...you were talking about the way that you're talking to me about them and also the little bit I know about your mom. And I wonder if—I don't know if it's kind of like is your mom your advisor. It's like she, you know, remains a lot of authority to structurally...which also sounds like energetic and charismatic, kind of like, possess the connection...
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And that, you know, that's exciting and you kind of worked a role with her in the way one needs to roll with somebody. I guess it sounds like she is somebody who can...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But there's something that gets left out to do with her interest and attention with what's really going on with you.
[29:30]
CLIENT: Yeah, it totally gets left out. 
THERAPIST: Like with you, I understand as a graduate student, some of that is like somewhat structural. It doesn't mean she's an insensitive jerk. I mean...
CLIENT: No, she's...
THERAPIST: That's just how she runs her lab or whatever. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: As part of the setup. It actually sounds benign in some ways compared to some advisors I've heard about in my time. But still, just in terms of what the experience is like for you, there's like a fair amount of like...accommodating or kind of organizing yourself around what you like or what she's like. And you kind of rely on her in some ways, but she's not really paying all that close attention to you and where you're really at. And I think...I imagine that probably contributes both sort of kind of more like work-wise sense and a more emotional sense; so the feeling of being kind of on your own and shooting in the dark.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
[30:43]
THERAPIST: Like I know that there's a lot of that in the kind of work that you do anyway and that most of your trials are going to fail in any case, but I wonder if there's a kind of added emotional aspect to that that comes from knowing she doesn't really know where you're at or feeling quite disconnected in that way, or distant, or on your own.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's very accurate. 
THERAPIST: It sounds a little resonate with what you're talking about with your mediation and other just probably...one reason you wanted to talk to me about it was to feel kind of a little less out there.
CLIENT: Meditation? Yeah.
THERAPIST: A little less out there on your own with an experience that makes you feel a little on your own. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And I don't; the thing I like about it is like...and from what you said your mom certainly sounds like she stirs the qualities up like charisma and energy in connection with your thoughts. I mean what I don't know is whether there's like any parallel sort of accommodating or one-wayness or not. I mean certainly, again, some of that is like built in as a kid. You're kind of, you know, if your mom needs to take you on an errand, you're going on an errand. That's just how it is. But I don't know if more emotional...
CLIENT: Yeah, I think you're right. My mom is much more of a "I'm alive to be a mother and to be with my kids," than most people. So clearly when I walk at home, I feel very strongly my life, my world is here from both of my parents. So there's not a one-wayness in that sense. That's a pretty intense feeling. But I grew up with it and so that's what the relationship is and it's lovely. 
[33:10]
But certainly the amount of...the amount that I rely on my mom for just so many things; so many just like self maintenance things, she does not rely on me, necessarily for those things. Sometimes I'll get, once in a couple of months, she'll just call up and need to talk about something, usually having to do with my dad or our grandfather who is... and then it'll just be five minutes of her ranting, and then she'll be completely over it. 
THERAPIST: You need to stop?
CLIENT: Yeah. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: That's interesting. I'll be thinking about it as I always am. 
THERAPIST: Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: You too. 
END TRANSCRIPT
