Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Let's make sure today it's on. Sometimes it weirdly shuts off. Okay it's on.
THERAPIST: So I think I owe you the name of a prescriber, yes?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I had a few thoughts about that.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:32) I'm looking for my phone.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well hold on because I can give you three names of people who I don't know well, but have worked with, or are people I know and whom I think fairly well of. Although I don't think they have openings and so forth. And there's one other person I had in mind to call because she, if she had availability, and if she does I could send you her name after I've heard from her. I guess, let me actually do that. And if she doesn't, I'll give you the other names. But I will get this done... Today is Wednesday, I'll get you something by Friday.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry to have been slow.
CLIENT: Oh no.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sorry it's taken me a while. Thanks for the (inaudible at 00:01:41), that all looks fine. That's all I need. So we should be all set with that.
CLIENT: Okay. Cool.
THERAPIST: I'm just going to write a quick note to myself to remind myself (inaudible at 00:01:53). (pause) Okay. Alright. I guess that's that.
CLIENT: Cool. (sighs) Sorry about the late notice last week, I thought I'd be able to Skype but my throat was just killing me. I took Dayquil and it didn't do anything.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah. I hope you're feeling better.
CLIENT: Not totally better. Like I still have a sore throat and a cough, and I'm really congested, it's just annoying. It's been a week and a half since I've had this damned flu. It seems like it should be gone by now. I think I got behind in work and my first paycheck wasn't as big as it would have been because I had this, I was just like, I had three days of fever. Yeah it sucked. (chuckles) So that sort of put a damper on the week.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:03:20]
CLIENT: I went to DC to meet Emily's fiancé. And...
THERAPIST: Emily?
CLIENT: Oh, she's my friend, one of my two best friends in DC. The one who's not Michelle, and is studying to be a (inaudible at 00:03:37).
THERAPIST: Emily is... I remember Michelle. But yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't seen Emily as much because she was in this intense program and out of town sometimes. She just got engaged to a guy she has been dating for five months. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:04:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. So I met him and he was really nice. It's not the kind of situation where you worry like, "Oh, she's going to find out he's a terrible asshole who's going to cheat on her and like, you know, yell at her." He was really nice, but you just sort of wonder. Like a lifetime is a long time. (laughter) I don't know if she's necessarily optimizing her lifetime (inaudible at 00:04:25), but who knows, this is the guy she wants.
So yeah. But I couldn't really enjoy DC that much because I was still feeling so sick. And it was the sort of thing where you put in appearances just because you said. It's been a while, but I wasn't really feeling well much like enjoying being out drinking.
THERAPIST: No, I would not.
CLIENT: I had like a girl's night date last night, and even then it was like – I mean I was feeling than I had then, but it was still sort of not fun to drink because my throat was really hurting.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well all of this sounds like you were really feeling crappy. [00:05:21]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was just feeling exhausted. I was just sort of worried because I had a flu like this, like since I got back, that it just went on and on and on. And I wish I would stop having these because it makes... It's the thing that worries me about my ability to do really intense things. (sighs) Yeah. (chuckle)
And I also, thanks for talking to the crisis center people.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I went to the first meeting of that on Monday night. And it was interesting. I think it's like something I need to be doing.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:06:13]
CLIENT: (coughing) It's a really strange situation, like just being in a room with seven other people who all have somewhat similar experiences, but you don't really know what their experiences are. And like, it's just strange. I'm so hyper-aware of my own reactions to the situation. And sort of what I really wanted from myself and how I was actually reacting and processing everything. I guess I just wanted to be 100 percent present and supportive and just positive about these other people, because I'm sort of (inaudible at 00:07:06).
THERAPIST: Right. [00:07:09]
CLIENT: You don't want to be in a place where other people are going to be judging you, but I mean that's just what people do. But you sort of hope that people can turn that switch off in certain situations. This would be one of them.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And I guess I didn't find myself judging people as much. I was really, like, wondering what their experiences had been, how recent they were. And it was really hard not to sort of compare myself to everyone else in the group. Like compare my reaction to theirs and really feeling anxious that everyone else had had much more recent experiences and that they had more of a right to be there than I did.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:07:55]
CLIENT: And it's sort of disappointing because I go really like back and forth between sort of forgiving myself for being reflected, but it's been so long after the fact. And then just saying, "This is absurd. I just need to get over it." And I guess I sort of hoped I wouldn't fall back into the second category by going to this group. But there were a couple of girls who seemed to have very raw feelings. And I'm really guessing that they had very recent experiences. And I felt so bad for them. And I felt sort of like an imposter because I have some distance from mine, and like, certain things that were said didn't strike a nerve and create an emotional reaction. But I think a lot of the way in which I think about this is sort of like analytical and based on reactions I have that are not direct. They are like indirect things that have been reflected back at me so that I can see. So... [00:09:19]
THERAPIST: Like (inaudible at 00:09:20)
CLIENT: I mean, with this whole breakdown I had, it wasn't necessarily that obvious at first that it was related to anything from the past. Like, it was just very mysterious in the way it went down and it was just something I was having. And there are some points at which there are obvious connections, but I don't know. And anxiety in general can have so many causes. That seems less like, sort of, what a couple of the girls were obviously experiencing, which was like a very direct connection to certain topics and events that produced an immediate, direct, emotional response. [00:10:12]
And I sort of wondered what might have happened if I had joined a group when I was... I don't know – I was never really in that place because I was always in so much denial about it. But so I don't know. I just had so many reactions that were thinking, "Oh, these girls are the ones who should be here not me." And then I'm like, "What if I had been there when I was like that? Oh, I was never like that. Are they better off or worse off than I was?" I'm like, "How does that relate to the actual experience and how does that relate to their emotional framework?" I don't know. I just felt sort of like a sensory overload of questions all relating to comparing myself to these other people.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:11:09]
CLIENT: So it was not what I had hoped for. I don't think that's necessarily going to be my experience there every week, but it was something I guess I hadn't quite bargained for in this group. (coughing)
And they said at some point, like, they try to keep it really present-focused, but at some point we were going to go around the room and say one or two sentences about what we've experienced. I'm like, "If I'm (inaudible at 00:11:51)", wishing that that were the first day, because then I would sort of know. But one or two sentences aren't going to tell me what someone else's experience really was. So it's not like that will actually get me what I imagine I want. It's not like anything will. It's not like anything they can say would... I mean, there are certain things that would make it easier to sort of hang onto what happened and how long ago. And I'm guessing I'll find out the very bare bones sketch of that.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:12:29]
CLIENT: But I'm sure once that happens I'll just think, "Well that's meaningless because there's so much else I don't know.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I don't know. And I don't know whether that'll make me feel any better or worse to know because it's possible that everyone else would have had things happen in the last two years which will make me feel like I'm emotionally retarded for having such a late reaction and taking such a long time to process it. But it's possible there will be other people with similar delayed reactions, which would make me feel better. But I shouldn't need that to feel better. I don't know. [00:13:25]
I guess I sort of expected myself to have a better reaction in that I expected I would sort of more support in a sisterhood. (laughing) I'm totally comparing myself to everyone else, which is not the ideal reaction to something like this. Or the most positive – the one that says the nicest thing about who you are as a human being.
THERAPIST: (pause) I think even as you talk about it here, it's hard to think about going to the group to deal with what happened to you. Like, you're getting really occupied with; first, what happened to the other people and how that compares to what happened to you and how you're reacting, then to how it reflects on you to be having that reaction. More so than... Because I think it's a lousy... And even as you're talking about it here, to keep a number of layers between you, or maybe you and me, and what happened to you. [00:15:42]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then it's hard because I sort of feel like there should be a number of layers because I should have developed those over the years, in a sense. I mean, I recognize that that part of the problem with my reaction is that I sort of just latched on false layers that left me vulnerable to having some things really trigger that intense response. But it's just hard for me to get to a place where I feel like I deserve to have an intense reaction to these things, because they happened a few years ago. [00:17:02 ] (pause)
THERAPIST: I was going to say, like yes it sounds like you feel as though in both your eyes and, I suspect, mine, you're not dealing with this correctly. I'm certainly not saying that's true about how I see it, but I would imagine you think I would see it as well as you seeing it that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think that the critique that I imagine you have are sort of different from the critiques that I have of myself. So I don't really... I don't know what I would do to deal with it in the way that everyone thought was right. (laughter)
THERAPIST: I see. Like at least in your mind, you and I have different ideas about how you should be dealing with it that are kind of incompatible? [00:18:25]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then there's how like Seth thought I should be dealing with it, and I think Jeff sort of doesn't have any idea. (chuckling) I notice how Sue seems to... What she seems to think is best. And so, I mean, I feel like there are various models that...
THERAPIST: So this seems to me, what you're doing now, to be another example of what you were just doing and talking about with the group. Like, setting up all these kind of like, I may call them secondary conflicts that keep help you keep a bit of distance from talking about what happened. [00:19:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. And the conflict there is, I mean, they're definitely are real. They definitely frame it. So it's hard to say that they are a distraction per se. I mean, I guess focusing on them solely is a lopsided way of fearing the situation.
THERAPIST: I see. So I have the impression that you're feeling as though I'm saying, I'm actually saying here and now, that you're doing this wrong. And that you're putting up these road blocks that shouldn't be there because you should just be talking about what happened. I guess that's my impression. [00:20:24]
CLIENT: Well, I mean I think that's just a bit simplistic from you of what I think you're saying.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (laughing)I mean, I guess it's hard to tell... It's hard not to interpret input that's like a statement psychologically. You know what I mean? I think there's something in the brain that just translates things into that format. (chuckle) (pause)
THERAPIST: It seems I'm correct about what you're doing, I would imagine you'd be doing it because of how scary it is to talk about what happened? How vulnerable a position it puts you? wherever, whenever with whomever you're talking about it. And that it's really up to you to decide how to handle this. [00:22:03] (pause)
Yeah. I'm not intending to tell you what you should do or how and when you should talk about anything.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't really think you are. I think I just... That's like the natural conclusion I jump to and I'm sort of aware that I do that. I think it might be partly because my parents are really good at saying something like, "Oh yes, I was on this amazing run this morning. It was sunny and beautiful outside and the clean air just smelled so good." But what they're trying to do is like encourage me to exercise more. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I see. [00:23:15]
CLIENT: So I don't know. I might just be hyper-paranoid about information actually being a statement about what I should do.
THERAPIST: I see. So they're like... They can be indirect that way.
CLIENT: They often are. And they tell me about the delicious salads they eat. (laughter)And I know what they're really up to. (laughter)
THERAPIST: I see. And I mean I have an idea along the line of what I just said, but what is it specifically in your mind that I'm up to? (laughter) What am I telling you, you should be doing? [00:24:11]
CLIENT: I remember like in the past when we were sort of talking about these things. I wouldn't say for the first time, but when details were coming out. I felt you thought that I was sort of being too consistently dissociated and letting myself just get away with really just distancing myself from it, and not listening to signals I was receiving from elsewhere. That I should sort of let the experience be more real. Which is a valid... I didn't think that was not a valid thing to say, and I was getting that input from the other personality too. [00:25:11]
THERAPIST: You mean both it and I were suggesting you deal more directly with your experience?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like me to try to point at or wave my arms about you seeming to dissociate or seeming without realizing it, to keep things at arm's length. And I can see how you got from that that kind of implication that you shouldn't, or you should just talk about stuff more directly or think aloud to keep it very real. I don't think that's what I meant. I guess the thing I would presume goes along with that is how overwhelmed and anxious you must be to be doing that. By the reality of what happened. [00:26:41]
CLIENT: I think there are two parts to that. First of which is, this is from a communications standpoint, it's interesting because pointing out tendencies is a useful thing because we don't necessarily realize our own mental habits and it's very helpful to have them pointed out. And it is essentially a different form of communication to point something out than to say, like, you should do the opposite. But I think they are closely connected enough that it's very easy to draw a line between the two. Which is sort of difficult to break that chain of association.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:27:29]
CLIENT: Even though it is different. It is still like different things, but it's just hard not to jump there.
THERAPIST: Sure. Were there ways I was saying things that... And maybe there were, that contributed or that facilitated your drawing that kind of a line?
CLIENT: No. I don't really think so. I think I just have a hard time having things pointed out without trying to fit that into some model of how I should be doing things. [00:28:14]
THERAPIST: I think – I'm going to do it again. I think this is a way you keep people, me in this case, at some distance. Like, or maybe it's more accurate to say, I imagine feeling kind of told what to do in this way makes it feel like you're there a little less. Like, you're there with the other person a little less, in a way. Like it becomes about – I could imagine it feels like it's about being lectured to a bit, or like, it doesn't sound like it feels so much like being talked down to, but maybe more like getting instructions. Or getting a bit of a lecture or something. Which isn't the same as like... Which implies, I guess, some distance or a different kind of exchange. [00:30:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it creates an element that makes it sort of justified to be on the defensive and to be in an analytical mode because there is some sort of charge of getting information of what I should do. That I should have my, like, analytical models up and running, seeing if I should take that in or reject it.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So... I mean, I guess it keeps the wheels turning as they are accustomed to turning, in a way. But I mean, I don't know. I don't know how to just have sort of just an exchange of ideas. I don't know what people do. Like, are other people not like this?[ 00:31:00]
(pause)
THERAPIST: Um... What do you imagine? (pause) I think there are some things particular to you about this. I mean, not you alone, but yeah.
CLIENT: I guess I just feel like communication is structured by the way we see the world and the way we think it should be. And I don't know if there is a way to communicate without really putting forth your world view. And I don't know if there's a way of putting forth your world view without positioning the other person in their failure to, or success in, conforming to that world view. Like, no matter how you try to (inaudible at 00:32:28) things, or take away the certain charge... [00:32:34]
THERAPIST: I say something like... (long pause) Wait. So you're telling me that there's an inevitable sort of clash of world views that happens?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Where if I say, "Well it looks to me like you might be doing this", then you're going to hear in there the implication that you should do something different. And then you're going to evaluate like maybe you should, and maybe not. But it's going to bring into play your own evaluation and judgments about what I've said, which relates to where you're coming from as opposed to, say, where I'm coming from.
And there's going to be like push and pull there, kind of, or some degree of walling off from each other in a way because of the differences in how we see things. And communication, that's a sort of directed again, as far as communicating with people goes. [00:34:33]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that verbal communication is an inherently combative form of relating to people.
THERAPIST: Whew!
CLIENT: And I just don't know if you can take that element away from it. Even in two words or three, "That's interesting", "Tell me more", it is implied that there is something either good or bad going on that should be worked out. And that's not a... There's nothing you can do to negate that. Maybe this is why I... That's why I like talking to people so much. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: So you mean if somebody says, "We'll tell me more, there is the implication there that there's both more to say and value in what more there may be to say about whatever you just said. And so value in what you were just starting to say, which you may agree or disagree with. And you're going to kind of evaluate as you're continuing to talk about it or deciding you don't want to, or something like that. Is that the sort of (inaudible at 00:36:07) you're talking about? [00:36:08]
CLIENT: I mean, in terms of value, as far as I can see, value can always be broken down into these... I feel like it has two atoms, like the positive charge or the negative charge. And it always breaks down to one of those two things.
THERAPIST: Like there's always a kind of balance to how somebody responds to you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There is always a kind of a positive balance or a negative balance.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know if I have this sort of neurotic tendency to overestimate the degree to which people are seeing the world in terms of positive and negative charges. But I kind of think I'm not exaggerating it. [00:37:03]
I think I am more hyper-aware than most people, and that works against me because it makes communicating more difficult. But I don't think I'm wrong.
THERAPIST: (laughing) That sounds to me like a challenge. (laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which I guess comes to your point. (laughing)
CLIENT: Yeah. It sort of brings me back to some of the questions that were more present to me when I was really crazier. Like are other forms of communication less subject to that positive or negative charge? Like with visual art or music, are those exceptions to this rule about the combative nature of communication? And the answer is complicated because which means that people see the major key is happy and the minor key is sad. And every interval has inherent emotional associations that people question. Is that inherent to the interval or is it based on our associations of what the (inaudible at 00:38:28) structure is?
THERAPIST: Right. [00:38:30]
CLIENT: And I think that's one of the reasons I was obsessed with minimalist music. Like Cory (inaudible at 00:38:39), things that's no so (inaudible at 00:38:44). Explores intervals and patterns in themselves that in a way that is sort of appealing. Because it seems like a way to get further away from narrative and from the positive charge and the negative charge. But I don't know if I really believe that it is... And in any case, it wouldn't help me from a practical perspective. It would just mean listening to more music and talking less. Which is – I don't know if that's what I actually want. (chuckling)
But there was a time when it was suggested that I should only communicate through music and shapes and colors.
THERAPIST: You mean suggested by part of you? [00:39:39]
CLIENT: Yeah. (long pause) [00:40:14]
Yeah this was interesting. Back when I would get commends like spend an hour a day every day only thinking in terms of shapes and colors and don't let any words in. And really, from an experimental perspective, trying to see how it was possible to see the world in that way and whether that linguistic structure is, it just exists in my mind and will never in a way manage to co-opt that.
THERAPIST: You know, it seems to me this functions to make you vigilantly attentive to any vulnerability you might have to someone else. In this case, because you're here, me. [00:41:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. And that's another question that I sort of wonder. There's some part of me that knows that it's considered a good thing to open yourself up to other people and their perspectives and to be emotionally open. Then there's another part of me that knows that that's a risk that might actually not be worth taking. And it's hard to make a rational decision between the two perspectives.
THERAPIST: What's on both sides here?
CLIENT: Here specifically? I guess there are sort of answers and insights that seem like they might come more easily if I were in an open place. And I do rationally believe that you want to help me and I can trust you, and so it seems like I should try to be more open in a way, to letting things coalesce and letting emotion mix with reason and try to take down some of the barriers. But then there's sort of the entrenched value that being vulnerable to other people isn't worth the risk. And it's really hard to incorporate rational decisions, that it might be worth the risk. [00:43:22]
THERAPIST: Do you have any worries on how I would hurt you?
CLIENT: Mostly just with ideas that aren't what's actually best for me. And the counter argument to that is that you're not actually trying to tell me what to do. That's not the model of this. But then, there's my feeling that all communication is trying to tell people what to do, which just applies to every situation I could possibly be in, including this. [00:44:01]
And so it's not like I fear some sort of intentionality. It's just knowing that communication is inherently a clash of world views. It's like, "Well am I going to take the wrong thing out of this from a world view that might not be the best one for me?" And so I have this model that's not specifically related to this situation, which is just hard to shake.
THERAPIST: We can stop for now. We'll talk more next week.
CLIENT: Okay. (sighs) (inaudible at 00:44:40)
THERAPIST: I can.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: And I'll e-mail you about (inaudible at 00:44:47) on Friday, by Friday.
CLIENT: Okay. Cool. Bye.
THERAPIST: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
