Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are you doing today?
CLIENT: Kinda okay. I've been having a lot of breakdowns lately and then, and then having some feelings of like...(pause) I don't know if I'd call it depression, though, but like temporary, like lasting like I don't know an hour or whatever feelings of like wanting (sigh) to hurt myself with this anxious, uncomfortable feeling inside that even when I took the antianxiety medicine didn't go away...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...and I was like physically uncomfortable, hurting me, and I have no clue what to do at this point. Because like ya know there were the times that I was overreacting to things that happened, but then this also happened when I wasn't having anything to panic about. That I couldn't place where it was coming from or anything. So now I'm kinda scared.
THERAPIST: Mmm. Does feel scary. Especially when you don't know where it's coming from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you said it lasts for about an hour?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I know it's hard...you probably don't sit there with a stopwatch so it's hard sometimes to estimate. [00:01:03]
CLIENT: Sometimes more than that I guess. It...like it's never lasted for a whole afternoon or evening or anything like that.
THERAPIST: What makes it go away?
CLIENT: I don't even know. I guess it eventually wears off. I mean, when it was happening on Saturday I probably then ended up like going to sleep, taking a nap on Saturday afternoon, whatever, and then waking up and feeling better. Um, and like last night like I had Sydney like hug me really, really hard and that was like helping, but...still...yeah.
THERAPIST: What was it about the hug cuz you said it feels like a physical pain too?
CLIENT: I guess like the time like I had him hug me really, really, really hard (sniffs).
THERAPIST: And so that pressure feels good?
CLIENT: Oh yes, yeah. (pause) And thought like before yesterday it was like oh, well, maybe I haven't eaten enough today. I'll go downstairs and eat, and like I ate...well, I couldn't even finish my bowl of (inaudible)[00:02:06] that I heated up and I didn't take such a big bowl but I also like had milk to drink but even then after I did eat, whatever, my food like it didn't quite...like that didn't actually help, so...[ 00:02:20]
THERAPIST: Seems like you're so worn out and so overwhelmed that these symptoms are kind of popping back up that have been absent for a while.
CLIENT: Like does this mean my meds aren't working anymore?
THERAPIST: Not necessarily. Um, I mean it could mean that it's time for a medication change because maybe they're not working for you in the same way that they used to.
CLIENT: Okay, that's gonna be hard because like I thought that Wellbutrin is pretty much like the only antidepressant that isn't an SSRI and they thought that 450 mg was the highest dose that I can be on.
THERAPIST: Well, these are decisions for the psychiatrist to make, you know, so it might be scheduling your appointment to find out really if there are other options for you at this point.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um, do you have an appointment scheduled? Okay. So let's see if you can get an appointment scheduled to have it on the books and...
CLIENT: I'll try but it might end up being in a couple of months...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...in which case I don't know what to do.
THERAPIST: Well, in which case we work...we keep working until we can see what happens and this might...you know these episodes might dissipate before then. You know we might figure out other ways to manage the symptoms but you might as well have an...since it sometimes is hard to get an appointment right away...
CLIENT: Mm hmm. [00:03:48]
THERAPIST: ...let's have it on the books for checkup and followup anyway.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Ya know sometimes medications do lose a little bit of their effectiveness over time.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: But they don't generally just stop working. You know this is something you've been on a while and it's been working for a long time, so it's unlikely that all of a sudden it's just not going to have any effect on you any more ya know, but sometimes people do kind of acclimate to the meds...
CLIENT: Be like build up a tolerance.
THERAPIST: Build up a tolerance.
CLIENT: But then if you're at the maximum dose like you can't really...[ 00:04:25]
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know if that's the case. It might be. It might not be, ya know.
CLIENT: I mean I was told that by like my, like an earlier psychiatrist, so I don't know if that's still true...
THERAPIST: Right, or if that's that particular psychiatrist's limit or if sometimes things change over time because there's more research and more experience with a particular med, so I don't know if that's a hard-and-fast rule. It might be. It might not be. Um, the only other thing is that, ya know, it might be that something else is going on and we just don't know. Ya know you said you couldn't put...couldn't identify a particular trigger for these, but maybe we just haven't figured it out and maybe when we do you'll have a little bit more control over it, um, and it might not be a medication issue at all, but clearly you've been increasingly uncomfortable the past couple weeks, whether it's the panic. Ya know two sessions ago the panic was really strong and now it sounds like, you know, the flip side of that, more of the depressive type symptoms, feeling sad and wanting escape is popping up. [00:05:36]
CLIENT: Like I didn't want to kill myself. I wanted to hurt myself.
THERAPIST: And that...okay, so that...
CLIENT: Where I wanted to like cut or something like that. Like I thought that would make the pain go away.
THERAPIST: What was the pain like? Tell me about the pain.
CLIENT: It was like a dull pain but it like wouldn't go away. It just felt like so wrong and uncomfortable and bad and I really...ya know I don't think it would have actually worked, but like in my mind I was convinced.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm, but you didn't know what else to do, so that's where your mind went.
CLIENT: Yeah. I knew. Even when I'm thinking it I knew that this wasn't healthy but I didn't know like what would make it go away that didn't involve hurting myself and like what if I hurt myself and what if it wasn't actually like permanently damaging or something, like, ya know?
THERAPIST: Did you act on that thought?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So somehow you were able to stop yourself from acting on it.
CLIENT: And part of that was like I was in bed and I didn't want to like get up and get dressed, and part of it is I have like a weird like fear of cutting. Like I couldn't...I had to be the lab partner who didn't do dissections in like high school, um, it just bothers me and like somehow I think like petting the cat and getting her pissed off at me and getting her to scratch me wouldn't really quite work in the same way. I mean that is one way to very much guarantee that you'll get cut...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...because she'll get annoyed actually if you do something even if she likes you, but, um, like it just seemed like there wasn't a good solution for something that I could do. I also had so much trouble falling asleep that night. Even with the antianxiety med I was, ya know. I ended up...I mean we tried to start going to bed at like 1:00, 1:15 and I went to bed around like 2:15 or something like that. [00:07:35]
THERAPIST: Is that pretty common for you right now?
CLIENT: No. Usually we end up going to bed around like midnight or something like that. And then it was later and then we were like....oh, I was like I should get some food and he came down with me and also got some food, so...ya know we were already staying up later than normal and, like there have been a couple nights that it's been lately me having a little bit of trouble going to sleep. Not as much as last night. [00:08:03]
THERAPIST: And have these sad episodes where you think about wanting to hurt herself, are they, have they been mostly at night?
CLIENT: Um....
THERAPIST: Or is there any pattern to when they're coming up?
CLIENT: I think they're more at night, but there have been some during the day too. Like Saturday afternoon I was feeling it and...yeah.
THERAPIST: How many have you had this week?
CLIENT: (pause) More than three, I think around five. I'm not sure really. They were mostly happening this weekend, so I didn't keep track of how many.
THERAPIST: Okay. I'm trying to get a sense.
CLIENT: At least...somewhere between three and five I think. But that's in the past like four days or past three days.
THERAPIST: So it's been pretty concentrated.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry you're having such a tough time. [00:09:15]
CLIENT: Well, (inaudible)[00:09:14] do you want those episodes if like taking the antianxiety pill doesn't work. Like what do I do? I haven't found a good solution.
THERAPIST: Well, there might not be a solution right now. Part of it might be, ya know, tolerating the distress. That coping is two things. Coping is—one - having some sort of mechanism to try to make it better. And the other side of coping is being able to tolerate a certain level of discomfort. And they balance each other because the better we get at tolerating discomfort, actually the less uncomfortable it becomes, right. But that's where it builds up over time because what we learn is that for the most part discomfort passes whether it's anxiety or panic, sadness, pain—emotional or physical. Generally these things kind of follow the Bell curve. It starts off generally at a lower level, rises and then fades off again.
CLIENT: Mm hmm. [00:10:24]
THERAPIST: And practicing being able to tolerate that distress, it reminds us every time that oh, it gets worse, then it gets better. And that makes it a little...just knowing, reminding yourself that it's going away...it's not going to stay like that forever, makes it easier to bear. I think what makes it so scary is when you're in the midst of something like that —whether it be a panic attack or this different type of discomfort that you had this past week —what makes it so scary is feeling like you don't know how to make it go away so then we start thinking what if it never goes away, what if it's always like this. And that's more scary than anything that's gonna last for just a short period of time, cuz for the most part we can handle anything for a short period of time.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: So if, you know, part of what you did the past couple of days when this happened is you got through it. You didn't necessarily know how to make it go away but you were able to get through it and it did go away, and that's actually, ya know, being able to tolerate the discomfort is a coping mechanism. It doesn't feel like a very active one, but it is one and you managed. Um, so I think, ya know, partly building that, being able to do that, that's part of the work.
CLIENT: Mm hmm. [00:11:43]
THERAPIST: You know other coping mechanisms it sounds like, ya know you came up with some things that worked. Getting a big hug, that emotional support; and maybe also that physical sensation helped. Ya know if he's not around maybe the idea of pressure is useful. That's not harming yourself...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...but sometimes just the physical sensation maybe grounds you a little bit, gets you grounded in another sensation and, um, sometimes you can get a sensation of pressure from doing something active because it's using your body...
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ...in the same way. So some people feel, ya know, find going out for a walk or a jog, just doing that kind of physical activity almost mimics the idea of pressure on your body. Jumping up and down puts a lot of pressure on your legs and distracts you. So that might be some...getting up and moving might be something that helps to distract you and just gives your body a little bit of physical stimulation.
CLIENT: There is a part of me at that point that did want to like go for a walk or something, but it was 2 o'clock in the morning and I was like...
THERAPIST: Right. That's not a...at that time that was not going to work, but...
CLIENT: And I guess I could have like found...well probably cuz my room is still sort of like not quite put together, but like inside I have like a yoga mat and I could have been like doing situps or something like that, but, um...
THERAPIST: Yeah, or maybe even doing like yoga poses or something that creates some sort of tension.
CLIENT: I don't do much yoga so much. I could theoretically look at all that stuff, but...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: We did yoga as like one of our rotations in gym in high school, so I...that is like pretty much all of my exposure to yoga.
THERAPIST: Okay, so I mean something you're more comfortable with. Something like situps or something would create...
CLIENT: (Sighs).
THERAPIST: ...creates muscle tension right there doing something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just, there seems to be no space...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...and I couldn't really leave the room cuz I wasn't exactly dressed so...even if no one was on that side of the house at that point, that wouldn't have felt comfortable. It would have been awkward if someone had come in, so I...yeah. (pause) I don't know. Maybe it isn't a lack of exercise and like the thought that I haven't been as good about taking the vitamin B and the vitamin D and I haven't been as good about the sun lamp. I mean the sun lamp is like...well, it's actually been nice out.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like, we never had winter. We had like two snowstorms that both cleared up the next day.
THERAPIST: Well, we didn't have...absolutely right in that. We didn't have much winter weather, but the sunlight, lack of sunlight is the same whether it's warm or cold.
CLIENT: Well, yes...
THERAPIST: It feels a lot more tolerable.
CLIENT: But, I mean even when the days were shorter like they were sunny days. They weren't like cloudy or overcast days so I was still getting more sunlight than I....
THERAPIST: Well, maybe you'd been getting out more then too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So about the sunlight thing you would have had it been snowy and slushy and freezing cold all the time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you may have gotten, you're right you may have gotten more light this winter than you usually do, but this time of year we are getting access to a lot more light, so not using the sun lamp probably isn't affecting you that much right now.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:14:54]
THERAPIST: But the exercise, and you did really notice some difference when you started the vitamins, and those might be...well, it's something you mentioned to me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it, ya know, it stood out to you at the time. So those might be things that are kind of coping mechanisms to put back in place...
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: ...knowing that you feel a little bit more fragile right now than you usually do.
CLIENT: Like all I need to do is, cuz like the thing is like I've often been in Sydney' place and I have like almost everything at both of our places, like other than like I only have one packet of birth control pills because I don't want to keep, like lose track of where I am, so that I have to like keep in my backpack where I go, and like the vitamin like B and D like didn't feel as important, so I didn't feel like oh, I should get a thing of vitamin B and a thing of vitamin D to keep at Sydney' place, so I haven't been taking them as much, but I really should. It's not like it's that expensive and I'll go through it eventually. [00:15:49]
THERAPIST: Mmm, yeah. Yeah, it's I mean...I know that when you started that it was something you mentioned to me as having noticed an effect, um...
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ...and you know why...I know it's not really a controlled experiment because it's not like, ya know, you only changed one thing at a time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It was enough that maybe it did really give you some relief and so maybe doubling up so that you can keep it really consistent...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...at both places because it does seem like you are more sensitive right now.
CLIENT: Yeah. We need to go to the drugstore anyway today, so it's not like we're making an extra trip, so...yeah. I mean hopefully that will help. I have no idea if it actually will, though. And that's the problem because like, ya know, I don't know until I try it out, so I don't know how long it will take.
THERAPIST: What were your thoughts like during those times? [00:16:49]
CLIENT: (pause) Mostly trying to figure out what the heck was going wrong with me and why was I feeling like this and make it go away, and wanting to hurt myself, but like, ya know, even when I trying to figure out ways of like causing myself pain without like causing myself damage, like ya know, Sydney was with me the entire time because he didn't want me to like even do that, but I was like but I'm not gonna like actually hurt myself.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: I mean he didn't want to see me hurting myself (inaudible) [00:17:18]. I told him that like...I mean cuz also I could have easily like went off somewhere else, like on to the bathroom and like done something to hurt myself and not told him but I told him that like if I were gonna do something I would tell him so that way he doesn't have to constantly worry about me going around and doing something to hurt myself without telling him, but...[ 00:17:43]
THERAPIST: What do you imagine it would be like for you to watch him go through something like that? To hear him say that?
CLIENT: It would be very...I mean I was like watching him go through other things, so...like he didn't want to hurt himself but he was more like thinking like ya got...cuz like he's still not completely stable with his meds and stuff cuz he hasn't been on them that long, so he was...like yesterday he was all like, ya know, I shouldn't have a life of my own and maybe my parents are right and I should go back to Alabama and (inaudible) [00:18:12] etcetera, etcetera, etcetera...everyone (inaudible)[ 00:18:15], I'm doing everything wrong, and I had to be like, uh, if your parents are actually saying that, your parents are gits, cuz everybody deserves a life of their own, and I mean that was very painful to go through. [00:18:34]
THERAPIST: Mmm...yeah it's hard to watch someone you care about be in that kind of pain.
CLIENT: But like I think, I mean but him saying like he wants me to be honest about my feelings, so like he doesn't want me to hide that from him, so, like the most respectful thing I can do is tell him and just not hurt myself even though I really...want to when I get in that state (sighs) (pause).
THERAPIST: What do you think hurting yourself would do?
CLIENT: Makes the other pain go away...at least that's what my brain leads me to believe. I don't know that's true but (pause) that's what the urge feels like...
THERAPIST: That's what the urge feels like.
CLIENT: ...so (inaudible) [00:19:33] like in...like I've never actually really tried hurting myself before, so I don't actually know, but I mean I guess that's why people like cut themselves, like, because they have feelings like I was feeling.
THERAPIST: Yeah and they imagine it's gonna provide a relief.
CLIENT: And I just happen to have an aversion to cutting, which I guess is really good but..
THERAPIST: Mm hmm, but that's a pretty healthy aversion. Keeps ya safe.
CLIENT: It also meant that I could never really go into medicine or anything cuz I never wanted to deal with a cadaver or something, but that's okay cuz I didn't really want to go into medicine in the first place. But like I don't think everybody has that aversion in the same way that I do, like (pause) I really (pause). ya know it's fine when like I know if I'm cutting like meat or something like that, like, but like cutting the skin of like an intact person or animal or something like that is, just really grosses me out and like I have this weird gut reaction against it so...like I knew that I couldn't really cut myself.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: And...
THERAPIST: It seems like in this case your aversion's working for you. It's keeping you safe.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: The problem with cutting is that there's often mistakes, infection, scarring.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Unanticipated, unintended often.
CLIENT: I mean the scarring isn't so bad, but the other two are, but like, like I would expect there to be scars, like (pause) right?
THERAPIST: Mmm, yes.
CLIENT: Like of course there would be scars and if you don't think there are going to be scars then you're clearly not thinking things through, but, um...[ 00:21:23]
THERAPIST: They're only thinking short term. I think that's...the urge is to want to make the pain go away in the short term, but it's not just a short-term pain.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like if you could do it in a way that wasn't like gonna get infected or something like that, like I mean hey, like back in the old days they used to think that bloodletting was like proper medicine.
THERAPIST: That's true.
CLIENT: Then again lots of people died back in the old days...
THERAPIST: We don't think that any more (chuckles) I mean, yeah. Evidence to the contrary.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean like lots of people like do it in like high school and stuff and survive and I mean it's not healthy but like (pause), like there's a part of me that wish I didn't have that aversion because like okay it's helping me in the long run but it isn't helping the short term I feel this pain and make it go away. (sighs) I think it's also like if people are in high school or something like you know they can cut on their arms or their legs and like wear long sleeves or pants or whatever but like, ya know, there's no way I could do that and then hide it from Sydney, like could not do that. And I don't really want to. [00:22:48]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I don't think it solves anything.
CLIENT: Does it make the people feel better who have those urges to cut themselves?
THERAPIST: For a short period of time. People generally describe, people who engage in self-harm behavior, is that it does provide some sense of relief in the moment, but that relief is very short-lived and often replaced with not only the same feelings that prompted the self-harm but then also on top of that generally people feel some sort of shame or guilt or have other secondary problems, um, from that. Ya know feeling badly because they're hiding it from people they love and people are worried about them, or feeling badly that people are worried about them because they haven't effectively hidden it, and so there's a whole host of other feelings that generally come along with using a coping mechanism like that that's not really a healthy one. It's self-harming as an attempt at coping with the pain, but it brings along a whole host of other things that generally people don't feel good about. And so you have...[ 00:24:06]
CLIENT: Why does that urge even make sense. Like it seems so like counter-evolutionary. It makes no sense.
THERAPIST: It doesn't seem to at all.
CLIENT: Ya know know like if it were true that like you need to take the bad blood out and like that were actually how medicine worked then it would make sense but...
THERAPIST: Yeah, it doesn't seem...
CLIENT: It isn't how medicine works. Like it's just like, I guess it's ya know a big sign like that my brain isn't working properly any more.
THERAPIST: Well, I think it's sort of like, ya know like evolutionary instinct that doesn't work anymore because the instinct to try to stop pain is a good one...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...right? And maybe it's one of these things that, ya know, we feel types of pain now...
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ...that perhaps didn't exist back then and so that instinct to avoid pain is still a good one, but because our world has changed so much and the pressures of our world have changed so much, that we're experiencing pains that there aren't good evolutionary, um, behaviors for. Way back when, when the only needs that people needed to meet were find food, find shelter, there wasn't a whole lot of time for existential angst.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: And there may be a set of complicated emotions that we deal with now that we didn't deal with back then because the, um, the responsibilities and things like that are different. You're being asked to do things beyond finding shelter and finding food and you deal with a complicated set of emotions. You feel lots of guilt from your parents. You feel a lot of resentment. I don't know that these are things that our ancestors dealt with all the time.
CLIENT: Why, why, why is this urge to flee pain? Why does it then go to cause more pain in order to get rid of pain?
THERAPIST: That I don't know.
CLIENT: Like how did that come to be? It makes no sense. It really makes no sense.
THERAPIST: That's a really good question, Georgia, and I don't have an answer. [00:26:22]
CLIENT: There's no like psychiatric like, or psychological theory on it?
THERAPIST: There's some theories, um, but we don't necessarily know that they're right. I mean a lot of what people think about is that sometimes...a lot of times someone's instinct to self-harm is in response to more emotional kind of pain that seems more ambiguous and amorphous, um, and having something that's very visible, that's very easy to understand. You know why a cut on your arm hurts. That seems straightforward to us.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Um, so having that sort of congruence between what you can see on your skin and the sensation that you're feeling is less complicated than some of the other types of pain that we have, whether it's feeling really sad and not knowing why, it's a difficult feeling to have and that can be that pressure in your chest can often be associated with feeling really sad. It's confusing to us to not know why we feel a certain thing, and so it might feel less badly to have a pain that you know exactly why you feel it, cuz it doesn't have that confusion. So that's some of the theory behind what might lead someone to self-harm. That at least it makes it concrete, easily understandable, seems to make sense, so the confusion's taken away, um...there's also, um, some physiological reaction to physically harming yourself. When we feel pain, we feel physical pain, our bodies release endorphins and adrenalin to counteract that automatically, um, and so sometimes that helps us actually not feel something that we would think would be very painful but because our body automatically starts to produce some hormones, it kind of protects us from feeling that pain, and that can feel, ya know, almost pleasurable. The relief, or release of that can almost feel pleasurable. You don't have that same thing kick in necessarily with emotional pain. [00:28:43]
CLIENT: So I guess if I did go run and exercise and stuff that would like have the same effect because then it would release the endorphins without hurting myself?
THERAPIST: That is one of the reasons that exercise can be really useful, because it does kick-start some of the same types of endorphins, um, that help make us feel good when we feel good hormones.
CLIENT: But the problem is now I'm starting to feel like lethargic and like it makes it harder to want to exercise.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's hard to kick-start that, but you will feel the benefit if you can do it and if you can get yourself motivated to get moving.
CLIENT: Like I intended to walk here today but then I like looked on the next bus and it was like the bus is coming in two minutes and I was already feeling like a little tired. I'm like okay, I'll just take the bus.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. It's hard to get out of that cycle.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean at least I walked down to catch the bus so it wasn't like right outside my house, but that was like a three-minute walk and not like a 30-minute walk or something that I need. And that's why I purposely like didn't carry much today like, it was like I'm gonna walk this and I'm going to do it but then it was like...and part of that is like I had a late breakfast. I haven't had lunch yet and I'm already feeling hungry and like okay, well, I guess maybe I can exercise after I eat, but...yeah. (pause) I guess the benefit of being unemployed now is that I can theoretically most of the time just drop something and go for a walk or whatever.
THERAPIST: Schedule it into your day.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean create some structure which I think might also be helpful. Right now you have a lot of flexibility in your schedule, which means a lot of unstructured time to think and feel. And sometimes thinking and feeling are useful but when it's undirected and your thoughts tend to wander toward things that are uncomfortable, those don't feel good and it leaves you reacting to thoughts that are sometimes really hopeless in nature, leave you feeling out of control or trapped, and those are really hard feelings to sit with.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:31:10]
THERAPIST: Cuz having a lot of unstructured time is not the healthiest schedule for you. Which isn't unusual and it doesn't make you strange of abnormal. Most people do better when they have more directed time. Ya know, unless all those directed things are things they don't like, but...
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) So I could particularly just get up and like just write more cover letters and stuff and then I'll have structure again, but...
THERAPIST: You can get yourself into a routine of having consistency with when you get up, what you do. You're not filling all that time with writing cover letters, but...
CLIENT: It's a little bit harder when I'm like, well like I'm still...I moved almost all of the furniture except for one small bookcase into my new room, but like I don't have it set up and I still have some odds and ends, so like there's plus all the Passover stuff, so like that makes the schedule not quite something I can normalize yet. Once I'm done with that. Like this week I will have to be done with koshering for Passover because...
THERAPIST: It will be here.
CLIENT: It will be here, yeah, so yeah until I do that like, ya know...and then I'll get into modes where I really am feeling like cleaning all the things. And like what I was feeling was panicky last night. I'm like well what if I like, ya know, put on some clothes and went downstairs and like set some yarn stuff up and started like soaking some wool and then I could dye it tomorrow and then I'm like no, I'm not gonna actually do that, but...I don't know if that would have actually made me feel better when I was like getting these urges and like it's two in the morning. I should be going to bed.
THERAPIST: Yeah, probably the healthier thing for you.
CLIENT: And I could not sleep, and like...ya know and there were some points where I like wasn't feeling hungry and I'm like I should eat because I haven't had enough calories or whatever, and then there's a part of me that's like well I need to lose weight anyways, why don't I use these like feelings of depression to like lose weight if I'm already feeling depressed, like, which doesn't make that much sense, but like it's not being most unhealthy. If I'm not starving myself. I'm just eating less, but it's not something that's sustainable. (pause) Could have got this feeling when it wasn't 2 A.M. Then I could have went for a walk, but...
THERAPIST: Right. But you can't do that at 2 A.M.
CLIENT: ...like I guess if Sydney had been like not wanting to fall asleep either and had been willing to come with me then I could have done it. [00:34:18]
THERAPIST: Well, I think taking a walk, getting some physical exercise is one coping mechanism, but it needs to be at a time when, ya know, that's the only thing that you can do, and it needs to be at a time when that's a safe choice.
CLIENT: Well, it would be...he's a big guy. He's 6 feet tall and he's like pretty broad too. Like he, he, he...nobody's gonna mess with him at 2 o'clock in the morning, and so if I were with him it actually would be perfectly safe. Might not be the best idea in the world, but like I would be...I think I'd be totally safe. And yeah, I guess that wouldn't stop someone from having a gun but like, ya know, even people with guns would rather take on like easier targets, so, yeah it wouldn't have been the best choice in the world but it would have been at least somewhat feasible. Of course if I were to go off and do that by myself, yeah. And we don't have like any sort of like elliptical machine or exercise bike or treadmill in my house and I don't know if we have space...
THERAPIST: Would taking a shower or doing something like that, would that help to distract you and get through the moment? [00:35:37]
CLIENT: I don't know that a shower would. I don't know if a shower would actually make me feel better. I haven't really tried, but like it wouldn't really get rid of the urge to like do something and get...like a shower doesn't like release endorphins. It just makes you feel nice and clean, and, ya know, it's good for like relaxing but then again so are antianxiety pills, and if the antianxiety pills won't work, I don't think a shower would work either, like (pause) it just doesn't seem like the right kind of solution. It'd be like if I were having this craving for ice cream it'd be like here, have a salad (chuckles) ya know. Vaguely helpful but not really. (pause) Or something that like...it's like if a shower would fix it, so would the antianxiety pills and the antianxiety pills...[ [00:36:37] ]
THERAPIST: Didn't work.
CLIENT: ...didn't work.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think some people find it helpful because it's doing something. It's seems to be a little bit distracting. Whereas taking a pill, yes you get the effect of medicine but it doesn't give you that like 15 minutes of doing something. Where sometimes getting in the shower, going through the routine of washing your hair, washing your body can be enough of a distraction to just kind of get through what probably is the worst of the moment and the thoughts.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But everybody responds differently and if it feels like that's not something that would helpful to you...
CLIENT: It's not like it's doing something productive. Ya know if I feel like if I took a shower at 2 A.M. I still would probably feel like taking a shower when I woke up the next morning...
THERAPIST: Probably.
CLIENT: ...so it would just be a superficial shower.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. It would be a coping shower, not a getting-ready-for-the-day shower.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which makes it seem less effective. I could be wrong, but like it just didn't seem the kind of thing that like I thought would help.
THERAPIST: And it doesn't sound like it strikes you as a...as a potential coping mechanism.
CLIENT: Well, I could try knitting or something, like that is something I could do at 2 A.M. and like the worst...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...yeah if like Sydney falls asleep I could like get up and get dressed and go to a different room of the house because there are plenty of rooms in the house (sighs).
THERAPIST: And that might be something we can try. [00:38:07]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I've met other clients who knit and spin like you do and they sometimes find the repetitive motion, um, sort of meditative. Ya know kind of having a specific set of steps that they're following helps to keep their mind off of worries and thoughts and just, ya know, whether it be, ya know, the repetition of the motions of knitting or the repetition of the process of spinning, um...I have someone who weaves a loom, that just the monotony of it is kind of relaxing and almost helps them to enter a meditative state, so that might be something that you could try as well.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And, ya know, there's no...no one's harmed by that. Nothing's, nothing's wasted. You're just...(pause)
CLIENT: Though even if it's like 2 o'clock in the morning? Like I guess I mean...and, and I like this morning I woke up at 10, so...
THERAPIST: Well likely...likely it will pass more quickly if you're able to help yourself in these ways and you're not gonna fall asleep in the midst of feeling that way anyway...
CLIENT: That's true. [00:39:35]
THERAPIST: ...so helping yourself through it so that you can get to a peaceful state...
CLIENT: Mm hmm. (pause)
THERAPIST: What we want to avoid is dwelling on the thoughts and feelings associated with it, which might exacerbate it and make it last longer and feel more dire. Really our job is to help you get through it as fast as possible, and sometimes that's being able to sit with it until it passes and sometimes there may be something that you can do to help ease it. (pause)
CLIENT: I guess I'll see what happens the next time cuz I'm...really cuz I'm pretty sure it will happen again, like.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I hope not but...
CLIENT: (Sighs).
THERAPIST: ...but there is certainly the likelihood that it could pop up again.
CLIENT: Also because I haven't been exercising regularly. It's just, oh because then I'm so tired and lethargic now and it feels like, ya know, the most overwhelming thing ever, cuz like normally I would like, ya know, even if rehearsal were like ridiculously late at night, if I weren't walking home from rehearsal I'd still walk to rehearsal, and I'm not even doing that. I mean like walking to rehearsal is like getting in a half-hour walk.
THERAPIST: Well, let's see if we can, um, maybe ease you into it a little bit, cuz it sounds like it does feel intimidating because you haven't been feeling very enthused or energetic about it, so is there a way to walk part way home today? Like could you pick up a different bus than you normally would so that you get a little bit of the walk but not the whole thing if it feels so overwhelming?
CLIENT: Not today because I have to mail two giant packages so Sydney is picking me up so I can put them in the...bring them to the...
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Yeah (laughs), post office cuz they were kind of...well one was small and one was 1 pound and 11 ounces so I couldn't just put it in the mailbox and I didn't want to have to carry it, so...I can't walk there today. I might be able to walk somewhere else today but...yeah. (pause) And Sydney wants to exercise too, so we could like...
THERAPIST: Well, maybe you could take a walk together. [00:42:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. And like he wants to go shopping so I guess what we could do is if we were going to the book store like park somewhere far away from the book store and...
THERAPIST: There's a good idea.
CLIENT: ...walk there and walk back. (pause) Then I'm back in like wanting-to-do-all-the things mode. Feel like that I don't know how long that will actually last.
THERAPIST: Take advantage of it while it's here, because I think doing things will actually make it...make you want to do them more.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's getting started can be really hard and it can feel intimidating, but once you get started it tends to be easier to keep that going. Especially if you get some benefit from it.
CLIENT: It just feels like I'm like destroying my body or something by like not exercising for this long. I mean I know I haven't really destroyed my body. Even when I was in Israel I was like, ya know we didn't do that much walking cuz there were lots of old people on the trip and the trip was meant for people of all ages, but like when we were walking, wherever we were walking I was always like in the front walking faster than everyone else, and like when I was like took the day away from the group and I like spent it in Jerusalem I was like, ya know, I walked all over downtown Jerusalem for like a good hour and didn't really stop that much, so it's not like...
THERAPIST: Your body may have gotten a little out of practice but you can get right back into it.
CLIENT: I just...do it while carrying as little...as few things as possible so that way...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...it's not like I'm...
THERAPIST: It's better for you not to, ya know, but if you can't make it...it doesn't have to be perfect to be useful. If there are days when you can't do, do it exactly how you would want to that doesn't mean that you can't do it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I could walk...like I could at least go back to like walking down the road and then taking the 1 bus from there to rehearsal and that way I'm like, ya know, getting at least a 10-minute walk and even if I'm not getting in a 30-minute walk. [00:44:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah, these are good thoughts to have. This is being able to find the flexibility of finding things that you can do.
CLIENT: Yeah. Something like that. I feel so out of shape. I don't think I've ever felt this out of shape before, like...or maybe it's just because I wasn't in shape before that, so...
THERAPIST: So you noticed the difference cuz you haven't been...you had been doing lots of walking before.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm used to being able to walk faster than everyone and even now like I do walk faster than Sydney does and he's 6 feet tall.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) He can take much longer steps than you can.
CLIENT: Yeah, he is a foot...over a foot taller than me and I walk like just as fast or faster than him, so like I still have the ability to walk fast. I guess I just don't have the ability to walk fast for long periods.
THERAPIST: And you can build that back up but you don't have to start where you were before. Any...and remember when we started trying to get you to find more ways to be active, we started with little steps of, ya know can you just move a little more. Can you just extend this and take the stairs sometimes. We looked for little ways that you could add stuff in and you just added on to that. Taking really long walks. So start back where you were before, not where you left off. Just looking at ya know like, like you just said. You came up with the idea of well I guess I could walk to the street and then take the bus from there, taking the train from there. Little ways to add it back in, and you'll build back up to where you were before pretty quickly I bet.
CLIENT: Like I have to get that ability back soon or at least...well I guess tons of breaks if I have to because like on Sunday, like it's still the holiday part of Passover, I can't take public transportation. It ends at like 8:01 P.M. on Sunday night. Sunday day is this gaming conference that me and Sydney are going to. It is in downtown. It's about an hour and a half walk. We are walking there because...I mean I was totally okay with me walking there and he like taking the train or something, but he doesn't want me to...he was like, ya know, would feel guilty about having me just walk by myself even though it's like, ya know, early in the morning, so I'm going to be getting a really long walk in.
THERAPIST: And you're gonna want to plan some time to stop for breaks since you haven't done that kind of a trek for a bit. [00:46:50]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then before, like me and Ione would like walk for an hour, an hour and a half. It was like nothing.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I bet you can do it, but just plan to give yourself a little extra time if you want to stop and take a break or if you want to go slower, but I bet you'll surprise yourself once you get going. You're body hasn't been ruined. Your body hasn't forgotten how to do this.
CLIENT: The problem is like I'm not carrying nothing because like if nothing else because it's Passover there's not gonna be any...even if I were fine like spending money, there's not gonna to be anything there that I would be able to eat so I have to like bring food...
THERAPIST: But you can do that. That can't be that heavy.
CLIENT: Or I can make Sydney carry it because like every time I think that a bag is heavy, he thinks it's light and...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...so therefore I'm going to make him carry it because he doesn't think things are heavy when I do.
THERAPIST: Well, he's got a lot more mass to spread it over it sounds like.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, why don't you give some of these...these things a try and hopefully they will help. And if you have another one of these episodes just remind yourself that they do end and hopefully that will make it a little bit easier to sit through it. That this is not a sign that, ya know, you're not going crazy. It's not a sign that something is permanently wrong. I think you are more fragile right now than you usually are, so that's showing up in different ways, but that fragility is something that, ya know, can be helped. You've been under lots of stress for a pretty long period of time, that they are external stressors that, ya know, you don't know when they're gonna end, but they are temporary. You will eventually find a job. You will eventually feel much better about the money situation because of that. We don't know when that's gonna happen, but it's not gonna be forever and I think that that's a lot of what...a lot of the stress that you're carrying right now.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: And I wish I could tell you, ya know, that there's...what the foreseeable end of that stress would be but you know full well that I can't tell you that kind of thing and you don't know when that's gonna end. Nobody knows. And that uncertainty is hard too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today and have our normal time next week.
[End of transcript 00:49:21]
END TRANSCRIPT
