<font size="4"><b>5: Hard Issues and Soft Spots: Counseling Men About Sexuality</b></font>
[p. <i>83</i>]

<b>Jeffrey C. Fracher
Michael S. Kimmel</b>


Nothing shows more clearly the extent to which modern society has atomized
itself than the isolation in sexual ignorance which exists among us.... Many
cultures, the most primitive and the most complex, have entertained sexual
fears of an irrational sort, but probably our culture is unique in strictly
isolating the individual in the fears that society has devised. (Trilling, 1954)


Sam is a 28-year-old white, single factory worker. He lives alone in a
two-family home that he owns, and attends night school at a community
college.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_785');">[note]</a><div id="_note_785" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">1 The names of the individual patients have been changed.</div>
The third of six sons in a blue-collar, Eastern European Catholic
family, Sam is a conscientious, hard-working, and responsible man with
very traditional values. He describes himself as a sexual late-bloomer,
having begun dating only after graduation from an all-male Catholic high
school. Although strong and handsome, he has always lacked confidence
with women, and describes himself as male peer-oriented, actively involved
in sports, and spending much of his leisure time with "the boys."


Prior to his first sexual intercourse, two years ago at age 26, Sam had
fabricated stories to tell his friends so as not to appear inadequate. He felt a
great deal of shame and embarrassment that his public presentation of his
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_1606');">[note]</a><div id="_note_1606" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">Authors' Note: This chapter represents a full collaboration, and our names appear in
alphabetical order for convenience. Critical reactions from John Gagnon, Murray Scher, and
Mark Stevens have been very helpful.</div>

[p. <i>84</i>]

Joe is a 34-year-old CPA who has been married for three years. The
youngest of five children and the only male in a middle-class Irish-
American family, Joe feels his father had high expectations for him, and
exhibited only neutrality or criticism. Joe was without a male role model
who conveyed that it was OK to fail. In fact, he portrayed men as strong,
competent, without feelings, and without problems or failings, and believes
he can never live up to the image his father had for him. Consequently, Joe
is terrified that failure to please a woman sexually may result in criticism
that will challenge his masculinity; he will not be a "real man." Anticipating
this criticism from his wife, his sexual interest is reduced.


When first seen in therapy, Joe evidenced a total lack of sexual interest
in his wife, but a high degree of sexual interest involving sexual fantasies,
pornography, and masturbation. He said "lust is an obsession with me,"
indicating a high sex drive when sex is anonymous, and though he felt
sexually inadequate with his wife, he felt sexually potent with women he
devalues, such as prostitutes. He could not understand his almost total lack
of sexual interest in his wife.


Bill is a 52-year-old engineer, who has been married for 25 years. From a
white, middle-class Protestant background, he has one grown child, and
initially came to treatment upon referral from a urologist. He had seen
numerous physicians after experiencing erectile dysfunction three years
ago, and has actively sought a physical explanation for it.


Bill's wife, Ann, was quite vocal about her disappointment in his failure
to perform sexually. Bill had always been the sexual initiator, and Ann had
come to expect that he should be in charge. Both believed that the only
"real sex" is intercourse with an erect penis. Ann frequently commented
that she felt "emotionally empty" without intercourse, thereby adding to
his sense of inadequacy. The loss of his capacity for erection, Bill told the
therapist, meant that he had lost his masculinity, and he worried openly
about displeasing Ann and her possibly leaving him.

[p. <i>85</i>]

His fear of lost masculinity spilled over into his job performance, and he
became depressed and withdrew from social activities. Bill was unaware
that as an older man, he required more direct penile stimulation for an
erection, since he had never required it in the past, and was unable to ask
for it from Ann. He felt that a "real man never has to ask his wife for
anything sexually," and should be able to perform without her help. The
pattern of erectile dysfunction was part of a broader pattern of inability to
tolerate failure, and he had begun to lose self-confidence since his
masculinity was almost entirely predicated upon erectile functioning.
"Nothing else matters," he confided, if his masculinity (evidenced by a
functional erection) was not present. Everything was suddenly on the line—
his self-worth, his marriage, and his career—if he proved unable to correct
his problem.


Sam, Joe, and Bill manifest the three most common sexual complaints
of men seeking therapy. But underlying premature ejaculation, inhibited
sexual desire, and erectile dysfunction is a common thread, binding these
and other sexual problems together. Each fears that his sexual problem
damages his sense of masculinity, makes him less of a "real man." In a
sense, we might say that all three men "suffer" from masculinity.


This chapter will explore how gender becomes one of the key organizing
principles of male sexuality, informing and structuring men's sexual
experiences. It will discuss how both gender and sexuality are socially
constructed, and how therapeutic strategies to help men deal with sexual
problems can raise issues of gender identity. This is especially important, of
course, since so many therapeutic interventions rely on a diagnostic model
that is simultaneously overly individualistic (in that it locates the source of
the problem entirely within the individual) and transhistorical (in that it
assumes that all cultures exhibit similar patterns at all times). The chapter
combines a comparative and historical understanding of how both gender
and sexuality are socially constructed with a psychoanalytic understanding
of the transformative possibilities contained within the therapeutic relationship.
This combination will lead us to discuss both social and therapeutic
interventions that might facilitate healthier sexual expression for men.


<b>The Social Construction
of Sexuality and Masculinity</b>


Sexuality is socially constructed, a
learned set of both behaviors and cognitive interpretations of those
behaviors. Sexuality is less the product of biological drives than of a
socialization process, and this socialization process is specific to any
culture at any particular time. This means that "social roles are not vehicles
for the expression of sexual impulse but that sexuality becomes a vehicle

[p. <i>86</i>]

In any given society, at any given moment, people become sexual in the same
way as they become everything else. Without much reflection, they pick up
directions from their social environment. They acquire and assemble
meanings, skills and values from the people around them. Their critical
choices are often made by going along and drifting. People learn when they
are quite young a few of the things that they are expected to be, and continue
slowly to accumulate a belief in who they are and ought to be through the rest
of childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. Sexual conduct is learned in the
same ways and through the same processes; it is acquired and assembled in
human interaction, judged and performed in specific cultural and historical
worlds.


If sexuality is socially constructed, perhaps the most significant element
of the construction—the foundation upon which we construct our
sexuality—is gender. For men, the notion of masculinity, the cultural
definition of manhood, serves as the primary building block of sexuality. It
is through our understanding of masculinity that we construct a sexuality,
and it is through our sexualities that we confirm the successful construction
of our gender identity. Gender informs sexuality; sexuality confirms
gender. Thus men have much at stake when they confront a sexual
problem: They risk their self-image as men.


Like sexuality, gender in general, and masculinity in particular, is
socially constructed; that is, what we understand to be masculine varies
from culture to culture, over historical time within any one culture, and
over the course of any one person's life within any culture. What we
consider masculine or feminine in our culture is also not the result of some
biological imperative, not some religious requirement, but a socially
organized mode of behavior. What is masculine is not set in stone, but

[p. <i>87</i>]

The assertion of the social construction of sexuality and gender leads
naturally to two related questions. First, we need to specify precisely the
dimensions of masculinity within contemporary American culture. How is
masculinity organized as a normative set of behaviors and attitudes?
Second, we need to specify precisely the ways in which this socially
constructed gender identity informs male sexual development. How is
masculinity expressed through sexuality?


Brannon and David's (1976, p.; 12) summary of the normative structure
of contemporary American masculinity is relevant here. Masculinity
requires the avoidance and repudiation of all behaviors that are even
remotely associated with femininity ("no sissy stuff"); this requires a
ceaseless patrolling of one's boundaries, an incessant surveillance of one's
performances to ensure that one is sufficiently male. Men must be "big
wheels" since success and status are key determinants of masculinity, and
they must be "sturdy oaks," exuding a manly air of self-confidence,
toughness, and self-reliance, as well as reliability. Men must "give 'em hell,"
presenting an aura of aggression and daring, and attitude of constantly
"going for it."


The normative organization of masculinity has been verified empirically
(see Thompson &amp; Pleck, 1986) and has obviously important implications
for male sexuality. In a sense, sexuality is the location of the enactment of
masculinity; sexuality allows the expression of masculinity. Male sexual
socialization informs men that sexuality is the proving ground of adequate
gender identity, and provides the script that men will adopt, with individual
modification, as the foundation for sexual activity.


In a sense, when we examine the normative sexuality that is constructed
from the typical organization of masculinity, it is not so much sexual
problems that are of interest, but the problematization of "normal"
sexuality, understanding perhaps the pathological elements within normal
sexual functioning. This allows us to bridge the chasm between men who
experience sexual dysfunction and those who, ostensibly, do not, and
explore how men array themselves along a continuum of sexual expressions.
Because masculinity provides the basic framework of sexual
organization, and because masculinity requires adherence to certain rules

[p. <i>88</i>]

The social construction of male sexuality raises a crucial theoretical
issue. In the past, both social science research and clinical practice were
informed by a model of discrete dichotomies. Categories for analysis
implied a dualistic worldview in which a phenomenon was classified as
either X or Y. Thus one was either male or female, heterosexual or
homosexual, normal or pathological. Since the pioneering studies of
Alfred Kinsey and his associates (see Kinsey, Pomeroy, &amp; Martin, 1948;
Kinsey &amp; Gebhard, 1954), however, this traditional model of mutually
exclusive dichotomous variables has given way to a model of a continuum
of behaviors along which individuals array themselves. The continuum
model allows individuals to reposition themselves at different moments in
the life course, and it allows the researcher or clinician a point of entry into
a relationship with the behaviors being discussed. The people we study and
the people we counsel are less some curious "other" and more a variation
on a set of behaviors that we ourselves embody as well. The articulation of
the continuum model also requires that the level of analysis of any behavior
include a social analysis of the context for behavior and the social
construction of definitions of normality. It thus permits a truly <i>social</i>
psychology.


<b>The Male Sexual Script</b>


Male sexual socialization teaches
young men that sex is secret, morally wrong, and pleasurable. The
association of sexual pleasure with feelings of guilt and shame is articulated
early in the young boy's development, and reinforced throughout the life
course by family, school, religion, and media images of sexuality. Young
males are instructed, in locker rooms and playgrounds, to detach their
emotions from sexual expression. In early masturbatory experience, the
logic of detachment accommodates the twin demands of sexual pleasuring
and guilt and shame. Later, detachment serves the "healthy" heterosexual
male by permitting delay of orgasm in order to please his sexual partner,
and serves the "healthy" homosexual male by permitting numerous sexual
partners without cluttering up the scene with unpleasant emotional
connection. (We will return to an exploration of the similarities between
heterosexual and homosexual male sexuality below.)


Detachment requires a self-objectification, a distancing from one's self,
and the development of a "secret sexual self" that performs sexual acts

[p. <i>89</i>]

Men's earliest forays into sexuality, especially masturbation, are the first
location of sexual anxiety. Masturbation teaches young men that sexuality
is about the detachment of emotions from sex, that sex is important in itself.
Second, men learn that sex is something covert, to be hidden; that is, men
learn to privatize sexual experience, without skills to share the experience.
And masturbation also teaches men that sexuality is phallocentric, that the
penis is the center of the sexual universe. Finally, the tools of masturbation,
especially sexual fantasy, teach men to objectify the self, to separate the self
from the body, to focus on parts of bodies and not whole beings, often to
speak of one's self in the third person.


Adolescent sexual socialization reinforces these behavioral demands
that govern male sexuality. Passivity is absolutely forbidden, and the
young male must attempt to escalate the sexual element at all times. To do
otherwise is to avoid "giving 'em hell" and expose potential feminine
behaviors. This constant pressure for escalation derives from the phallocentric
component to male sexuality—"it only counts if I put it in," a student
told one of us. Since normative heterosexuality assigns to men the role of
"doer" and women the role of "gatekeeper, "determining the level of sexual
experience appropriate to any specific situation, this relentless pressure to
escalate prevents either the male or the female from experiencing the sexual
pleasure of any point along the continuum. No sooner does he "arrive" at a
particular sexual experience—touching her breast, for example, than he
begins strategizing the ways in which he can escalate, go further. To do less
would expose him as less than manly. The female instantly must determine
the limits of the encounter and devise the logistics that will prevent
escalation if those limits have been reached. Since both male and female
maintain a persistent orientation to the future (how to escalate and how to
prevent escalation), neither can experience the pleasure of the points en
route to full sexual intercourse. In fact, what men learn is that intercourse is
the appropriate end-point of any sexual encounter, and that only

[p. <i>90</i>]

Since the focus is entirely phallocentric and intercourse is the goal to be
achieved in adolescent sexual encounters, the stakes regarding sexual
performance are extremely high, and consequently so is the anxiety about
performance failure. Big wheels and sturdy oaks do not experience sexual
dysfunction.


This continuum of male sexual dysfunction—ranging from what we might
call the "normatively operative dysfunctional" to the cases of extreme
distress of men who present themselves for therapeutic intervention—is
reinforced in adult heterosexual relations as well. How do men maintain
the sexual distancing and objectification that they perceive is required for
healthy functioning? American comedian Woody Allen described, in his
night-club routines, a rather typical male strategy. After describing himself
as "a stud," Allen comments:


While making love, in an effort [pause] to prolong [pause] the moment of
ecstacy, I think of baseball players. All right, now you know. So the two of us
are making love violently, and she's digging it, so I figure I better start
thinking of baseball players pretty quickly. So I figure it's one out, and the
Giants are up. Mays lines a single to right. He takes second on a wild pitch.
Now she's digging her nails into my neck. I decide to pinch-hit for McCovey.
[pause for laughter] Alou pops out. Haller singles, Mays takes third. Now
I've got a first and third situation. Two outs and the Giants are behind by one
run. I don't know whether to squeeze or to steal. [pause for laughter] She's
been in the shower for ten minutes already. [pause] I can't tell you anymore,
this is too personal. [pause] The Giants won.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_23534');">[note]</a><div id="_note_23534" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">3. Woody Allen, the <i>Nightclub</i> Years, United Artists Records (1971). Used by permission.</div>


Readers may be struck by several themes—the imputation of violence, how
her pleasure leads to his decision to think of baseball players, the
requirement of victory in the baseball game, and the sexual innuendo
contained within the baseball language—but the text provides a startlingly
honest revelation of male sexual distancing. Here is a device that is so
successful at delaying ejaculation that the narrator is rendered utterly
unaware of his partner. "She's been in the shower for ten minutes already,"
Allen remarks, as if he's just noticed.


Much of peer sexual socialization consists of the conveying of these
strategic actions that the male can perform to make himself a more
adequate sexual partner. Men are often told to think of sports, work, or
some other nonsexual event, or to repeat multiplication tables or
mathematical formulas in order to avoid premature ejaculation. It's as if
sexual adequacy could be measured by time elapsed between penetration
and orgasm, and the sexual experience itself is transformed into an
endurance test in which pleasure, if present at all, is almost accidental.


The contemporary male sexual script—the normative construction of
sexuality—provides a continuum along which men array themselves for the

[p. <i>91</i>]

Although this chapter has concentrated on sexual disorders for
heterosexual men, this is not for analytic reasons, or from a sense of how
these problems might manifest differently for gay men. Quite the contrary,
in fact. Since gender identity is the key variable in understanding sexual
behaviors, we would argue that heterosexual and homosexual men have
more in common in regard to their sexuality than they evidence differences.
This is especially true since 1969, when the Stonewall riots in New York and
the subsequent emergence of the gay liberation movement led to the
possibility for gay men to recover and repair their "damaged" sense of
masculinity. Earlier gay men had been seen as "failed men," but the
emergence of the gay male "clone" particularly has dispelled that notion. In
the nation's gay "ghettos," gay men often enact a hypermasculine ethic,
complete with its attendant sexual scripting of distancing, phallocentrism,
objectification, and separation of emotion from physical sensation.
Another reason that heterosexual and homosexual men exhibit similar
gender-based sexual behaviors is that all boys are subject to an anticipatory
socialization toward heterosexuality, regardless of their eventual sexual
preference. There is no anticipatory socialization toward homosexuality in
this culture, so male gender socialization will be enacted with both male
and female sexual partners. Finally, we have not focused on gay men as a
specific group because to do so would require the marginalization of gay
men as a group separate from the normative script of male sexuality. Both
gay and straight men are men first, and both have "male sex."


<b>Therapeutic interventions</b>


Our analysis of the social context of
men's sexual problems makes it essential that therapeutic strategies remain
aware of a context larger than simple symptom remission. Treatment must
also challenge the myths, assumptions, and expectations that create the
dysfunctional context for male sexual behavior (see Kaplan, 1974, 1983;
LoPiccolo &amp; LoPiccolo, 1978; Tollison &amp; Adams, 1979).


Men seeking treatment for sexual difficulties will most often present
with a symptom such as erectile failure, premature ejaculation, or inhibited
desire. However, the <i>response</i> to this symptom, such as anxiety, depression,
or low self-esteem is usually what brings the man into treatment, and this

[p. <i>92</i>]

Sex therapy exercises, such as those developed by William Masters and
Virginia Johnson and others, are usually effective only when the social
context of gender ideals has also been addressed. This is accomplished by
exploring and challenging the myths of male sexuality, modeling by the
therapist of a different version of masculinity, giving permission to the
patient to fail, and self-disclosure by the therapist of the doubts, fears of
inadequacy, and other anxieties that all men experience. These will
significantly reduce the isolation that the patient may experience, the fear
that he is the only man who experiences such sexually-linked problems.
These methods may be used to reorient men's assumptions about what
constitutes masculinity, even though the therapist will be unable to change
the entire social edifice that has been constructed upon these gender
assumptions. Both the cognitive as well as the physical script must be
addressed in treating sexual dysfunction; the cognitive script is perhaps the
more important.


Recall these specific examples drawn from case materials. Sam's sexual
performance was charged with anxiety and shame regarding both female
partners and male peers. He was adamant that no one know he was seeking
therapy, and went to great lengths to assure that confidentiality be
preserved. He revealed significant embarrassment and shame with the
therapist in early sessions, which subsided once the condition was normalized
by the therapist.


Sam had grown up with exaggerated expectations of male sexual
performance—that men must perform sexually on cue and never experience
any sexual difficulty—that were consistent with the social milieu in which
he was raised. He held women on a pedestal and believed that a man must
please a woman or risk losing her. The stakes were thus quite high. Sam was
also terrified of appearing "unmanly" with women, which resulted in a high
degree of performance anxiety, which in turn prompted the premature
ejaculation. The cycle of anxiety and failure finally brought Sam to
treatment. Finally, Sam was detached from his own sexuality, his own
body both sexually and emotionally. His objectification of his penis made
it impossible for him to monitor impending ejaculation, and he was
therefore unable to moderate the intensity of sensation prior to the point of
ejaculatory inevitability. This common pattern among men who experience
premature ejaculation suggests that such a response comes not from
hypersensitivity but rather an atrophied sensitivity, based on objectification
of the phallus.

[p. <i>93</i>]

Sam's treatment consisted of permission from another man—the
therapist—to experience this problem and the attempt by the therapist to
normalize the situation and reframe it as a problem any man might
encounter. The problem was redefined as a sign of virility rather than an
indication of its absence; Sam came to understand his sexual drive as quite
high, which led to high levels of excitement that he had not yet learned to
control. The therapist presented suggestions to control ejaculation that
helped him moderate the intensity of arousal in order to better control his
ejaculation. The important work, however, challenged the myths and
cognitive script that Sam maintained regarding his sexuality. The attention
given to his sexual performance, what he demanded of himself and what he
believed women demanded of him, helped him reorient his sexuality into a
less performance-oriented style.


Joe, the 34-year-old CPA, experienced low sexual desire with his wife
though he masturbated regularly. Masturbatory fantasies involving images
of women wanting him, finding him highly desirable, populated his fantasy
world. When his self-esteem was low, as when he lost his job, for example,
his sexual fantasies increased markedly. These fantasies of prowess with
devalued women restored, he felt, his worth as a man. Interest in
pornography included a script in which women were passive and men in
control, very unlike the situation he perceives with his wife. He complained
that he is caught in a vicious cycle, since without sexual interest in his wife
he's not a "real man," and if he's not a "real man" then he has no sexual
desire for her. He suggested that if he could only master a masculine
challenge that was not sexual, such as finding another job or another
competitive situation, he believed his sexual interest in his wife would
increase. He felt he needed the mastery of a masculine challenge to confirm
his sense of self as a man, which would then find further confirmation in the
sexual arena. This adds an empirical confirmation of Gagnon and Simon's
argument (1973) that genital sexuality contains many nonsexual motives,
including the desire for achievement, power, and peer approval. Joe came
to therapy with a great deal of shame at having to be there, and was
especially ashamed at having to tell another man about his failures as a
man. He was greatly relieved by the therapist's understanding, selfdisclosure,
and nonjudgmental stance, which enhanced the therapist's
credibility and Joe's commitment to treatment.


One cognitive script that Joe challenged in counseling was his embrace
of the "madonna/whore" ideology. In this formulation, any woman worth
having (the madonna—mother or wife) was perceived as both asexual and
as sexually rejecting of him, since his failures rendered him less of a real
man. A "whore," on the other hand, would be both sexually available and
interested in him, so she is consequently devalued and avoided. He could be
sexual with her because the stakes are so low. This reinforces the cultural
equation between sexual pleasure and cultural guilt and shame, since Joe
would only want to be sexual with those who would not want to be sexual

[p. <i>94</i>]

Joe's therapy included individual short-term counseling with the goal of
helping him see the relationship between his self-esteem and his inhibited
sexual desire. Traditional masculine definitions of success were the sole
basis for Joe's self-esteem, and these were challenged in the context of a
supportive therapeutic environment. The failure of childhood male role
models was contrasted with new role models who provide permission to
fail, helping Joe view sexuality as noncompetitive and non-achievementoriented
activity. Joe began to experience a return of sexual desire for his
wife, as he became less phallocentric and more able to see sex as a vehicle
for expressing intimacy and caring rather than a performance for an
objectified self and other.


Bill, the 52-year-old married engineer, presented with erectile failure,
which is part of a larger pattern of intolerance of failure in himself. The
failure of his penis to function properly symbolized to him the ultimate
collapse of his manhood. Not surprisingly, he had searched for physiological
etiologies before seeking psychological counseling, and had been referred
by an urologist. It is estimated that less than 50% of all men who present
themselves for penile implant surgery have a physiological basis for their
problem; if so, the percentage of all men who experience erectile disorders
whose etiology is physiological is less than 5%. Yet the pressure to salvage a
sense of masculinity that might be damaged by a psychological problem
leads thousands of men to request surgical prosthesis every year (see, for
example, Tiefer, 1986).


Bill and his wife, Ann, confronted in therapy the myths of male sexuality
that they embraced, including such dicta as "a real man always wants sex,"
" the only real sex is intercourse," and "the man must always be in charge of
sex" (see Zilbergeld, 1978). The therapist gave Bill permission to fail by
telling him that all men at some time experience erectile dysfunction.
Further, Bill was counseled that the real problem is not the erectile failure,
but his reaction to this event. Exercises were assigned in which Bill
obtained an erection through manual stimulation and then purposely lost
the erection to desensitize himself to his terrible fear of failure. This helped
him overcome the "what if" fear of losing the erection. Bill was counseled to
"slow down" his sexual activity, and to focus on the sensations rather than
the physical response, both of which were designed to further remove the
performance aspects from his sexual activity. Finally, the therapist helped
Bill and Ann redefine the notion of masculinity by stating that "a real man
is strong enough to take risks, eschew stereotypes, to ask for what he needs
sexually from a partner, and, most of all, to tolerate failure."


As Bill and Ann's cognitive script changed, his ability to function
sexually improved. Though Bill still does not get full erections on a
consistent basis, this fact is no longer catastrophic for him. He and Ann

[p. <i>95</i>]

As one can see from these case studies, several themes run consistently
through therapeutic strategies in counseling men about sexual problems,
and many of these themes also relate directly to issues of social analysis as
well as clinical practice. For example, the therapeutic environment must be
experienced as supportive, and care must be taken so that the therapist not
appear too threatening or too "successful" to the patient. The gender of the
therapist with the male patient will raise different issues at this point. A
male therapist can empathize with the patient, and greatly reduce his sense
of isolation, while a female therapist can provide positive reactions to fears
of masculine inadequacy, and thereby provide a positive experience with a
woman they may translate to nontherapeutic situations.


Second, the presenting symptom should be "normalized," that is, it
should be cast within the wider frame of male socialization to sexuality. It is
not so much that the patient is "bad," "wrong," or "abnormal" but that he
has experienced some of the contradictory demands of masculinity in ways
that have become dysfunctional for his sexual experiences. It is often
crucial to help the patient realize that he is not the only man who
experiences these problems, and that these problems are only problems
seen from within a certain construct of masculinity.


In this way, the therapist can help the patient to dissociate sexuality
from his sense of masculinity, to break the facile identification between
sexual performance and masculinity. Masculinity can be confirmed by
more than erectile capacity, constant sexual interest, and a long duration of
intercourse; in fact, as we have argued, normal male sexuality often
requires the dissociation of emotional intimacy and connectedness for
adequate sexual functioning. Raising the level of analysis from the
treatment of individual symptoms to a social construction of gender and
sexuality does not mean abandoning the treatment of the presenting
symptoms, but rather retaining their embeddedness in the social context
from which they emerge. Counseling men about sexuality involves, along
with individualized treatment, the redefinition of what it means to be a man
in contemporary American society. Therapeutic treatments pitched at both
the social and the individual levels can help men become more expressive
lovers and friends and fathers, as well as more "functional" sexual partners.
That a man's most important sexual organ is his mind is as true today as
ever.

[p. <i>96</i>]

<b>References</b>


David, D.;, &amp; Brannon, R.; (1976). <i>The forty-nine percent majority</i>. Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley.


Gagnon, J.; (1977). <i>Human sexualities</i>. Chicago: Scott, Foresman.


Gagnon, J.;, &amp; Simon, W.; (1973). <i>Sexual conduct</i>. Chicago: Aldine.


Kaplan, H.; S.;, (1974). <i>The new sex therapy</i>. New York: Brunner-Mazel.


Kimmel, M.; (Ed.;). (in press). <i>Changing men: New directions in research on men and
masculinity</i>. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.


Kinsey, A.; C.;, &amp; Pomeroy, W.; (1948). <i>Sexual behavior in the human male</i>. Philadelphia:
Saunders.


LoPiccolo, J.;, &amp; LoPiccolo, L.; (1978). <i>Handbook of sex therapy</i>. New York: Plenum.


Mead, M.; (1935). <i>Sex and temperament in three primitive societies</i>. New York: William
Morrow.


Thompson, E.; H.;, Jr.;, &amp; Pleck, J.; H.; (1986). The structure of male role norms. <i>American
Behavioral Scientist, 29</i>, 531-543.


Tiefer, L.; (1986). In pursuit of the perfect penis: The medicalization of male sexuality.
<i>American Behavioral Scientist, 29</i>, 579-599.


Tollison, C.; D.;, &amp; Adams, H.; (1979). <i>Sexual disorders: Treatment, theory, and research</i>. New
York: Gardner.


Trilling, L.; (1954). <i>The liberal imagination</i>. New York: Knopf.


Wagner, G.;, &amp; Green, R.; (1984). <i>Impotence: Physiological, psychological, surgical diagnosis
and treatment</i>. New York: Plenum.


Zilbergeld, B.; (1978). <i>Male sexuality</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.

