TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is the 14th interview, 14th interview. The second tape. 
COUNSELOR: I see yeah. But the reason I was confused about being (ph) late is because... my clock at home is-apparently 17 minutes fast. I looked at this clock and looked at my watch.
CLIENT: Oh!
COUNSELOR: And realized that this is off. 
CLIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: So I'm not even late and this clock was wrong. 
CLIENT: No you were on time. 
COUNSELOR: Oh okay.
CLIENT: I think. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: So you see I (inaudible at 0:00:26.0)-she might've been calling and I had the phone off. 
CLIENT: Oh I see.
COUNSELOR: I hadn't realize I didn't remember to turn off from last week. 
CLIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: The last time I saw you. 
CLIENT: You're getting all ready to move, huh? 
COUNSELOR: Well starting to pack. So I can get boxes, when I see how many, roughly, I need. 
CLIENT: It's going to be a hassle. I really don't envy you. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah I'm renting a truck and not-I'm not doing it the professional way. 
CLIENT: No one can afford to do it the professional way. (laughs) It just costs too much money. 
COUNSELOR: It's not cheap to rent a truck either. 
CLIENT: Yeah I know. It's unbelievable all the way around. (laughs) Oh wow. 
COUNSELOR: And I'll get to declare this as a tax deduction. 
CLIENT: That's good. 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:01:14.3)
CLIENT: I could declare this as a tax deduction, couldn't I?
COUNSELOR: Do you? It's a medical expense I imagine. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. I don't see why not. I'll try it. And see what they say. Oh well. Oh it's hot out. 
COUNSELOR: I know. 
CLIENT: It's really bad. Really bad. It's not bad in here though. It was a nice weekend though. Nice weekend to lie on the beach. That was really kind of nice. I was just thinking about like, getting started again. It seems like I'm regressing instead of getting better. 
COUNSELOR: You mean, regressing to where we got started?
CLIENT: Yeah! I don't know why. I don't know. Well at any rate, it was a nice weekend. It was okay.
COUNSELOR: How was it nice? 
CLIENT: Well Saturday it was nice. Tanya and I laid on the beach for a while you know. And then you know we came upstairs and went to bed. Which was nice, it was really nice.
COUNSELOR: Do you live right next to the beach?
CLIENT: Yeah right on the beach. 
COUNSELOR: So you say you went upstairs?
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: My God you must live right on the lake. 
CLIENT: I do. It's really, it's really nice. It's great. In fact I hope never to move out. (laughs) It's really nice you know.
COUNSELOR: And how did making love feel, did it feel kind of-
CLIENT: Well it felt great. Except we did the - we tried the same thing Sunday and I just bombed all over again. 
COUNSELOR: You mean you couldn't have an erection?
CLIENT: No, right. It was really weird. It was really weird. And the thing was, I think I was really rela-well, Saturday I was really hot. And just out on the beach. I don't know a guy that was (inaudible at 0:03:22.0), stayed out there until about 4:00 or 4:30. And I hadn't anything to eat all day. And so I came in and I had a beer. Like, instantly (inaudible at 0:03:30.6). It was unbelievable. It really was. It was like a high. And one beer. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah well an empty stomach. 
CLIENT: Well an empty stomach and I just drank it down so fast, because I was so thirsty. And I just felt terrific. And I just-like, "Wow that was really great". And then Sunday just nothing. And it was like this-and like I was anticipating it. 
COUNSELOR: Anticipating having problems? 
CLIENT: Yeah right! Like I was anticipating it. You know like it was really strange. 
COUNSELOR: And it came true. 
CLIENT: Yes! 
COUNSELOR: Probably because you anticipated-
CLIENT: Anticipated it, yes. Because, well it was-we had been out on the beach. And then a couple friends came by. And we went to get something to eat. And then we came back. And it started to storm. This-Michelle and Desmond came by. Michelle and Desmond and they're married. He's crazy. He says - Desmond says, "Oh Christ would it be fantastic to make love, in the storm." No that wasn't it. They were just about ready to leave and the storm was just about to break. And I said, "Oh you're not going to leave now." And then I -  I thought to myself, "You know, well why wouldn't I want them to leave?" You know? And then they-like I was anticipating the whole thing. [0:04:46.3]
COUNSELOR: When you-was it like-were you anticipating the whole thing before that or kind of right at the moment when you kind of asked yourself, "Why don't I want them to leave?" 
CLIENT: I don't know if it was in my subconscious or not. I really-because the thing was, I thought about it. I didn't realize it until later. Like when I was in bed with Tanya. And I thought to myself, "You know"-and what did I say? I said, "I'm getting to the point, where I-" Oh. What was it. I don't know what it was. Like I'm worrying it'd be-worrying about something before it's even happening. Or something like this. It was really, it was really weird. And she says, "Yeah." She said, "I noticed it too." And I said, "Right." 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:05:35.1) you so relaxed you (inaudible at 0:05:40.3). 
CLIENT: Yeah it really was. 
COUNSELOR: And then you - 
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Found yourself-found yourself worrying about it. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: And it really ruined it. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. And Tanya said-well I mean you know it's strange. I find it so strange. And she says, "You know you can. You've done it before. So all of a sudden what's wrong?" And I said, "I don't know. I really don't know." I said, "Maybe it's because on my mind or something. I don't know. " It was really weird you know. And then she-and then she said something like, "Well I'm glad it's - ." Something like, "Well I'm glad it's not my responsibility." Or something like that. Yeah she said, "Well I'm just happy it's not my response-it's not a responsibility that I have to have." Or something according to the responsibility. And I said, "Yes. And if I can't fulfill my responsibility I might as well just go out and kill myself." And she broke into tears. But I really didn't-I really didn't-believe that I said that. [0:06:35.6]
COUNSELOR: Did you mean it? 
CLIENT: No. I don't think I did. 
COUNSELOR: It was like in the drama. 
CLIENT: Yeah right, you know. I really don't think I mean. And I said, "Oh for Christ's sakes, I would never work up enough guts to kill myself." And she said, "Take it back." And I said, "Definitely I'm taking it back." (laughs) It was weird. It really was. Of course that made matters worse. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You mean, having...?
CLIENT: Oh you know her going through the tears and the whole bit. 
COUNSELOR: Oh I see. And then you saying (inaudible at 0:07:07.3). 
CLIENT: Right right. Yeah. So I just kind of blew the whole thing, even worse than it was. Built it up to something bigger than it, really should've been. And you know and like she says, "It's-You don't have to have sexual intercourse to have sex, to make love." You know which is true. But I don't know why I can't buy it. It's really strange.
COUNSELOR: Somehow kind of like, sexual intercourse just seems-
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Part of it. 
COUNSELOR: It represents-to you it represents very-
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: Something very important and something you proceed to worry about.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Kind of something you just set up and set up to worry too. 
CLIENT: Really. 
COUNSELOR: And how did you feel on Sunday when that-really kind of went-
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Rotten. And then I couldn't get it off my mind for nothing. I couldn't' get it off my mind for nothing. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:08:11.8)
CLIENT: Yeah. I really couldn't get it off my mind. It just like was there and it wouldn't go away. I really couldn't get it off my mind. 
COUNSELOR: And I guess it's still there too. 
CLIENT: Right. And I think-Tanya. Tanya knew that I was worrying about it. And then she said, "Oh do you want a drink?" And I thought, "Oh yeah okay." By that time, even if I was drunk it wouldn't have helped. You know I couldn't have relaxed. I couldn't-I couldn't get drunk if I wanted to. It would've been impossible even to get drunk. So it was really-it was very strange. Because she sensed it too. 
Then I was thinking about, the only way-you know like going about solving the problem again. In between Tanya and I working on exciting me, and, then I thought, "Well I'd still be thinking about it." If we were going to be, working on exciting me, then I still would be thinking about it.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like your attention (ph) in your mind. [0:10:23.1]
CLIENT: Yeah right. And then the attention would be drawing in my mind again. Right. So I don't know. I'm trying to think up solutions.
COUNSELOR: It doesn't-does it have to be? I mean why can't you just take it for what it is and, rather than, there you are and trying to excite you. And you don't have to say to yourself, "Well why is this all happening." Now if you say that to yourself-
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: Then you've got-
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You see but kind of when does that happen, when you try to get excited and she tries to excite you and you're worrying. Do you kind of worry then-"Is it going to work?"
CLIENT: Yeah right. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well that's-
CLIENT: That's true. There's no way.
COUNSELOR: No wait a second, it's not there's no way. That's your mistake. You know you-you see what I mean? 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I mean your mistake is not letting yourself just, have it and experience it and feel it. You are-while you're not - why it isn't having an effect it sound like is that you're not-is that you're worrying about if it's going to work. Just like you're worrying about, "Am I going to have an erection? Am I going to be able to, really have intercourse with her?" Or whatever. Excuse me. Do you understand-I mean what I'm saying is, when you're looking for solutions but the solutions is really kind of inside you. And-I know it's easy to say is that your worrying is really what's dampening it. [0:11:50.6]
CLIENT: Yeah it's easy to say but you know. It's just easy to say. 
COUNSELOR: What-
CLIENT: You know but-you know then when I think about it as far as myself is concerned - . I mean I don't need intercourse, like every day of the year. I mean it doesn't frustrate me not to go to bed every day of the year. But you know then I think I'm not fulfilling her. 
COUNSELOR: Oh I see.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: And like you don't need it for you but are you kind of not really, living up to, making her happy.
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Is she disappointed and kind of "Am I not kind of man enough-"
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because I might be frustrating her. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, right. You know. Because as far as I'm concerned, I'm just-I don't know that's the type of a person that I am. I really don't need sex that often. 
COUNSELOR: You don't need it so often but you really need to feel that you're making her happy. [0:12:57.1]
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: And if you don't, sleep with her every day or be-be good, you feel like she's not happy.
CLIENT: Uhm-hm. 
COUNSELOR: There's kind of an assumption there that happiness is, black and white. It is or it isn't. 
CLIENT: That's true. Because that's-the assumption is that just by having intercourse would make her happy. That's my assumption. 
COUNSELOR: Right. If that's your assumption your assumption is, "Well, she's unhappy or she's happy." It' s not like she's pretty happy. 
CLIENT: Oh I see. A little bit of a gray. Yeah. I see. That's true. I don't know-
COUNSELOR: Have you asked you if she's happy? 
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: No. I was thinking about that too. But I mean maybe she wouldn't want to hurt my feelings, and just say, "Well, yeah. I'm really terrifically happy." I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: She-but...
CLIENT: You know, she wouldn't -
COUNSELOR: So no matter-if you ask her she may, maybe you don't know whether to believe her or not. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. Exactly. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: It kind of sounds like-most basically it's like, you don't believe yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You see what I mean, believe in your own kind of ability to make her happy so, even if she said you're making me happy it's like you don't believe her. Because you doubt that you are. You doubted yourself. 
CLIENT: Right. It's kind of - we went and saw, The Owl and the Pussycat? 
COUNSELOR: I never saw it. 
CLIENT: Well it's-I thought it was kind of funny. It was really kind of blue. But it was funny. Anyway, Barbra Streisand gets finished making love with this guy and she says, well something like-he asked her, "Well why is it that you're a prostitute? What makes you something like this?" She gets all offended and everything. She starts fighting (ph) and she says, "And the next question you're going to ask is, 'Was it good' or 'Was it better than any other man'?" Or something like this. And "Did I really make you feel good, as compared to other men?" It's like a measurement of-your manhood. If you can really-
COUNSELOR: Make a woman happy.
CLIENT: Make a woman happy in bed. 
COUNSELOR: And it is for you. 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And you're wondering if you are. 
CLIENT: Right. And then I caught that at the movie, right away. And I thought to myself, "Is this something that's-you know it's like, American apple pie." Just something that, this... It's something that a man is measured-his manhood is measured by the way his performance in bed. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:15:38.0) American. 
CLIENT: Yeah. You know like this is the-this society sets up this thing. 
COUNSELOR: Well certainly how you measure-
CLIENT: Right!
COUNSELOR: Yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Right. Which is wrong. Really. When you think about it. I just say, "Well, as long as I'm happy."
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like, rationally and maybe wondering, you know it does really feel important to you.
CLIENT: It does, it really does. 
COUNSELOR: Like when you just kind of feel, very gray (ph) and show her that you are making her happy. Does she seem happy? Does she - 
CLIENT: Yeah-she does. Because, if she wasn't, asking the question. If she wasn't happy then why would she always come back, right?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: All right. That's true. Because I-well, she wouldn't call. She wouldn't come by, if she wasn't happy.
COUNSELOR: Or she might say something.
CLIENT: She wouldn't. I don't think. 
COUNSELOR: Oh she sounded blunt. [0:16:46.7] 
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah. She does. No, but something like that, she wouldn't say anything. Something like that she wouldn't say anything. She's not that blunt. Well see now you're going to 'that blunt' again. Now why would it be blunt? (laughs) Oh it's weird, it really is weird. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but I-I do get what you're saying. It's that-"By God, I really feel caught up in, feeling that I make her happy because that makes me feel like a man. And that's-and I doubt that I'm doing that." Kind of like you're saying to yourself, "Well, why would she come back?" Like you want to know that you do make her happy. 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And I guess kind of the disappointment or a lot (ph) of the disappointment, is kind of like when it doesn't work. When you get worried it's like, you failed and you failed as a man. That's kind of the way it feels to you. 
CLIENT: Right. Right. And I thought to myself, "I'm really at rope's end." Then I thought to myself, "Well maybe it's just as well because if-." [0:18:43.6]
COUNSELOR: What do you mean you're at rope's end?
CLIENT: You know like-you know like I just-you know like I just-I thought to myself, "Christ, how can I get away from worrying?" And I thought-I just-I just sort of like, "Oh-" Really I felt like telling Tanya, "Please leave." I really felt like saying, "Just could you please leave." 
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you were (inaudible at 0:19:06.6). 
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: Tortured inside.
CLIENT: Yeah right. And I felt like saying, "Please leave." I really felt like going for a walk. And I just felt like, and I said, "Please leave." But I didn't. I wasn't going to be that cruel. It would've been cruel you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, she might not have understood how miserable you felt. 
CLIENT: I don't know. Yeah I don't know. And then I thought really it would've been kind of lousy. And I just wanted to forget the whole fucking thing. And just-
COUNSELOR: Kind of give up and everything. 
CLIENT: Really. I don't know. It was just really unbelievable. (inaudible at 0:20:52.7) Well Saturday night we got in a hassle about, funny. I don't know how we got into it. We were sitting on the beach and there was a party. There was a party out on the beach so we were down there. And then, it was late. And it was about, seeing me seeing Jen again. And she said, well-it got down to, that she said that if, she knew that I really disliked a person, really intensely disliked a person, that, she wouldn't see this person. 
And, I said, "Well-I don't think I-" I said, "No, I would, see this person." I wouldn't see this person with you, but I wouldn't see-." And then she says, "Well then why would you tell me about it." And I said, "Sometimes it's better to tell you about it. It's better than you finding out." Because I was talking to her, seeing her. Stuff like this. But, she says, "Well you know - ." And I could understand her point in a way, too. That she's saying, "If I was seeing someone and you knew about it, and you really disliked this person, it would upset you." And it probably would. And I can imagine how it's upsetting her, too. But I thought...but I thought, "She's saying, 'I don't want anybody to make up my mind for me.'" And saying just because she doesn't like her doesn't-I thought, "No one can expect to like all the same people." [0:22:40.5]
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: But -  you mean somehow that it also kind of means, sounds like if she-if you really cared about her-
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: You should be willing to give that up. 
CLIENT: Give that up for her yeah. That kind of made sense too. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Is it the fact-in Tanya's mind, does she say that it's the fact that she doesn't like her?
CLIENT: No it's-well-in-
COUNSELOR: Or is there possible jealousy. 
CLIENT: Yeah, a possible jealousy. And she said after what Jen had pulled on me, when we were in bed and stuff like that, this is - she thought she was kind of rotten, and all that stuff. And you know I says, "I actually find that for myself. And just, really, how rotten." And it's kind of like my nature too. This friend of mine, he was bi (ph) too. Justin Canvatti and this other kid, guy I know. And he said something about, something about you can't go around liking everyone. You can't expect to go around and like everyone. And I said, "I really don't dislike anybody." And I really-there's-then I thought to myself, "Well, am I really afraid that they wouldn't like me?" Putting it in the reverse. So. I don't know. But as opposed to Tanya. If she really doesn't like somebody, she lets them know that she doesn't like them. [0:24:22.6]
COUNSELOR: But she-you don't really feel like you don't-there are people you don't like and really you couldn't see yourself-
CLIENT: You know-I'm not-if I don't like them, I don't like them. And I'm not going to, I'm not going to see them often. But I won't be cold or cruel to them. 
COUNSELOR: Does that kind of bother you, like you wonder is that because I'm afraid that people won't like me?
CLIENT: Yeah right. I thought about that. If I'm afraid that people won't like me. Like I said, if I really don't like them, I'm not going to-go up to them or I'm not going to be cold or cruel to them. 
COUNSELOR: Well you know, people are different. But it very well may be that because you're afraid of, them not liking you. But it also may be that you just don't really believe you should not be nice. 
CLIENT: Yeah, right. 
COUNSELOR: Not nice to people. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: I mean-it isn't-there isn't any law that people should be nasty to each other. 
CLIENT: Yeah right! That's what I'm saying. Like this woman that-
COUNSELOR: I mean maybe people are but...
CLIENT: Yeah that's the truth. This woman that, lives down the hall. She was supposed to have called the police on me, when we had this party last year or something like this. About a year ago. So, I don't know if she did or she didn't. We thought it was her because she came to the door and threatened that she was going to call the police. 
COUNSELOR: And the police came.
CLIENT: And the police did come. But I don't know if it was her or not. And they're still talking about it in the building. It was quite the party. But anyway, I did - and then this other guy said that he heard that she didn't call, that it was somebody else. So-well when I first saw her, at first-being kind of sarcastic and facetious or something and-she'd be walking down the hall with her nose stuck up in the air. And I'd say, "Hi, how are you?" And after a while she started saying, "Hi." back. And it was like it was all right. 
So then she came up to the party, she was at the party and said something to me. And she said, "How can you talk to her after she did that?" It was like "How could she say that?" And I said, "Well for number one, I've heard that it really wasn't her that called the police." And she says, "Oh." It didn't make any sense to me. [0:26:43.0]
COUNSELOR: It didn't make any sense for you to harbor grudges. 
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: It's not like you really felt it. 
CLIENT: Right I didn't. I really didn't. I really-it's just like, she started talking to me. And I just thought it was kind of nice. She's probably not an old bad girl anyway. 
COUNSELOR: Pardon?
CLIENT: She's not really not a bad girl anyway, the old woman who called the police. She's a nosy bitch, but I mean you know. I kept saying "hi" to her. But that was-it was interesting. It really was. Interesting conversation. 
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense like you really kind of in the back of your mind (inaudible at 0:27:27.5). This sex business.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Maybe we need this-if you want to talk longer. 
CLIENT: I don't know what to say about it, I really don't. I really don't know what to say about it.
COUNSELOR: Maybe kind of like you want to-can you kind of tell me like, when you're really feeling like your worst Sunday (ph) (inaudible at 0:27:45.4).
CLIENT: I don't know. It's really weird. What was that feeling like. Well waking up Sunday morning was kind of bad. I think I was kind of hung over. But I was-either that or I was just tired, you know. Tanya called about-9:00, 9:30 or something like that. And she said, "Oh you going to be around?" And I said, "Yeah." I was half-asleep and stuff like this. And I said, "Oh why'd you call so-." And she got this-"Oh why'd you call so damn early for? You got me out of bed." 
And she said, "Well I didn't know if you were going to be taking off or going-I just wanted to be with you." I said, "Well." I said, "I would've been down-you know I would've been down here at the beach." And she said, "No I don't." And she called because she was on her way to Mass or something like that. So she was up. So I didn't go back to sleep so. Then, we were down on the beach. And I was still feeling-she came, and I wasn't really happy to see her. I was just like - . [0:28:58.4]
COUNSELOR: Sort of indifferent. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. "Well she's here." And I just-in fact she started, we were just lying there and she started talking. And I thought, "Oh Christ I wish she'd shut up." I just felt like lying there, not saying anything. I think-oh and I said, I said like, "Oh I'm really in a lousy way today." Or something like this. So I think she kind of got the hint. But then these two friends came by, a little while later, about an hour or so later. And it kind of picked up. I felt fairly good and went swimming and got a wake and stuff like that. So I felt really okay. And I don't know why I wouldn't want to-I don't know why I wouldn't want them to go. I didn't, if I didn't want to see them to go, see them go, after that. It was like, I just maybe-I just didn't want to go to bed. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah you just really weren't feeling like it. [0:30:03.6]
CLIENT: Yeah right. Going to bed. 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Did you-when you did go to bed did it kind of feel like an obligation to you rather than-
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: That you wanted to.
CLIENT: Yeah. It did. Yeah it did. Because (ph) it was like she was there and she was ready. And I just didn't really feel like it. I just-it really felt like an obligation. 
COUNSELOR: So kind of like you did it because you felt like you had to to make her happy. 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And kind of live up to an expectation, and like a 'man' would go to bed with her. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:30:30.4). 
CLIENT: No I didn't really want to. No, I didn't. Right. And she felt it too. She must-
COUNSELOR: Did she say that?
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:30:40.9)
CLIENT: When I said something to her about-I don't know what my, something like, "I'm really not - I really wasn't looking-I'm really not looking forward to it." Or something like this. And she says, "Yeah I caught it when you said you didn't want them to go." Probably (ph) just fine if we would have just sat there and watched television or something. Because that's probably-me knowing that she's expecting to go to bed. 
COUNSELOR: Right. [0:31:14.7]
CLIENT: And then it becomes an obligation.
COUNSELOR: It becomes an obligation.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: The point is that you'd be happy. 
CLIENT: To fulfill my obligation.
COUNSELOR: The point is to make her happy and then you kind of learn (inaudible at 0:31:25.8) better.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah right. And then it even makes it worse when I can't. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. That's pretty good. 
COUNSELOR: Because it-I mean do you feel like you could say to her, "I really don't feel like it."
CLIENT: Well-I never really thought about it. Because it's like, you don't say it. When a girl wants to go to bed you go to bed. But I never really though about not say-like saying, "No I don't feel like it." I wonder what she'd say. 
COUNSELOR: What do you-I'm not sure I understand.
CLIENT: I never really thought about-I thought about-I thought about why I really don't feel like going to bed. I thought about that. But I really never thought about saying, "No" to her. 
COUNSELOR: Because somehow you're not supposed to say -
CLIENT: You're not supposed to say, "No". Right. Right. It was always like-
COUNSELOR: A girl can say, "No" but a guy doesn't?
CLIENT: Right! (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You know-
CLIENT: You got it.
COUNSELOR: People are-I guess it's kind of a-like it-I guess the kind of the thing you're thinking about it is because, traditionally it's guys who try to make girls-
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: And once you make me (ph) and you make a girl -  wow, you should always take advantage of that. But when people are going together, it's a different thing. It's kind of like-I don't know if you understand this. It's just kind of like-you have sex. It's part of your relationship. And it's not like missing an opportunity. I mean it's kind of like sometimes like if people are living together, they're not married yet, people are-married people, you get people who are tired they want to go to sleep, let's say. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. [0:33:06.2]
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: People don't make -  people don't make love every night. And the guy just is-
CLIENT: Just isn't capable right. But I wonder if it would be like-I keep-the obligation thing keeps on. 
COUNSELOR: Like it's your obligation?
CLIENT: Yeah like it would be my obligation. And the thing that-what would her reaction be, if I really would have said, "No. I just don't feel like it."
COUNSELOR: It seems kind of like that is what you're most concerned about is kind of, what is she going to think about you. Is she going to be let down. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It's really important to you. It's kind of like-
CLIENT: Or "He really doesn't care for me." Or something like this. 
COUNSELOR: Or "Is she going to think I'm not a man."
CLIENT: Right. I wonder. I couldn't-I-it would take an explanation, not just a simple 'No'. I'd just have to explain. 
COUNSELOR: I mean I guess something if you do want to explain something else, you don't have to say this. "You've seen that sometimes I have problems when I, feel like I'm doing it for you and I don't really feel like it. I'm just not quite in the mood. When I'm in the mood it's fine. And I guess I'm not feeling in the mood."
CLIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: When it's something like, you can say, "No, I'm (inaudible at 0:34:43.2) but it's something that I find I can't force myself to do. I don't want to do it all the time." No I don't know if it's-that's really up to you, whether you want to say something about it. Or whether you indeed not-you don't want to sleep with her. You know you might, feel really unhappy if you say, "I don't want to sleep with you." Because you may feel like you're not fulfilling an obligation. Kind of - I'm just kind of telling you that there are alternatives. 
CLIENT: Yeah. It sounds like the logical thing to do though. It really sounds like-
COUNSELOR: That's kind of the way it is for you.
CLIENT: Right. Right! It sounds like, the most logical thing to do, for me. Thinking back, on Saturday when everything went so well I really did feel like going to bed. I really did. [0:36:21.9]
COUNSELOR: This is-after you came up from the beach. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. And I really did feel like going to bed. I wonder if women's needs are greater than men's. They've always said that men's are greater than women's but it seems to me it's vice versa. [0:37:53.3]
COUNSELOR: You think women's needs are greater-like that she kind of does-"It seems like she wants to make love more than I do."
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah right. Really. I wonder. In fact there was a time, I don't know how long ago it was. During the summer my father used to sleep downstairs because it was cooler. And the front porch, when it got hot it was air conditioned or something like that. It was only a single bed or something like that. My mother used to throw out cracks periodically, like when he was going move back upstairs and stuff like this. And, it dawned on me too-and he-he never would say anything. He never would say anything. [0:38:38.7]
And I really would be-and she would say something to my aunts or something like this. Like she was tired of him sleeping down here or something like this. And he never really would say anything. And I don't know, how I felt-I felt like, "Why isn't he sleeping with her? Why isn't he sleeping with her?" Maybe he just didn't feel like it. (laughs) But it was like periodically. It was like, a thing. It was really strange. 
COUNSELOR: And kind of like-I guess there's a big question mark like, how much is expected in you? What's right for you? Or where, where, where's the line where I'm abnormal or something. [0:39:30.1]
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah. It's a really-it's like when Desmond and Michelle were over. He isn't-he gets to the point where he's gross. [I don't like that] (ph) kind of gross. You know, you can take him for just so long and that's it. Right, you know like, he broadcasts his sex life, every-like anything. Oh -  he said yesterday, something that, "Oh, three times last night folks." Or something like this. And I thought to myself, "How in the hell?" (laughs)
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Kind of like, when he said that it's kind of like-
CLIENT: Wow, you know. 
COUNSELOR: My God. I don't-
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: Do it three times a night. 
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Sounds like he has to prove something to himself, and to you too, or something.
CLIENT: That's true too. 
COUNSELOR: He-it's quite possible-you know people can sleep together three times a night. But it-they make such a big thing out of it, it's kind of funny. Like you're trying to-do you understand (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I mean because it's just not the kind of thing like if it feels right and good to you, it just settled it back.
CLIENT: Yeah that's the thing.
COUNSELOR: If you feel the need to talk about it-
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Especially to other people.
CLIENT: Yeah it's your business, as far as I'm concerned. But like if-well like one, you know but I felt like shouting from the housetops, like 'Wow, I've slept with a woman.' And, you know. I was over at my parents' house after we'd been to my cousin's. And my brother was there, and my sister was there. And my brother-in-law and my sister's girlfriend. And Tanya and I and my mom and my dad and my aunt. And we were all there. And my brother is going to school. And he was just down for the day or something. [0:41:37.9]
And he was going into New York with his girlfriend. And they were going to come back to my folks' house and spend the night. But, I was giving them a ride to New York, and they were going to get a ride back by this other guy, Jay. And I said, "Oh what if Jay isn't there and you can't get back?" And, said something about, I don't know-well Sheila interpreted it because I don't remember what I said. I was feeling kind of drunk. So, something about-well, they could come back and stay with me. And then something about, "Well Tanya can cook." Something about Tanya cooking or something. And Tanya can come and stay with my parents. 
And, I said, "Oh no." I said, "Daniel, Daniel and Jamie stay there. Connor and Tanya stay at Tanya's." And my mother stood up and she said something like -  Tanya said she was standing there and she said, "I just don't like this modern living." And I thought, "Oh God, I really didn't say that." And Tanya said, "Oh yeah you said it." 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like, maybe you felt like you, kind of without knowing it, saying something, right from the rooftops. 
CLIENT: Right. I did say it. And Tanya just [sat there] (ph) about ready to crack up. I would've loved to have known what their reactions were. (laughs) It's really strange. I'm really going to have to sit down and talk with Tanya about that. [0:43:54.3]
COUNSELOR: About? 
CLIENT: You know, me (ph) being an obligation to me. I need to sit down and talk with her about that. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it's kind of-it's weighting on your mind.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And kind of like when you want to do it -  if what you're saying is right, then when you want to do it, it does feel right to you to feel like you have to perform to make her happy. Or it feels more tense. 
CLIENT: Like let me make up my own mind. Really. That's the truth. That's the truth. I hope she won't be offended. I don't know. Well if she is that's too bad. Well of course she felt-you know like after, it was interesting, after we had that discussion the night before about Jen and everything. And she really, went away kind of pissed off about the whole thing. But when she came back Sunday, it was like, she was just so happy and everything. I thought, "Wow. Does she understand now or something. Has she really thought about it? Is it really-." You know, it was really strange. It was really strange. [0:45:22.0]
 I don't know. And then she said something about, we were sitting up there talking. And she said something about knowing when she's going to Spain she's going to find some Spanish man or something like that. And I said something and I, turned around. And maybe I said it. She said you said-I said it in kind of a nasty tone, like something like, "Oh you know." I don't know. Something like, "Well you don't expect me to sit around here and wait. There are other fish in the sea." Or something like this. And she told me, she was really upset about it. And I said, "Well I didn't mean it to be nasty." And I said, "But you were being-trying to be funny and say that you were going to find some man in Spain." [0:46:21.3]
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like, you were just saying to her what she was saying to you.
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah right! I said I was just saying the same thing. 
COUNSELOR: But she can do it and you can't. 
CLIENT: Yeah right! And she was really upset, about the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: Was she kidding?
CLIENT: Yeah she was kidding. And I was too. But she, thought that I wasn't. She thought that, (inaudible at 0:46:36.8). 
COUNSELOR: And you thought well she wasn't. 
CLIENT: Yeah I didn't. And I probably didn't. but she thought, you know, maybe it was the tone of my voice or something that, offended her. I don't know. She was really, she really kind of like was upset about the whole thing. [0:46:54.9]
COUNSELOR: You kind of maybe got upset, and Jen is a part of it. Well, there's another fish in the sea, it would be very likely-
CLIENT: Right. That's true too. I never thought about that. That's true too. Oh she's really getting to the point where she's really, she's jealous of how-
COUNSELOR: When you said-you know when Tanya says, "Well she treated me so-she treated you so rotten." And you say, "Well I want to find out, how rotten she is." Well there's-that can, interpret, "Well I want to, go to bed with her and see what happens this time." She might see it that way. 
CLIENT: When-there's, I don't know. There's a woman who lives upstairs from me, Cass Jordan. And she's, oh-old maid so-and-so girl. (laughs) But she's like that. She's an old maid I guess. Old maid school teacher. But she's-she's just in her thirties I guess you know. And she's really nice. I enjoy-she talks a lot but I enjoy, listening to her once in a while. And she really can be a lot of fun. I've had her at a couple of parties and stuff like that. But, we went out St. Patrick's Day. And, Tanya said some-much later, you know like, only like a few weeks ago, how Cass has her eyes on me. Like, "She's really got her eyes on you." And I said, "You're kidding!" And she said, "No." [0:48:26.8]
And I said, "I really never noticed it." And Tanya says, "Well she can't even take her eyes off you." And-oh this if after we were out on the beach and Cass was there and Tanya was there and I was there. And something about-Cass said something. We were talking about the apartments in the building. And Cass said something about, "Oh when Tanya leaves, Connor you and I can get a two bedroom apartment." And I just was like, "Wow." And I said, "Oh no thanks Cass." 
And I said, "Do you believe what she said?" And she goes, "Yes." I said, "Wow." I said, "That really kind of shocked me." And she says, "Oh no. Cass has had eyes on you for the longest time." And I said, "Oh wow." And I said, "Well, shoot-really, there's no way." And then after I said that, assuring Tanya that I wasn't going to jump in bed with Cass, her whole different-her whole attitude changed to Cass. Like she wouldn't even talk to her before, it was so-
COUNSELOR: Now kind of she wasn't a threat. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. She was a threat. Like she really couldn't stand to be with her. And Cass was always out on the beach. And I'm always out on the beach. So, it was-it was really strange. It really was. 
COUNSELOR: It's like (inaudible at 0:49:48.3) Tanya can be jealous. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. It was, oh it was unbelievable. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: It's that time (inaudible at 0:49:54.8). 
CLIENT: Oh okay. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, same time Wednesday?
CLIENT: Yeah, same time. [0:50:00.1]
END TRANSCRIPT
