TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 0222-115 Interview #13, March 11, 1971, Client 0222-115 Interview #13
PATIENT: Back to that again.
COUNSELOR: Hmm 
PATIENT: Back to that again.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible @ 0:00:41.9)
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Would you like some coffee. I think there is some. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I suppose so. Keep me going for dinner. Woke up this morning and found out I didn't have a car to get to work with so I gave Tye my lunch money and he took me to work so I've been waiting on dinner. About to go crazy. Well, Tuesday with luck I get my first paycheck. Oh, yeah and that would mean that I'll probably be going just balls out to get to the bank so if I'm late it'll just be a few minutes because I've run to the bank to get my sob check cashed deposited. I don't know, I'm sure looking forward to pulling some money. 
COUNSELOR: That seems to be a real long stretch. (0:02:30.1)
PATIENT: Yeah. It's just about three months night I think. God damn I never had any idea what I was getting into when I left the other job. I don't know whether it's the onset of money coming back in or what but I'm getting real over powering urges to be active about things again. I'm super anxious to get a little bit ahead so that I can move the hell out of that frat house. I'm chomping at the bit to get a car but I figure I'll just put that off until middle of the summer if I can make the motorcycle last that long. If I last that long on a motorcycle. Anyway, it will just feel good to feel a little more capable of being responsible for myself again. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, make some choices instead of letting things happen or have to let things happen.(0:03:30.9)
PATIENT: Somehow or another I managed to have a very friendly day with my immediate supervisor. I don't know whether he's my boss or not but he's the person that's between I and the person that heads up that department out there and he strikes me as such a goon I just can't stand him. I didn't know it at first but I guess he is younger than I am which is a rather unusual situation for me but he's just the dumbest person I think I've ever met which is an exaggeration, but he is. (0:05:03.9) Today, he is also a very insecure person like he will run around, he'll walk you in, we do an hour's work in the morning and we just work our brains out then. We do a little bit of paperwork and then we wait about three hours for the people to come back in from the route work so I was writing a letter. A friend of mine, the guy that works with me was reading the newspaper. He's the kind of guy that if he comes in and sees you doing that, he won't say anything to you. He'll walk back and go tell the engineer. Then he'll come in and say don't read papers or don't do this or something like that which I don't mind so much as kind of an asinine way to go about it but I can see even people getting caught up in that kind of shit.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind a part of the bureaucratic structure.
PATIENT: Right. You have to look busy even though it's sheer stupidity to try and do it but this guy doesn't have the guts to say it, something on his own, it's supposed to be his responsibility but for some reason, well I had a little toy in my pocket on the way to work (0:06:09.1) I didn't notice it until I got to work but have you ever seen these little things called clackers, the two balls on the end of a nylon cord. Swing them back and forth and they hit at the top and they hit at the bottom and bounce back and forth. Their a real bitch to learn how to use but I got some when I was in Wichita the last time and I noticed I had them in my pocket. So I was showing a friend of mine, the guy that I work with how to use them, another guy came in and he wanted to try it so he is good friends with all the wheels there so he went out and brought in everybody. About six people and they're all standing around wanting to learn how to use these crazy things. Well, this whatever he is, came back in about an hour and a half later and picked them up off my desk and started playing with them again and stayed there for I'll bet it was an hour and a half constantly clacking these things around until he finally got them working and then he asked me if I wanted to go out and go get a Coke with him. You know it's a cardinal sin to get caught reading the newspaper and he wants me to just trip off with him. So we went out and just killed about an hour and a half middle of the afternoon just partying around. I'm not sure what to think of it yet but I'm real happy about at least even though he still doesn't strike me as a too reasonable character I least I don't have to worry about him being on my back anymore. (0:07:39.9)
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like it was a real surprise to you.
PATIENT: Yeah, amazingly that and he strikes me a lot like Ross Zuckerman used to, the guy's just dying to have someone be friendly with him because everybody is always putting shit on the poor guy. I feel sorry for him for that. It's no wonder he's always stumbling over his own mouth. He's real enough he just doesn't seem to know where he's at. It's just about the end of the quarter here isn't it? 
COUNSELOR: Yes. Next week is I guess which quarter is that?
PATIENT: I don't know what they call it. I've been gone too long.
COUNSELOR: I know, me too. (Inaudible @ 0:08:57.5)
PATIENT: I guess that's part of the reason that everybody around the frat house is on such a it's 
COUNSELOR: Yeah that could have a lot to do with it.
PATIENT: People are really acting like assholes around here.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Possible.
PATIENT: I don't know. I've gone through it before and I was well aware of what a lot of them you know I didn't see them for a week on in and when I did they had dark lines down to their chin but I realized what was going on then and you know they just studying and can't go out running around at night but for some reason or another it started like nigh on to a month ago people around there have just been getting more and more obnoxious. I should say uptight but that doesn't even seem to be it. 
COUNSELOR: Like they're so pressured their just impossible to
PATIENT: Well I don't know if it's the pressure of exams. I really doubt it. I got to thinking and until he moved out, it seems that the way things always got going was that a person that was a good friend of mine during the summer, he and I were there all summer long so we became good friends and other people were there during parts of the summer but we were the only ones there all summer long and we just got into a really gassy thing of having a good time all the time. I won't say all the time, I mean every weekend we were out finding something to do, we were in Wisconsin or out at the Mississippi playing around somewhere or another and that went on through the first quarter and then he moved and got his own apartment. The guy that took over his place is kind of withdrawn, he doesn't, you never really know what's going through his head and he and I got along okay for a while and for some reason or another he just started acting like a real bastard after a while. He wouldn't let anybody in his room. I had about a $400 record collection in there that he could use and I came up and listened to them on a stereo. So he started locking his room. I finally took my records out. It was the room, it isn't actually his room where the things are, it's (inaudible @ 0:11:08.0) who moved out but nobody's moved in there. He has the key so he locked it up and wouldn't let anybody in there. It was kind of a commons room. We all ended up there after dinner. You know we would all go up there and listen to records or something. It just kind of destroyed whatever center we had for all of us getting together and being friendly and I don't know what his point is but he's really been acting like a bastard. It has really broken things up. The only time I see anybody is at meal time and I talk to some of the other people. They noticed that there is just not the 
COUNSELOR: No cohesiveness.
PATIENT: Right. Although it wouldn't exactly have a expectant fraternity image the way we usually got together at least it was the so called brotherliness that was supposed to be there and now people just it's you have your own little cubicle and if somebody happens to run into your hall you say hi and go on (0:12:04.2) which hasn't bothered me much lately. I'm so anxious to get out of there I don't mind that much. I figure it should be about the first of June before I get enough money back together to go to Boise again. There's at least three people who will be visiting New York in the meantime and there's also the outside chance that Jessica might come up but that's pretty outside. Making sure this is still solid. On the way to work I was driving along with Josh and he's nigh on impossible to wake up so we'd taken off right down the block here and gotten to the corner of 65th and Sweeney Ave I guess it was. As we came away from the light, well no it's whatever it is where the light is just before you get to the thing right at the park, I don't know what the hell the names of them are, that he came rolling off the line, there was a car to the left of us, we had to make a left, I mentioned you can turn left from either lane
COUNSELOR: Excuse me a second.
PATIENT: Okay
COUNSELOR: (Phone rings) Hello. Yeah, he's always comes up on his own accord so he's here and all is well. Thank you. 
PATIENT: They're looking for me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I guess she doesn't know that you just come up so.
PATIENT: Oh, am I supposed to do something downstairs before I come up?
COUNSELOR: Most people sit down there and wait but it's really isn't necessary.
PATIENT: Oh, well I'm always late when I come up here. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well now it wouldn't do any good because there's nobody here between five and six. It's you know, this way is fine as far as I'm concerned. The only thing is someday you may come and find this door still closed with a don't disturb and that would just mean you would have to wait a while.
 PATIENT: Well that's happened once. I just wandered across the hall and hung out over there.
COUNSELOR: You can always sit in that staff room. Now you were coming off the light at 65th and Sweeney.
PATIENT: Oh yeah and I mentioned to him that you can turn left from either lane and I didn't really understand what he was saying but it was kind of like stop nagging. He goes I (inaudible @ 0:15:12.7) and it just kind of flashed on me I'm going to play a Tye on him and see what he does. I said all right, I'm sorry. I'll not tell you how to drive again and he went crazy. He just really blew his stack talking about how oversensitive he was and screaming, I had to keep from laughing and I couldn't really tell him why I had done what I did because I knew it wouldn't be believed but I really don't know what to think what the reaction was but it was interesting to see that violent reaction to it. 
COUNSELOR: So he didn't like it either when somebody did it to him.
PATIENT: Oh no he, I don't know whether it's a good idea now that I've done it because he's now convinced more than ever that everything that has happened is all been my fault, it's all my over sensitiveness now. 
COUNSELOR: It's almost ridiculous at this point, huh?
PATIENT: Well if it wasn't if it wasn't so impossibly troublesome, yeah it would be. 
COUNSELOR: I guess the thing that sounds so hard about it is that above and beyond the real unpleasantness that gets generated sometimes it just feels so impossible to work it through in any way to bring up the issue it sounds like he would either get mad about it or wouldn't understand what you were talking about and you really feel powerless to do anything.
PATIENT: Right. I just he's not really willing to admit unless I should accept all the blame. I'm sure, well I'm not sure, I'm sure if I would accept all the blame he'd let it go at that but to say that he's been oversensitive to him or to say that there's a problem here and I'd like to see what it is, either way, would be at least admitting the possibility that he had something to do with the problem and that would just piss him off all together again.
COUNSELOR: It almost feels like he's not willing to admit that there's a situation for which he might be or for which he might be taking some responsibility like it's either your fault or it's not.
PATIENT: Or it isn't. (0:17:25.2) That and I'm wondering since I hope to move out of that frat house as soon as possible, how I'm going to manage to do it without taking Josh with me since I could not live with him. His personal habits are just terrible, he's just the dirtiest person I've ever known. I've seen that guy go for three days and he didn't wash his hands once, I know it. Like he'll eat dinner, his hands are just black with filth and garbage from his cat, from oh god it's repulsive. Go into his room and he's got a cat box and he'll open a can of food, give half of it to the cat, a day later after it's rotted and the whole room is stinking he'll give the other half to him. I just couldn't live that way but I don't know how I would manage to trip out and find my own place without telling him that I really think that he's wrong. Which isn't the point, maybe he's not wrong, it's just not the way I want to live. It's another case where I would be condemning him. (0:18:40.1)
COUNSELOR: It almost sounds like any kind of dealing you see yourself that you're going to have to have with him is going to end up possibly unpleasantly.
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know how it ever came about. I guess since I moved up here Josh and I haven't had that much to do with each other but when I was still in Boise and especially, well Josh and I and Martin, who is in Europe, were kind of a trio. Jessup and I were together from eighth grade on and Tye joined us about senior year of high school and we were pretty much an inseparable three but especially after Jessup left Josh and I were just the closest of friends. We've never had a problem like this before. Not that I've known it but of course I don't imagine we ever had to work, be around each other quite as closely as we did before either. Anytime we were out for a good time, we were together and other than that we weren't around each other so it wasn't that much of a problem. 
COUNSELOR: No chance to rub each other the wrong way. Strong huh.
PATIENT: Hmm
COUNSELOR: I thought you were reacting to the coffee.
PATIENT: No, no, my eyes are kind of blurry. (0:21:19.2) Live dangerously when you use pewter mugs. 
COUNSELOR: Why is that dangerous?
PATIENT: Didn't you hear about that?
COUNSELOR: No. 
PATIENT: The glaze in mugs to be a workable glaze on pewter ware has to have a lead in it. There was a kid in Philadelphia that was killed by lead poisoning from pewter ware mug not too long ago. His mother mixed his orange juice in it and it finally got to him. 
C: Gee. I'll stick to crocker, thank you. (0:27:07.1) (0:29:07.2) 
PATIENT: How far is New York from Canada?
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure. I don't know.
PATIENT: Well, let's see there's nothing between here, is there anything north of here besides Canada.
COUNSELOR: Nope, don't think so.
(0:32:07.3) (0:35:07.4) (0:37:08.3) (0:40:07.3)
PATIENT: Kind of feel like I'm been trying to build something ever since I started at work. Like I've just now gotten to a position where I've gotten enough of the shit that was already there that appeared in a way that I didn't want that I could start building whatever it was, whatever it will be.
COUNSELOR: Are you speaking of something like a beginning to build like a lifestyle or a way of using your energy. Sounds like it's not a concrete (inaudible @ 0:42:08.5)
PATIENT: Well no, definitely not something you can grab hold of but it's like I feel like I have enough of the intention and the commitment and the ambition to start with whatever I'm doing now and continue without falling back into not doing anything or falling back into doing something I don't want to do or something like that. Plus having gone through it a couple of times in the little circle I feel like I'm aware enough of how things happen or what could happen, that I could avoid having it happen. God I'd hate to try and make sense out of that. 
COUNSELOR: Let me try. The image you gave me is sort of like a you've finally gotten to the starting line. You've been thinking like you've been held back by a number of things and now you're ready to start your own race. Plus you know the kinds of pitfalls that come like crop up and pull you down now and at this point you don't feel it's likely to get yanked out of the race with that.
PATIENT: Never in my life have I ever been ambitious or committed enough about something to really accomplish anything of any major import. Never did anything in school. I just never done anything. I just kind of drifted along and it used to kind of worry me that other people seem to be ambitious about things, they'd do things and if I accomplished something it was almost without me knowing it. (0:44:15.2) 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, almost by accident.
PATIENT: It's kind of the first time in my life like I couldn't say it was I am ambitious about except I want to fucking be in a better position where I'm not going to get stepped on as easy but I'm willing intent on it. Like I'm willing to commit the next six years to get through school if it takes it. I'm willing to do this, I'm willing to do that. Although I can't say how I'm going to do it. Yet, I feel confident that I will get it done. It used to be that I kind of pipe dreamed about that, that would be nice but I really hadn't any idea how I would do it. It seems much more of a feasible situation now. It seems like I can actually do it if I just go ahead and put myself to it. 
COUNSELOR: It's almost like saying I gathered for the first time in your life you really feel yourself to have some kind of sense of going somewhere, of going forward, or almost a purpose because it's not that you have a fixed goal necessarily, although I know that there are some things you feel you know you sort of talked about wanting to do but there's some sense of moving ahead in a particular way and also a feeling of being able to do that. It just wasn't neither of those things being apparent before. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it's up to a certain point, well it's been steadily awakening on me you might say for years now but I noticed that looking back I was I don't know where I was until I was probably a senior in high school. I was tripped up completely in myself. I mean other kids, some other ones and those that I talk to were aware of things going on around, they had ideas about what was going on, I was just completely lost in myself. Like I got into high school and it just really blew me apart when I realized there was a whole world out there that not only affected me but I affected it. It was like I spent my whole time up until then just tripped into myself and from then on I just kind of been going around in a daze and being a little more aware really not knowing what's going on or how it fits together or what I can do about it. I was had my eyes open but I was still just caught in the flow of traffic and now I feel like I'm not only moving along with the traffic like in a time span but I can also go ahead and maneuver myself in it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what you're expressing there is something that I was picking up. Something like a sense of you know being able to drive yourself not just drifting along like I don't know a stick in a stream.
PATIENT: That's the exact image that I used to have. A leaf in a stream that would just float along and a wave would hit it it would get knocked in a certain direction, the wind would blow it the other way. Now I feel like I'm a little more capable of steering my own course. (0:47:32.4)
COUNSELOR: It sounds like if you look back you can see this developing but suddenly it's kind of all fallen into place, this realization for you. I mean maybe not just this minute but recently.
PATIENT: Recently, I don't know. It didn't come suddenly. Like I said it's come over the last few years. Like I felt myself in this kind of position several times in different ways but this is the say the first time I felt that I could do it financially, that I could do it that I feel like just capable of continuing everything like no doubt another twenty years from now if I manage my first million and I'm sitting off in a mountain home somewhere with another one down in Acapulco I'll think well now I'm ready. Right now I'm at another point where I'm considerably more capable than before. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That look said to me, boy that was a mouthful or something like that.
PATIENT: Like how would I ever get there? 
COUNSELOR: Mean on top of the mountain with a million dollars?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
(Inaudible @ 0:48:54.9)
PATIENT: Well I don't even know if that's where I would be headed. I think Jessica and I seem to be at that kind of stage too. 
COUNSELOR: Like being able to determine what happens to the two of you?
PATIENT: That isn't yet but we're realizing that is just around the corner. When we kind of half assed committed ourselves to the possible two year wait, (inaudible @ 0:50:29.9) we were dead serious about it but I don't think we ever had any idea what we were getting into but now after suffering through what we have, we've kind of threw our actions and because of our actions, disconnecting us from being any other way we're kind of out of a social realm except for Jessica and I (inaudible @ 0:50:55.9) we are committed so that even if we didn't want to we'd have a helluva a time changing the situation before she would be eighteen anyway and not that we want to, it's just that we're committed not only by our own standards but by what's happened and by the way we feel now but I have a feeling that in another eight to ten months we'll kind of reap the harvest of waiting and going through all the bullshit that we have.
COUNSELOR: Yeah and it sounds like (inaudible @ 0:51:35.8) and hearing about you talk about it and also knowing myself what it's like to be separated from (inaudible @ 0:51:40.4) it's a well deserved (inaudible @ 0:51:43.2) 
PATIENT: I plan to enjoy it. 
(Inaudible @ 0:52:28.9)
PATIENT: Just as you said that my stomach growled so hard it put my eyes out of focus. 
END TRANSCRIPT
