TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Well, what is that about? I don't want to do this.
PATIENT: It is hard.
COUNSELOR: To think of the bad things.
PATIENT: It is hard - it is uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: It is uncomfortable not knowing how to deal with it - what it might come out looking like.
PATIENT: The thing about hiring someone - the equipment, Beth's teachers from (inaudible 0:26). There was no artist and she has the same problem as an artist, having to make herself, come out with a system to make goals - I am kind of loosely following it through Beth - and it works. But no one...the thing is I don't really need her for that. No one can make me do the goal. I can have the plan but if I don't follow it, what is the difference? Only me can make me sit down and do the work.
COUNSELOR: Right. You are going to have to be the one to develop the tolerance or the interest - and that is scary.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I mean, you are not tolerating (inaudible 1:05)
PATIENT: I hope I just keep remembering that. If I get to this (inaudible 1:16) report. Once I sit down and write, that it is good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, okay.
PATIENT: I will give you the check and then we will see about next week.
COUNSELOR: Can you put...
(SESSION ENDS) (1:36)
PATIENT: Why I cannot get the project to work.
COUNSELOR: People are copying out the fine copy. (inaudible 1:56)?
PATIENT: Yeah, so what have I to do?
COUNSELOR: Nothing. You just keep that for your records. I guess it is (inaudible 2:02) policy when you are conducting a research with live subjects.
PATIENT: Okay. I will claim it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Do I get release papers.
COUNSELOR: Release papers? Oh yeah, you can cancel at any time.
PATIENT: It says you can cancel at any time.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: How are you?
COUNSELOR: It seems like a while since I last seen you?
PATIENT: Because I was here last Tuesday. You guys are swamped.
COUNSELOR: I see, okay.
PATIENT: I don't want to be here today.
COUNSELOR: Why not? (2:58)
PATIENT: Too busy. I am running here, I am running there - I am running all over the place.
COUNSELOR: Aw. You don't want to be here?
PATIENT:(Inaudible 3:06) and riding all the way back down. But then I was here.
COUNSELOR: I don't know - it didn't sound like it.
PATIENT: It has nothing to do with you. What I am saying about that, I am thinking: "Well, alright, I don't have anything to talk about." And she will say: "Well, what is that about (laughs)?"
COUNSELOR: That you don't want to be here.
PATIENT: Yeah. Nothing is really bothering me right now - I feel really good. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: That I wouldn't want to hear about things when you are doing well.
PATIENT: Yeah, you told me you don't.
COUNSELOR: When did I say that?
PATIENT: You said your job was to dig up things. Is that a new clock?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it looks to be, doesn't it.
PATIENT: You said your job was to dig up things. I don't care - well maybe there are some bad things in my good thing.
COUNSELOR: I don't remember saying that.
PATIENT: You did. You said it was your job to dig up things - not bad things but things that were maybe bothering me or maybe they are hidden. Maybe I misinterpreted it then.
COUNSELOR: Does that mean that I can't also hear a good thing?
PATIENT: I don't know. You just seem like you never wanted to.
COUNSELOR: Mmm.
PATIENT: That is my interpretation. What is that smirk for?
COUNSELOR: Well, I am not sure. You might be picking up something that I wasn't aware of but I feel very open to good things.
PATIENT: Well, first I did part of my show down at Double Door - the show that I am working on, which is good. (inaudible 4:43) they are giving me 10 minutes. They are giving me (inaudible 4:47) as a standup comic and there are funny magicians and they do sketch comedy. That is kind of scary in itself. I mean, I will do it but it is just scary - really putting myself out on a limb. Will I be good? And thinking: "I don't know if that is funny - does it have to be funny? Will people understand what it is?" Because they are coming to see these sketch comedy artists and my act is definitely not sketch comedy. It is pretty much what I would call performance art.
COUNSELOR: So is this a good thing?
PATIENT: It is good - it is a risk. I got an audition for an interview with a commercial agent - just now I got off the phone - it was really nice. It is really funny. When I get up every day and I say: "Something terrific is going to happen today." And it does. And yesterday I was coming home and I said: "God, I (inaudible 5:51) today. Well I guess something new terrific happened; I got paid, I cashed my check. That is pretty good." 
Then I was thinking of a friend of mine that I met while I was doing the show in the fall. He has been here almost six to eight years. He works a lot, whether he is doing paid things or not paid things. People know him - he is really nice. I am thinking: "I am real cynical. I may have friends but I am cynical." Maybe that is why people call and when I got home, a writer called me and he wants me to do a reading for his (inaudible 6:20) for this play. Right before I went over I said: 'Well, maybe something terrific will happen today." And that was it. (6:27)
COUNSELOR: You make it sound like it is all chance?
PATIENT: It is chance. Well, it is not chance. I have been working real hard and putting it out there. Still, when I think of Phil and I think of me in the show, I would be backstage talking about that actor and that actor. Because of my own insecurities. Phil is just nice and fun, people are attracted to him. They are attracted to me but not in the same way.
COUNSELOR: I am not sure I understand. You mean, you are backstage (inaudible 7:03) joking bring them down?
PATIENT: Not joking. I am talking more about like this is our...it is different when you are doing it in a critical way in a sense that you can talk about another actor because you are going to learn about it, discuss it. That is fine but not because where it would come out of me during that particular show because I was unhappy.
COUNSELOR: So sometimes when you are unhappy about your own performance, you pick on another actor?
PATIENT: Oh yeah. That is...I have to learn to keep my mouth shut - about that stuff.
COUNSELOR: I am not sure I understand how you, you know, your concerned about it.
PATIENT: Because I don't feel good about it. I don't want to be a light actor like that - that gossips, talks bad of people. I feel like I am a criminal committing a crime of the tongue. 
COUNSELOR: Are you afraid that something is going to happen?
PATIENT: No, I just don't feel healthy about it. I feel, like, poisonous when I do it. I remember coming into work the other day, I was so furious with my boss. A (inaudible 8:09) who is getting paid to work 40 hours is maybe working 20 while I covered his ass all the time. I came in really angry Friday, all pissed off and bitching and everybody. I went home and thought: "I hate feeling this way. I either want to change it or do something about it."
COUNSELOR: You are saying a lot of things there. I am wondering: "Oh boy, lots of good stuff here." But what I am struck by too is that you started saying: "Okay, lots of good stuff."
PATIENT: Yeah, hoping that something will come out of it.
COUNSELOR: But what happened to the good stuff? You suddenly got derailed by all the bad stuff that you are not happy. 
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Is there something uncomfortable about talking about the good stuff? Or feeling the good stuff? (8:57)
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess I feel I don't deserve it.
COUNSELOR: What is it that you don't deserve to get?
PATIENT: I don't know...be happy. Feel like I am deserving for God and the universe to give me things...because I complain too much.
COUNSELOR: Because you are bitchy to those actors?
PATIENT: Yeah, too cynical. I mean, you were talking (inaudible 9:41) to help me get this...I figured I would really pick people's brains. I got this guy a job at Union Bank &amp; Trust and he - I have known him and his girlfriend; actors for a long time. He works in commercials in television. So I just said: "Well, I just went to your agent. (Inaudible 10:00) been happily, married away." And I was thinking: "What am I going to do when I get in there asides just be myself even though I can't be anything else? People can't really see me in two minutes. Like if they came to work with me, they would see me. I can't go into an office and sit and talk to somebody - I hate it. I don't know how to be myself in an office situation like that.
COUNSELOR: What does this have to do with the feeling that you don't deserve to be happy?
PATIENT: Because that is the feeling: "I am not good enough. I am not talented enough. I am not personable enough." I don't know how to be myself so I figured: "Well, if I can't be myself I don't really deserve this agent anyway.
COUNSELOR: That is a lot that you are not really clear on.
PATIENT: Do you not understand that?
COUNSELOR: No, I am curious about not understanding that.
PATIENT: You know, like. If I am not going to get this job - this agent is not going to send me out and sign me - then it really isn't that good a news anyway. It is not good fortune to fall upon if I am not going to get it anyway.
COUNSELOR: But then what does that have to do with sitting in this office? And not wanting to be...feeling uncomfortable with who you are?
PATIENT: Because I am not good enough. I feel maybe I am not comfortable in his or her office because I don't feel good enough.
COUNSELOR: I am totally lost.
PATIENT: Do you not see how the two coincide?
COUNSELOR: I don't know how I am having such a hard time understanding that. 
PATIENT: Let me know what you don't understand. (11:58)
COUNSELOR: I don't know. For some reason it just sounds like (inaudible 12:02) that I am not able to make with you in terms of how you are thinking about this. I don't know what it is.
PATIENT: I really don't know how to help.
COUNSELOR: Is there something that you want to talk about or are you feeling like: "Ah. Well, there we go!"
PATIENT: No, I just have really long opinions about six o'clock every day.
COUNSELOR: Maybe it is part of...
PATIENT: No, no. I do want to talk about it. I feel that this is something I don't like - putting myself down. I really don't have anything to justify it with. Why should I feel like I am not good enough? It is like I am talking to this actor and I am putting him on a pedestal Because he has always been in commercials and films. I am talking to him and this guy is 40 years old and he is this scared and insecure little boy. And vulnerable. He is just like everybody else.
COUNSELOR: But in a way - maybe even now - you feel like somehow where you are - which is being tired and not wanting to be here - isn't good enough either and you are trying to work hard and do the work of the good patient.
PATIENT: I don't feel that way today actually. Talking about the good stuff, for some reason, is stuff that bothers me about me. 
COUNSELOR: I am pretty confused right now. I am finding it hard to find a groove that we can work into together.
PATIENT: To dig up.
COUNSELOR: You think that I have this thing that I want to get at?
PATIENT: Yeah, not to annoy me but it is your job.
COUNSELOR: What are you doing to help me or prevent me doing that?
PATIENT: I am not trying to prevent you at all.
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.)
PATIENT: I am not. I am saying: "Look, here is how I think I am f***** up because I don't think I am good enough for this stuff that is befalling me which is great stuff that I really intellectually know I deserve but since I am thinking: "Oh my God, I am not good enough. I am personable enough. I am not a good enough person." And I should be able to get this agent.
COUNSELOR: Well, is there some concern that if we start digging that we will find something that...?
PATIENT: No, dig away.
COUNSELOR: Well you say that Bruce but I am not entirely sure that you mean that.
PATIENT: No, I do.
COUNSELOR: Or if that is even going to be possible, you know. I don't know, I find myself a little bit wary of that. You are saying that but I don't trust you. (15:06)
PATIENT: (Chuckles.) Why is that?
COUNSELOR: Because I feel in some ways you are not receptive to digging right now. There is a part of you that, you know, somehow isn't facilitating - hopping around, making it hard for me to follow.
PATIENT: I mean, is that a bad thing?
COUNSELOR: I don't think it is bad. I would like to find out what that means. Only when you say "well, go ahead" do I think "hey, wait a minute," you know?
PATIENT: I am not being open.
COUNSELOR: I don't think so. I am not experiencing you being very open right now.
PATIENT: I am. Why do you feel that way?
COUNSELOR: I feel like you are making it hard to work. That there is something hard here about working together and I don't feel you are helping me figure out what it is.
PATIENT: I don't know. I feel open. Maybe I not looking or responding open but I do. I really don't know what you want me to say. I didn't feel like...I didn't want to come in...but I don't feel I have consciously tried to avoid you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I believe that but maybe I need to get a better idea of why you didn't want to come in.
PATIENT: I guess Because I have to take time to sit down and the other way I keep moving. Not that I consciously think: 'Oh boy, if I go there I am really going to have to face my problems." I don't consciously think that. I just think: "I keep moving - I like being that busy." So I am busy that I don't have the time to sit down and think why my life is this way or that way. Besides, I like it the way it is. I am doing all that I can for it. I don't want to keep questioning it but if I have idle time, I will start pushing that. Like the same thing as I said before: I don't want to work with catering and waiting anymore but at the same time it gives me something to be at every day - the other way is harder. I get the same way now. (18:11)
COUNSELOR: And what role did I play in that? (inaudible 18:18) and started to question you?
PATIENT: A weight - my responsibility to you.
COUNSELOR: Just getting into things; delving into things? Do you need material to work with? That kind of thing? Dig up the goods basically?
PATIENT: How do you feel about that?
COUNSELOR: How do I feel about it?
PATIENT: Does that make you feel responsible or...am I the bad guy?
COUNSELOR: No, not at all. I just thought it might be a bad feeling to have.
PATIENT: I guess that before I thought about: "Well, why would I come in today?" But if I say, "well, I have don't have anything to talk about," what would you say?"
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I don't know. My feeling is if they are there or not, there is something to talk about. You have some concerns about what we might end up talking about?
PATIENT: Again, I think I do. I am not consciously saying that: "Oh, I don't want to talk about things that hurt."
COUNSELOR: "I don't want to go there."
PATIENT: I am not faking that I don't want to go there but maybe I don't. I really don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Now stop asking me (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Don't ask me what?
PATIENT: Whether or should go there or not. I just really don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't mind just to sit and wait with you. If you don't want to go there, we will just take it easy for a while.
PATIENT: And then maybe I can tell you about all the good things that will then come around to that other thing. Okay?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. We tried that before but somehow we got back to those bad things again and I don't think I was driving. I think you were.
PATIENT: My friend Missy - we went out to dinner - who comes here. Her husband who comes here.
COUNSELOR: A-ha.
PATIENT: (Inaudible 20:53) Missy says: "You are starting to sound like, you guys, your therapy is the right therapy and right medication because all I do is cry the entire time." And I said: "But my therapist would love that I cry (chuckles)." And I said to Martin: 'Did you ever cry at those?" And he said: "No way." And then Missy said: "Oh, from the time I walk in to the time I walk out, I cry." So I said: "Well, you are going to have to go and see Rosemary." The other good thing was...
COUNSELOR: Wait a minute (laughs).
PATIENT: That was just fun - that was good. (21:28)
COUNSELOR: That is a good thing?
PATIENT: Yeah, that is in good fun.
COUNSELOR: But I have a questions about that.
PATIENT: Okay, Go ahead.
COUNSELOR: I am curious about your thinking that I wanted you to cry.
PATIENT: No, I am teasing.
COUNSELOR: No, no, no, but I think there might be some value in that. I really am wondering if there is anything in that.
PATIENT: No, I am aware of my avoidance.
COUNSELOR: And I don't get any part of it at all? Nothing that you may be picking up in me that is suggesting to you that I want you to sort of...?
PATIENT: Yeah, definitely. That you want me to go there - to experience my feelings which I think is good. I like that.
COUNSELOR: You do like it?
PATIENT: A little bit. As humorous as the image of me running around in a tutu and a little bell around (inaudible 22:16) and you locking the door behind you: it is funny but do I really want to do it here?
COUNSELOR: The tutu - I think that was a lot of information (chuckles).
PATIENT: I have got a little baby picture. (inaudible 22:31) I mean I do - I do like that.
COUNSELOR: But is there (inaudible 22:39) you have about that too? You like the agenda but maybe there is something about the way I am going about it that doesn't work for you?
PATIENT: No, it is not the way that you go about it. It is my responsibility...I am feeling a heavy responsibility when I come in here - like I said last week - to perform. Not perform - deliver; come up with the goods. And that is pressure to me. I didn't say that you did it - I think I did say that but I don't mean it - I feel that is what I am supposed to do. I am trying to get a (inaudible 23:34) "I really like her; the way you work." I mean we were talking at the table and I said: "I really like it. I am finally learning how this therapy is working." That is for good for me, as opposed to somebody telling me: "Don't you think if it made sense if you did all my (inaudible 23:59) It is a combination of what you do as well. (Inaudible 24:13) So I met with my family. (24:17) 
COUNSELOR: Your whole family?
PATIENT: We had a great time. I decided we had to have a minion even though it only refers to deaths.
COUNSELOR: What is a minion?
PATIENT: A minion is 10 people. Like when somebody dies...I know when my father died you had to have at least 10 men - 10 people - there to say a service. So It was my cousin's 20th party at this restaurant but it was really, really good. My mother is trying very hard. I told you I spoke to her. She made confessions and I made confessions. Actually, it was the first time I was proud of my family - proud to be part of my family. It was nice. We will see what happens. I still want to be real guarded. I don't know if I saw you since last time I drove the train. I think I am cured. I can say thus far, I have been cured. We took the local down to the Eternal Flame and half the stop was in this complete u-turn which I was not even aware of and we were just stopped on the way back. So it kept stopping - two or three times - and it was like: "What is your level? What is your level?" "I'm disappointed - it is only a four tops." "That is all?"
COUNSELOR: Level of anxiety?
PATIENT: The whole week I keep it charted in 15 segments. And I said: "I am sorry to disappoint you, but I am probably going to have to cut you loose pretty soon. You are going to have to get your 50 bucks from somebody else. They said: "No, that is the best compliment that I can get." I just need to do it on my own without him now. Even if he is in another car, I am pretty sure that I can. I mean, I know I can. And he said: "Well, that is really surprising." And I said: "If I can sit on a train for a half hour from 79th Street to 101st, there is no reason why I can't sit on this train." I am so proud of myself because in the past I always thought I didn't have discipline. I didn't start, I didn't finish. And here is something that I had a problem with, I sought out help, I did the homework, I had the desire and I fixed it. I am just really, really proud of that. I said: "You see Ted, you can talk yourself out of that. This was chance, this was luck - this was hard work.
COUNSELOR: And courage.
PATIENT: And courage. And it has taught me so much - as I said before - it has taught me so many other things. To think about not wanting to go and do that show; I know I can do it because if I can do the train I can do anything. That is my Vietnam; that is my gun in the mouth.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that is terrific.
PATIENT: Thank you. And I tell people that...well, they don't quite understand because they don't understand the fear - of having fear. (inaudible 27:22) When I go on the subway, I am always looking at something - the shoes. Same thing as an elevator but without that panic, you wouldn't understand.
COUNSELOR: Aren't you very (inaudible 27:36)
PATIENT: Yeah, it is good. I mean, I still have apprehension. And he said: "You will have that for a long time because you taught yourself to be apprehensive - that makes sense." Because I just want to feel like I don't think about it but he said: "Yeah, that takes time. And as long as you go and you can deal with it, that is the thing." I have found it easier being stalled in a tunnel than I did sitting on a train for a half hour because it was so long - I just wanted to get off of it. Because it is such hard work. so this time I really just want to go and not take levels - just sit there and soak up the ride or do what I do. He said I can always call on him. I just want to be able to share that with other people. I mean a lot of (inaudible 28:30) although I wouldn't pretend to be one but I just wish I could help other people deal with those fears. I have a good friend, as I said, that cannot get on an elevator but she won't even take his number down.
COUNSELOR: She won't take this guy's number down?
PATIENT: No. I wish I could be helpful but she had never come against a panic attack because she is never getting on an elevator. I think once or twice a month she has to take an elevator. I think she waits and waits and waits until it is perfectly clear and holds her breath. The last time she had to get in one of those coffin elevators in a beauty parlor - a salon - and she went up there and stayed there for two hours. She wouldn't come down. Finally, the maintenance man had to get in there with her like this. I know how scary those lifts can get for her.
COUNSELOR: What do you think is in you though that (inaudible 29:27)
PATIENT: Desire and also I knew that I could learn to teach myself to think differently. And that is what it was for me - to stop thinking about it. The one thing he said to me that would help me more than anything was not the stalled train - it was my interpretation of the stalled train. That was on my way to (inaudible 29:54) That physical reaction comes from something that can happen. If someone came, like Colin Ferguson with a machine gun, I would have back up - I would have something to deal with the situation. I would have him to deal with - I could attack that situation. This is something you can't touch - it is just fear. And that is the worst thing. I really believe God brought me here so I could have panic attacks, so I could face it, so I could improve other parts of my life. I was trying to write a mission statement the other day - my mission statement - and I couldn't quite come up with it. I couldn't come up with an entertainer, which is not good enough. I don't think God put me here to be Al Jolson. I was trying to think about really why I was put here - what my mission is and how it is to help people through...what? I don't know. Entertaining somebody sounds too circus. And it is really difficult. I can't define what it is yet.
COUNSELOR: Your mission?
PATIENT: I know it is to help make people feel good about themselves. I didn't know how to do that in (inaudible 31:15) but I don't know...through my energy; through my passion; through humor - I think that is what it was - through my salesperson skills. I always loved Les Brown, that African-American motivational speaker. He has been on TV lots of times - always wanted his job; he does a great job. He travels the country and makes people feel good about themselves. Everybody learned. He grew up with his grandmother or something from rags to riches. I always really liked that and I hope that one day people will come to me and say: "How did you do that?" Makes me feel good to make them feel good.
COUNSELOR: The only way I guess you can help them is by having faced up to your own fears so that you absolutely know what other people think.
PATIENT: No one would believe it unless I had it. I don't know how to get involved in it or should I just call the ADDA - who I am involved with and am a member of - and talk to them and see. They have groups with many people who are success stories. I mean, I can't imagine being agoraphobic but Cory has (inaudible 32:52) This woman is just learning to get out of the house. I know where it comes from but I can't imagine somebody ever doing that. (33:03)
I also learned how important it is to take time out - which I am not doing this weekend; I have got myself out on a date - but when that tension level starts getting too high and that barrel starts to overflow, that is when those attacks - those anxiety attacks - can come. And that is where it is hard because I don't want to slow down long enough to relax.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm.
PATIENT: I get sick when I relax. I need a vacation for my vacation. It is hard for me to just go. This was actually a very good week though. Having seen (inaudible 33:39) was enough. I am not single. My daughter. When am I ever going to get the house and the car? When am I ever going to stop worrying about money? Stupid stuff - I am doing all I can. Sixteen hours a day, whatever it takes to get up at 5.30 to go the gym; come home and work on the voice work; send out resumes - I am doing all night (inaudible 34:04). And realizing that, yes, my day job takes up more hours but I don't have the time or the energy to put the equal amount into it every day.
COUNSELOR: Well, I am curious about that aspect of slowing up and slowing down.
PATIENT: Most people look so sad. It almost hurts. I don't know what bothers me. It is hurting that it is: "Okay, I am giving up. I am giving over to this job thing." Or that it is I am putting more time into this. Maybe I am holding onto the job for a reason, I don't know. I don't know how you do that. Did you clean yourself out or are you just accepting or am I just saying: "Okay, I am going with the flow. Get in the boat; I am going where the seabird goes."
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible 34:52)
PATIENT: I don't know how to distinguish the difference between trying to...I don't know how to put this whether I am trying, but I am going to come up with a really good way and you are going to help me. I don't know how to decipher the difference between br-br-br-br-breakfast - the American Express way. You want it? You buy it. You go wherever you want - this frenzy. I will just go wherever the tide takes me. I have control and I have the orders and I can do what I want as long as I am not (inaudible 35:18) my will but I am not going to speed the whole way - I am going to float down.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Between breaking and putting on the gas pedal.
COUNSELOR: A-ha. A-ha. In some sense when you are floating and you have got the oars, you are more in control of your destination.
PATIENT: I think so.
COUNSELOR: And there is something about that that is difficult - and I have you speak about that before.
PATIENT: Yes, and it is also:" Have I been doing enough?" Being, for me, is harder than just doing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, Yeah.
PATIENT: I am trying to just "be." (36:03)
COUNSELOR: You know it is funny because I am very conscious of how that plays out in here and I am very conscious of wanting to give you room to "be."
PATIENT: But I am "doing?"
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Because if you were just going to "be," I wouldn't need to give you room - you would just "be". You know what I mean? Somehow I feel that for you to "be" I have to, kind of, make the space...you know, accommodate you, make the space for us - you know what I mean? Even now as I am speaking I feel like I have a big impact on you. You are probably trying to figure out: "Well, what does she think; what does she want?" You know?
PATIENT: I was just thinking now (inaudible 36:50) "This is good, settle down. This is just so great that I could figure this and I left work and I am not going back."
COUNSELOR: Wait a minute!
PATIENT: I am. It has just hit me. I was like: "This is all good. This is very stimulating." I wasn't taking time out. I didn't want to - I wanted to do this. It is good for me.
COUNSELOR: But you know it is funny because I was bringing up another point which is probably more of a problem.
PATIENT: Which is?
COUNSELOR: Which is that I was aware of making space for you to be in here.
PATIENT: I don't know what you mean by that.
COUNSELOR: Well, when you were speaking about wanting to indulge in the good things that have been going on, I was aware of sort of saying: "Okay, there is room for that in here. You being quiet and listening.
PATIENT: And?
COUNSELOR: Well, there was a way that I felt you were not completely into...
PATIENT: Yes, I agree with that.
COUNSELOR: Into...
PATIENT: Into soaking up the space.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Why the frown?
PATIENT: I guess because part of me would think...I know intellectually I want to have the space but the other thing..."Well, those are good things but I wanted to talk about what is bothering you." Even though that needs space too. I don't know what I am talking about.
COUNSELOR: What is going on right now?
PATIENT: I don't know (chuckles). I thought I had a point - I just lost it. It is true: just like in here and outside once I just sit down and breath and be an adult, I am pretty terrific. Oftentimes - and more and more - I like myself. I do - I realize that I am pretty swell. I believe in myself. I told you about my (inaudible 39:10) allergy, didn't I? (39:12)
COUNSELOR: Well, you know I am more curious about the talking and not being sure of what is going on.
PATIENT: Say that again.
COUNSELOR: Well, you were speaking sense and then said: "I don't know what I am talking about." You know?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, I was curious about that.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know - it was dragging at straws or throwing air or what.
COUNSELOR: You know, I can listen to you but then I think...and that is one thing I can do...but I am curious about what else is going on. What is going on here - what is it like to be in here talking to me? How can you feel good about yourself or bad about yourself with another person. There are lots of...
PATIENT: Well, I am definitely...what is that?
COUNSELOR: I just said very rich.
PATIENT: I am definitely influenced by you or other people. I am trying not to be. In the sense of how you feel. If you are feeling shitty that doesn't mean I have to feel shitty.
COUNSELOR: So is it that you are trying not to feel influenced by me? Is there an awareness?
PATIENT: No, there is not an awareness.
COUNSELOR: Not that. There is not an awareness but you just said you are trying not to be influenced by me. I don't know if I picked that up wrong.
PATIENT: No, I didn't say that. I meant I am trying not to be influenced. I am influenced by other people. I am learning in here that if that doesn't sound right to me, then that is wrong. Let us not go that way. You are going the wrong way from there. But I also know that, yeah, I am influenced, you even said it to me - you reacting this way to me because you think I should go that way.
COUNSELOR: You know it is funny because I do think that goes on a bit in here but I feel to work co-operatively - where we are both still driving - is still a little bit more difficult. I will say something that is real important and you will say something, completely...you are on your own track. Our communication is very funny that way. I guess I do sort of wonder.
PATIENT: Well it takes me half of the sessions to get there or whatever. It seems to me that the latter part of our sessions is more truthful.
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: Because it feels like we are going through quicksand at the beginning.
COUNSELOR: What about right now?
PATIENT: Right now I feel good - stimulated. It is like we are both not interested in driving. Did you notice? (42:00)
COUNSELOR: Not that we are both not driving but I sure feel like I am a sixth grader. 
PATIENT: Do you really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I am just not sure at all what is going on.
PATIENT: In what sense? What all is going on in here - me?
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm, I am trying to make sense of it but, you know, I just guess that is part of it.
PATIENT: I would imagine talking to me, it is probably hard to make sense a lot of times. I switch around; I do things like mental acrobatics. What happens a lot - I will tell you exactly what happens a lot to me; just to me - what happens for me is that you will throw the ball at me and I am trying to figure out exactly how I feel - I am. I am not quite sure sometimes. It is not like I am trying to give you the answer you want, I am trying to really concentrate and think because I will say to myself: "Am I really covering up how I feel?" Because I know I do that.
COUNSELOR: Maybe a little bit. Are you trying to help me out?
PATIENT: Right now I am.
COUNSELOR: Maybe I am (inaudible 43:33) about how you feel (inaudible 43:35)
PATIENT: It is contagious!
COUNSELOR: I don't feel very good.
PATIENT: (Shouts) "Welcome aboard! She is coming."
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) It is a little disturbing. I feel very, like, in a fog.
PATIENT: Welcome to my world (chuckles)! Well, I know because a lot of it Rosemary is...my head is fascinating everyone. It is this brain. Am I saying that because that is the way I feel? Am I saying it Because I want you to feel good? Am I saying it Because someone else is saying it? Am I saying it because I am trying too hard? I mean, I know at times in work - I have to play games at work - because it is my job and I know when I am doing it there, well I am kissing somebody's ass. I have to do it sometimes - pretend that I like people sometimes when I can't stand them. That is much more cut and dry for me. 
COUNSELOR: You know, my head is really buzzing?
PATIENT: What is up?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. It is like I am feeling sorry.
PATIENT: Oh, it must be painful (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I don't know. Does it look like I am in pain? (45:01)
PATIENT: No, no.
COUNSELOR: It is very curious. I have never had this before.
PATIENT: Oh golly, what did I do?
COUNSELOR: Either that or you just left a great impression on me (chuckles.)
PATIENT: "Yeah, well I wasn't quite sure if it was a great impression darling (ph)." I don't know - all this school work and I haven't learned a damn thing (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: I hardly think that.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You are giving yourself too much credit Ted.
PATIENT: I have to.
COUNSELOR: (Chuckles.)
PATIENT: In the beginning I find myself very calm. I will just sit here and you are looking at me and you are going: "Start." That is the sense I get from you. "Go - the light is green." And I don't know where I want to go. What do you say to that? How do you feel about it?
COUNSELOR: How do I feel about...?
PATIENT: What I just said about.
COUNSELOR: Well, my reaction is to kind of say: "Just say that." Do you, what is the term...are you here now? Do you know where you are at? You know. That would probably cut some of the confusion a little bit (chuckles).
PATIENT: If I said that, so Rosemary, you would say?
COUNSELOR: It has been great, let us drive (inaudible 46:29)
PATIENT: Well, if you sit in a driveway you are facing the same way so you are not directly looking at someone.
COUNSELOR: Ah, oh, there is that.
PATIENT: That is not true.
COUNSELOR: Well, it is perfect for us I think.
PATIENT: That is not how I deal with it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: It doesn't seem to be as difficult for you as it is for me. You seem very comfortable.
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe I am a little bit more open to what it might mean. It is all pretty good that I feel really awkward.
PATIENT: I feel the same way at auditions. Even though someone may be hoping that I am going to be the next John Travolta or whoever walks through the door, I still feel this gigantic magnifying glass being held up. And I know that it is my interpretation of the situation. I want to see what I can do. I want to see who I am.
COUNSELOR: They are sussing you.
PATIENT: They are sussing me - it is a fact. And it is my interpretation of what that sussing means. I guess what they are saying, well they hope I am really good but that puts a lot of pressure. I don't know what they consider really good.
COUNSELOR: Right, but I think also in that situation...in that situation and also in here, you are assuming that we have...that I have an idea already of what you should be rather than at a certain level, saying: "Who is this guy? What is going on in him? And what can he evoke in me that I don't know about? What can he show me about myself that I don't know?" (48:02)
PATIENT: Does that mean I should try to evoke or...see what I am saying?
COUNSELOR: I can see how it gets very complicated.
PATIENT: It does because I can't be me when I have got that pressure on my head. You know: "Go be you." I cannot do that. Only when I feel relaxed and in control.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I haven't figured out how to deal with that situation.
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: I feel I don't need this. Well, I am uncomfortable. My friends, my family, my work. How do I learn to do that - just be, I don't know, what is your suggestion?
COUNSELOR: I guess it is practice but, you know, I have seen that part of it. You know how this guy...what is the guy's name that helped you with the (inaudible 49:06)?
PATIENT: Cory.
COUNSELOR: It is like he took you underground and was there with you and in a sense held your hand and said: "Don't be afraid - don't be afraid. I am right here." And really allowed you to face up to a scary process - the panic, the fear. And in a sense this is a bit like that. Something scary (inaudible 49:32) "Don't be afraid. What could this mean?" It is a bit of that and you don't really need me to do that. You can do it with Terri. You can do it with your other friends if you like. To not be so afraid of not knowing and thinking about knowing exactly what it is. Come see what comes up. We could do that in here. (Inaudible 50:00) as my impressions develop, maybe you can start doing it with other people.
PATIENT: Thanks.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so is next Thursday okay?
PATIENT: I think so. You know, I think I have a job that night. (50:24)
END TRANSCRIPT
