TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Cole came.
COUNSELOR: Oh, right - he came.
PATIENT: He tried to make my life difficult on Thursday or Friday. He was just like: "Well I want to take the train." And I said: "Well, I would like to drive." And he was just like, he was about to, like, explode about it because he was having a really bad day. I spoke to his friend. So I decided to take the train, yeah. That was no big deal and then Saturday, we were running out and he was like: "Oh, we will just drive tomorrow." And I was like: "Right." So I just ended up driving.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: It is just the same crap that is going on but we had another few conversations and...Today, we had a conversation - again it always comes back to him talking about how insecure I am and he doesn't know if he can be with someone who requires so much attention all the time and needs someone to make them feel good, you know.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm.
PATIENT: I don't think I am like that - that was him. But after yesterday and today, today I realized that it really isn't about me. He really has all these anxieties about work and everything and this morning he was all tense and he was like: "I am anxious about the week." And I was like: "Okay." I called him in his car and I was like talking through it because he always telling me how I am not capable of being his friend because I am always consumed with myself and in the context of our relationship, he is right. I am. He is like: "Mae, you know, why do you think that if I am in a bad mood, why do you think it is about you? Why is it always that, you know, you take it out on me and you shut me out." The truth is, it isn't about me and I don't have to make it about me. You know, and I already have. and today was the first time I really felt it is really not about me. I accepted what he was saying - I finally heard him and listened to him. I don't think it is just suddenly out of nowhere that we have had so many conversations about it but...
COUNSELOR: So you were able to let go of some of that anxiety?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think all (inaudible 2:37) would have driven me off and it didn't. And all along he has been saying it does and I haven't been listening to him. I have been sure it does, you know? So that is clinical (ph) I think.
COUNSELOR: How come?
PATIENT: Because it feels good. I don't feel the pressure and the burden in me. I am (inaudible 2:57) trying to be supportive of him because I am not totally concerned with myself and worried about myself. Because I really, really believed him and I never had before. (3:08)
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) When you asked me: "Isn't that good?"
PATIENT: I don't know - it just feels good. And you are smiling, so.
COUNSELOR: It does sound good to me.
PATIENT: Yeah. But the weird thing is I haven't believed him at all and now that I feel this way I think: 'Have I really been over reacting all this time?" All this time he is trying to do (inaudible 3:42)and I am fighting him on it. Of course it is not all me - it takes two people to interact - but I really...I don't know. If this is what it has always been and I have always taken the way he feels personally - and now that I am seeing it clearly I am not taking it personally and I see how it doesn't have any...if it isn't me.
COUNSELOR: What do you make of that?
PATIENT: What do I make of it?
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about that? Can you answer that question?
PATIENT: What kind of led up to this was...what day did I see you? Tuesday?
COUNSELOR: A-ha.
PATIENT: I felt really lousy and I left and I called Cole and he was concerned about me and he called me periodically during the day to see if I was okay. Tuesday was football night so he said: "What are you doing?" I didn't have a show or something. I was just going to go to the gym and go home and chill out. Now to him, he assumed that going home meant to his house because whenever I am not working I go to his house - I mean, I am always there - but I meant...I guess maybe I was testing him but I didn't realize it at the time...I meant I am going to my house. I kind of wanted to just go to my house and be alone but I didn't say that to him. I went home and did my own thing. I left a message for him at about a quarter to 10 saying: "Hi, how are you? I am home - give me a call." Meanwhile, he was concerned about me because I was having a bad day and he kept calling me at his house to tell me that he would be home in a little while blah, blah, blah. And I wasn't there and he was looking out to see...you know, he didn't try calling my apartment. He assumed I was going to be at his apartment. I just got a sense of - when I was on the street - of how ridiculous I think this all is. (5:58)
COUNSELOR: You unhatch (ph) it again.
PATIENT: I just felt really self-conscious. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Why is that?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know. It feels so silly to talk about. Maybe it is all so silly, you know.
COUNSELOR: You were feeling like you were silly talking about it?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You were afraid of being silly?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Are you concerned that I think you are silly?
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, I just got self-conscious. But anyway, let me continue.
COUNSELOR: I am curious about you saying that.
PATIENT: You know, for what? (Chuckles) If I am uncomfortable. I don't think, I know: It is uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: But I think it might be important?
PATIENT: Why? I mean maybe but...I always do that, don't I? When I don't want to talk about it (laughs).
COUNSELOR: Why, were you putting me on the spot?
PATIENT: Yes (laughs).
COUNSELOR: Yes, you always do that.
PATIENT: Oh my God.
COUNSELOR: Why do you always think you are putting me on the spot when you do that?
PATIENT: Mmm, I guess it is easier than dealing with it myself which is kind of what I do with Cole also. If I feel insecure, I throw it at him.
COUNSELOR: Well, let us keep it in here. Are you feeling insecure now?
PATIENT: No, well maybe a little bit. No, it felt more like...a feeling came up that I didn't want to feel so I tried to ignore it even if you were not going to let me.
COUNSELOR: And what feeling is that?
PATIENT: Just like silliness and humiliation. It felt like so petty. I feel like a little child telling you these stories, you know, about my relationship. And every time I come in here I am always talking to you about the fights I am in. It just seems so childish to me.
COUNSELOR: Do you have a feeling of being childish with me in here?
PATIENT: I guess, yeah. I feel like a little kid - like a teenager talking to my friend about my boyfriend. It just seems so stupid. 
COUNSELOR: What is the stupid part of that? Why does it feel so stupid and silly and childish? Where did that come from? Do you know? (8:54)
PATIENT: I have no idea. Well, it feels like I don't have control of it, I guess, when I am telling you. I just feel like, I guess, I don't have control of myself and my relationship with Cole so as I am telling you all these little arguments and things that go on in our relationship day to day or week to week, it just suddenly feels like...I just feel all these issues or things that we are going through I should have control of. I shouldn't have to come here and tell you all these stories.
COUNSELOR: So is it that you feel like you are presenting yourself in a way that makes you seem out of control and...I mean, I am just not clear.
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't think I have a control issue. In general I don't think I have a need to be in control in my life. I don't think I do.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm. Yeah, although...
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Why are you laughing?
PATIENT: Because obviously you think I do but you don't want to tell me.
COUNSELOR: I was thinking that I was getting confused with the control when you were talking about the control thing. I was trying to figure what goes on between us that you feel silly talking to me about things with Cole.
PATIENT: I don't think...I kind of use you as a sounding board. Maybe I just think that there is a part of me that deals with my life in general and issues in general a lot more maturely than I feel like I am dealing with everything in this relationship. Maybe I feel like if the situation were reversed...I don't know. It just came up. It was a feeling.
COUNSELOR: Wait a minute. What were you going to say: if the situation were reversed?
PATIENT: If the situation were reversed and I was thinking I was listening to you. But I wouldn't - I wouldn't ever feel that. I wouldn't feel: "Oh, this is silly and ridiculous and immature. But as I am telling you, it hits me at certain times I would feel like smacking myself and telling myself to get a grip.
COUNSELOR: Do you think I feel like that?
PATIENT: No I don't. I don't know if it is the same age thing or what. (11:54)
COUNSELOR: A-ha. A-ha. So there is something that makes you feel...you feel silly in here? You feel silly telling me your problem.
PATIENT: Sometimes yeah. And the weird thing is I think I do try to...in my mind I have this image of you and what you are supposed to be and I think I do look at you as, like, older and wiser. You are a doctor and I am a patient, if you want to say that. So I do. It is almost like I don't connect to who you are. I still have this little...stuck in that kind of image of why I am here, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Well, you know Mae that happens to be my feeling also. But I am not quite sure, you always seem...I think you know a lot about me. I think you have picked up things about me but I don't know whether...I have often felt like you could neatly put those things aside when you are more used to someone.
PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: Someone who is older and wiser and can help you.
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Because I have often felt I am pressuring you - I am older and wiser and someone who can help you.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) That doesn't surprise me because that is what I have been looking for my whole life - someone to take care of me. I don't think I really need someone to work my problems out for me. I want to figure them out myself but I think it feels safer to think, you know...
COUNSELOR: To think that?
PATIENT: To think there is a guiding force. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I guess that is what I look for in all of my intimate relationships, with my parents or my boyfriends. You know, I guess that is what I would look for in a therapist too.
COUNSELOR: As a guiding force?
PATIENT: Yes, which I shouldn't.
COUNSELOR: Well, what is going on now? Are you feeling a little uncomfortable?
PATIENT: Umm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Me too. I think I am starting to feel a little uncomfortable. But let us try to stay with this, okay? Do you have a sense of what you are feeling right now? (15:09)
PATIENT: I started to think that you shouldn't feel uncomfortable but that is because I don't think of you as Rosemary the person. I think of you as Rosemary the therapist.
COUNSELOR: Let us stay with that feeling that I shouldn't be uncomfortable. That I should somehow know what to say or...or I use this information that we are giving each other. Is there anything else that comes out?
PATIENT: Umm-hmm. It makes me kind of mad.
COUNSELOR: Can you share that with me? Let me know what that anger is about?
PATIENT: Yes, I was just going to say this is not about you - it is about me.
COUNSELOR: What was that? That was, like: "That sounds harsh." Something like that? "It was hard to say that."
PATIENT: I cannot help but it always comes into my mind and I like it and now I am not sure whether I am supposed to be making all of these connections or not because you are saying: "Stay with what is here." But then I think maybe that is what I do to Cole too. Maybe I am like: "It is about me." And it is not only about me, right?
COUNSELOR: I mean, yeah. I do get frustrated when you jump out of the room sometimes because I feel like something is happening with us. And it is easier for me to...do what you need to do. I am feeling a lot of pressure right now to know and be helpful and I think that is what is making me uncomfortable. You are throwing out a lot of really important things - information, feelings for me - and I am feeling also like there is some demand to know...
PATIENT: Really? (17:42)
COUNSELOR: I mean I want to help you and I feel like this is important. This dynamic that happens between us but I am not quite sure I know exactly how to use it so that it is going to be helpful to you. What is going on?
PATIENT: I don't know. When you said I didn't feel like I was looking for an answer there at that point. You felt like I was (inaudible 18:29). I more felt like I was just sharing information. 
COUNSELOR: I feel that it could be. I feel something very "thicking up the air" right here.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: See I don't.
COUNSELOR: What is it like when I say: "I want to give you my experience?" 
PATIENT: Part of me wants to say: "I don't care." Again, this is about me, not you. And I that is not fair and maybe that is not true. Maybe I am starting to think this is a problem I have that I wasn't aware of before. 
COUNSELOR: Well tell me about that: "I don't care?" You do have a reaction to that. Let us try to look at that. What is that: "I don't care. Don't give me your experience. This is my time?"
PATIENT: Well, another type of therapy - when you have explained it to me - is to react (inaudible 20:05) or being able to relate to each other. In that sense, I feel like you are trying to get something by...you are trying to make me see how we relate to each other. For whatever reason, I am not quite sure. I am not. Again, I feel like that was how I ever thought of a patient/therapist relationship. 
COUNSELOR: But do you have some feelings...again I would like to go back to: "This is my time." That feeling of: "Hey this is my time. I don't care about your feelings." when I asked for a little bit more of what your feelings were, you kind of backtracked and tried to figure out the rationale. Did you notice that? (21:11)
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess. I mean, maybe it has to do with the whole: "I don't want to say anything wrong and I don't want anybody not to like me and I don't want to be, you know, a bad person." But I don't mean it in a mean way. I just...
COUNSELOR: But Mae those are a lot of reasons not to say what you are feeling right now, right? These are wrong reasons not to tell me what you are feeling?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So what happens to the feelings?
PATIENT: I guess I push them down inside me but that feels like the answer you are looking for. I don't know if it is true - I don't know. Because I don't feel they are really there. I might feel them for a second so obviously I am suppressing them but it doesn't feel like it. It feels like I am letting go but that is not a choice for me.
COUNSELOR: See now I have this feeling of you just sort of saying: "Look, I know what you are fishing for but I am not going to give it to you."
PATIENT: (Laughs.) No, but I would if I believed you. If I thought that is really what I...you know?
COUNSELOR: Is there some sense of what you are feeling right now towards me?
PATIENT: The way I felt 10 minutes ago or whatever - a little bit of anger or whatever it was that came up - that you want me to feel? I don't know - it was very little. It wasn't like a prevailing feeling. I feel like you are trying to make more of it than it was. But I also feel like it figures that I have been saying that because that is a good way of covering it up if I am really feeling it but I don't feel like I am really feeling it. Am I losing you or are you hearing what I am saying? (24:01)
COUNSELOR: No, I am just trying to figure out what the hell is going on between us right now. I am feeling so frustrated. I am feeling so frustrated. This is where I am coming from: all I want you to do is tell me how you are feeling about me, whether it is frustration because I don't seem like I know what I am doing and "it isn't it about me and why am I giving you my feelings?" Or, whatever it is. In a sense, I am asking you is that how you are feeling. And then I am feeling that you are pissed at me because I am cornering you into a certain feeling. And then I am thinking: "Well, I am not trying to do that." I then I think: "I am trying to do that."
PATIENT: (Laughs.) I am not mad - I am not mad.
COUNSELOR: Well what is going on?
PATIENT: No, I mean I regret it.
COUNSELOR: Let us talk about what is going on here? How are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: Now I feel foreign.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is an (inaudible 25:01)
PATIENT: I told you what I thought I felt when you were: "Well this is how I feel - so what?" That is how I felt. I guess it is frustrating to me because I don't see why that is supposed to matter in here.
COUNSELOR: What is supposed to matter in here? My feelings?
PATIENT: Yeah, sorry. I mean I feel like I am a shit saying that.
COUNSELOR: Why do you feel like a shit saying it?
PATIENT: Because it is a nasty thing to say, I think. Telling someone you don't care about their feelings. It is not a nice thing to say. I mean, I care - I care outside of this room.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm.
PATIENT: But I don't understand, again, how it plays in to figuring out what my problems are.
COUNSELOR: See, I am glad you just told me that you feel, like: "Sorry, I don't want to hurt your feelings." I guess now I am feeling pressure to explain the rationale of the therapy. And I am not going to do it. I am not going to do it.
PATIENT: Why?
COUNSELOR: I could think we can go on. You can keep asking me why and I just feel really stuck. I feel like anything I say is not going to make sense to you or be the right thing. 
PATIENT: Well do you know why? Or is that something I am supposed to address? 
COUNSELOR: What is behind that question? What is behind that question, "why?" (27:01)
PATIENT: What do you mean (chuckles)?
COUNSELOR: Well, you have gone a lot softer just now. 
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: "What do you need? I don't have any attention." What was behind that question, "why?"
PATIENT: Well, I still feel like, even though...now you are saying you are frustrated because I don't understand the rationale of the therapy - which I don't - you are not going to tell me so I have yet to figure it out. Is that what this is all about? When I have figured out why the interaction between us, is the important part of my therapy going to be cured? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't know either.
PATIENT: But you know what the rationale is behind...and I don't.
COUNSELOR: All that I can tell you now is that I am feeling an incredible amount of pressure.
PATIENT: It is a simple question. I don't know why you would feel pressure.
COUNSELOR: I guess because we have been in this situation before. And I feel like I have tried to explain it before and it just never seems to make sense. Then I just get more curious about what goes on between us. You know, I am trying to explain something and it is not enough - it is not good enough. And I don't know what reassurance you need.
PATIENT: Oh, well that sounded so patronizing. Really patronizing (laughs). 
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess I do feel patronizing.
PATIENT: Well that really pisses me off. I feel like everything I have been telling you, you know that is my issue - reassurance and needing. And just now, I feel like you slapped me in the face with it. I feel like you are like: "I don't (inaudible 29:29) shut up. I mean, that is what everybody else does.
COUNSELOR: Slaps you in the face?
PATIENT: Yeah. Like tells me: "You are being too needy." I don't know. And you just did it.
COUNSELOR: I don't believe I did.
PATIENT: Reassurance from you about what? Reassurance what?
COUNSELOR: I am not sure...
PATIENT: You said you don't know what reassurance I need. That the therapy is working in me? Or that...(30:03)
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't know what reassurance you are asking for.
PATIENT: I didn't think I was asking for reassurance.
COUNSELOR: I guess I thought it sounded like that.
PATIENT: I was asking for an explanation - not reassurance. 
COUNSELOR: Mae, I think I am being patronizing and I am feeling really frustrated. All I can say is I am feeling of the...a certain demand to know and to help you and it is hard for me to...I just don't feel very comfortable. I guess what I want to do right now is to try to use both of our feelings about each other to sort of figure out what happens that you don't end up feeling hurt or understood by people. I guess I am just feeling kind of stuck right now. 
PATIENT: But I didn't feel that way. I didn't feel like you didn't hear me or understand me. I was saying that I didn't understand where your feelings came into play. I wasn't saying I didn't feel hurt and understood by you. Is that fair? 
COUNSELOR: What do you mean: "Is that fair?" 
PATIENT: I mean, do you understand? Doesn't that make sense to you?
COUNSELOR: I don't think I have a clear sense of anything that is going on, no. I did hear what you said about telling me that you think my feelings shouldn't matter in here - I did hear that and I know that wasn't easy for you to say - but I think there is a lot of...
PATIENT: Because I said after that: "Why do they?" Like I put you on the spot. "Why do they matter? What does it mean in my therapy?" Then you turned that into me not being hurt or understood and that is a completely different issue. (33:01) 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well I do think it is getting complicated. It is getting very complicated in here and I am not quite sure about everything that is going on. But I do know that when you start to ask me about, "I don't get it. What is the importance of your feelings in here?" I started to fell very put-on-the-spot and very frustrated.
PATIENT: Right, but is that your problem or is that my problem? It is your problem, isn't it?
COUNSELOR: Well, I would think that if it had been the first time that I thought this way, I think it would be my problem. But it isn't - between us, it happens a lot.
PATIENT: I noticed.
COUNSELOR: So I am beginning to trust that it is not just my problem - it is at least our problem and it might be something that you also do with Cole and other people in your life.
PATIENT: (Chuckles.) That is what Cole always says to me.
COUNSELOR: What does he tell you?
PATIENT: He tells me it is my problem and it is me. 
COUNSELOR: And that is what it felt like just now when I said that?
PATIENT: No, it feels like that is what I am doing to you.
COUNSELOR: How come I am so confused? I am confused. You are doing what to me?
PATIENT: I am doing to you what Cole does to me. I am telling you it is your problem. And Cole really believes that when he says it to me and I don't believe it all. And I really believe when I say it to you and you don't believe it at all. It is so weird to me. I know you don't care. I mean you care but the parallels - you want to keep it in here. It is so weird to me - how I keep drawing all these parallels. With different dynamics - it is not all the same one, it is all...it feels like...wow!
COUNSELOR: I think that parallels are useful.
PATIENT: I do too.
COUNSELOR: And I think actually Cole is a big part of this therapy - and he is an important part of this therapy. How are you feeling about things right now?
PATIENT: With us?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You and I?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (35:52)
PATIENT: And the way I often feel with Cole, which is I am not really sure what the hell is going on.
COUNSELOR: Me too!
PATIENT: His feeling are right, his feelings are wrong. What does it really mean? Is it important?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know. And I feel that way with him a lot too when we get into these fights - these confrontational conversations.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It is like: "Wait a minute, was all that significant or not significant?" Who is right? And I just want to let it go because it couldn't have been that important to hold onto - just let it go.
COUNSELOR: It gets really complicated. What was that? Where are you?
PATIENT: And, you know, it gets really complicated with Cole too.
COUNSELOR: What is it about staying with it in here that seems like it is not comfortable for you? It is not something you want to do?
PATIENT: I Don't know.
COUNSELOR: You don't have any sense? You don't have any feelings about it?
PATIENT: I don't know. Again, I probably get frustrated or annoyed but it goes back to the same thing - I don't understand what the feelings between us and our relationship has to do with anything else in my life. To a degree I do. Maybe, obviously, I relate to you the same way I relate to other people or how I relate to other people - or whatever. So I guess it is easier for me to translate it into a situation that I understand or I think I understand.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm.
PATIENT: Because I don't see the direction it is going when it becomes about you and me.
COUNSELOR: But I get the feeling that you are baling on me. Like you are just...not throwing in the towel but: "So long. I am not going to do this."
PATIENT: I get the feeling that you are saying that to me too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I do. I think I am but I am wondering why you are baling? (39:00)
PATIENT: Why are you? That is very threatening to me.
COUNSELOR: Why am I what?
PATIENT: Your baling.
COUNSELOR: I am?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How am I baling on you? Do you know what I mean by bale?
PATIENT: Yeah, baling out.
COUNSELOR: How am I baling out on you?
PATIENT: I feel like you are ready to give it up. You keep saying that you are frustrated and, you know, that is it. And you are not sure where it is going. It is like you are ready to bale out.
COUNSELOR: So you feel like I am getting to: "No, sorry, let us just forget it?"
PATIENT: Yeah. Today I felt that way. I mean, I haven't before.
COUNSELOR: Well I think I felt like it but there have been times when I have felt like I don't know where to take it and how to make much use of it but I don't want to say: "I don't want to do this." I want to stay and work it out with you.
PATIENT: (Chuckles.) Is that what you think I needed to hear? 
COUNSELOR: No. Do you think I just said that because you think you needed to hear that?
PATIENT: No but it sounded patronizing. I don't think you meant it that way but...it is like, you know, that is what I am asking for from everybody; from my parents and from my boyfriend.
COUNSELOR: For them to stay and work it out with you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But you don't think they are going to?
PATIENT: Well, no, I am being told I am supposed to work it out myself. That is what I have been told my whole life. That is what my parents told me; that is what Cole tells me. So for you to tell me you will work it out with me sounds really patronizing - it sounds like someone is telling me I need to hear it. That is not your problem - that is my problem, I know.
COUNSELOR: "I don't care if it is your problem (laughs)."
PATIENT: I know but I am just saying.
COUNSELOR: Do you think that I just took that a little...?
PATIENT: No I am just saying.
COUNSELOR: An insult.
PATIENT: Yeah maybe
COUNSELOR: I think I feel disappointed that I didn't get it right again.
PATIENT: Aww. No, that is not true. I don't think you could say anything to me that would...I would probably, at this point, argue anything you said. That is how I feel right now - right this second.
COUNSELOR: Argumentative?
PATIENT: No, I feel like I am really sensitive in that anything anybody would say to me, I could take the wrong way. (42:00)
COUNSELOR: I am kidding.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: I was just making a joke about not saying anything but I was kidding.
PATIENT: I am also getting that feeling like, you know, all of these stones are coming up and I am not sure which end is up. I am taking it out of the room again - sorry - but it is just like...now I feel like when I write down all these feelings, I am like: "I don't want to deal with Cole because I just have to sort out what the hell I am feeling before I even, you know...I just feel like I want to be alone again to understand anything about any outside forces - to understand myself without worrying about how someone else is making me feel.
COUNSELOR: I would like to give you some feedback. I feel a little strongly - I would like to give you some feedback. Things got very complicated and I think...my sense is part of it was you did have feelings. It seems like you did have some strong feelings but that expressing them to me was really difficult because you were worried about how I was gong to take them - whether you should say something to me. And so it just made it more difficult and complicated between us. You know when you were telling me before about that clarity you had - some clarity. It seems like we both sort of lost clarity with each other. You know I just got that feeling that at times you were on the verge of revealing something to me. I just feel you didn't really want to express it to me. Does that make sense at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, I know why you would feel that way. 
COUNSELOR: It wasn't very helpful though. 
PATIENT: I mean, what do I take away from it?
COUNSELOR: No, just tell me how you felt about even? Let me have it - ill-timed. I don't buy it, whatever you do.
PATIENT: I just confuses me more. I mean, parts of what you are saying are absolutely right.
COUNSELOR: Because it is just confusing me right now. It wasn't helpful.
PATIENT: I don't know. (44:58)
COUNSELOR: Would you have any more feelings about it? Am I giving you a lecture?
PATIENT: Listen, I didn't take it as a lecture
COUNSELOR: Okay, I wasn't sure.
PATIENT: No, not at all. I like you though. I don't want to leave here now. Like, I felt good when I came in. I felt clear headed and I don't want all the things that came up to confuse me. Like, as right as I am getting on track with Cole, I don't want it to now be...well, it doesn't because I meant what I said when I really felt these issues were not about me. It is still hard for me not to feel that way but I don't want to slip back into it. I really felt this morning and after our conversation - Cole and I's conversation - that it is not about me. I feel like I could easily lose that feeling. I am insecure and sensitive so...
COUNSELOR: So what is it about what is happening now that worries you?
PATIENT: I feel confused again and vulnerable. And sensitive and I don't want to take that out in my relationship because that is what I am trying not to feel.
COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense of what it was about, sort of arguing with me; the way you talk to me that makes you feel sensitive and vulnerable?
PATIENT: It just makes me not sure of my feelings. So it feels like everything is great again. What do I feel; what do not feel? What should I feel; what shouldn't I feel? It is just broadened my own insecurities. (48:00)
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible 48:02) that sense of feeling vulnerable - sensitive right now?
PATIENT: How I keep that out of how I deal with everything - which I don't usually. 
COUNSELOR: Is there some way that you can be in this place of being vulnerable and sensitive and still deal with things? Is there some way that you can accept feeling vulnerable and sensitive? Maybe ask Cole just to be sweet to you? Because you are feeling a little sensitive right now?
PATIENT: As long as I told him "I upset you and I know and see what you are doing. I am just feeling I am going a little sensitive." Not insecure or anxious because if I said that it would seem to elevate yourself. But I mean I guess if I wasn't blaming him, he wouldn't...I mean, part of his issue is that I was always blaming him and I guess I don't understand. That: "You make me feel this way; you make me feel this way." Maybe I just feel that way. Maybe he is not making me feel that way; I just feel that way. And I think that it is okay because I am not trying to put the responsibility with someone else. I am just saying this is how I feel and I have to work it out. Is that what you wanted me to say to you to?
COUNSELOR: What did you ask?
PATIENT: Instead of saying to you that: "I don't care how you feel and that doesn't matter bal, blah, blah." Not put it on you. Not say: "This is your problem." Say: Well, I don't understand it but I will figure it out." (50:46)
COUNSELOR: That was actually not a sweet question that you just asked me. I mean, I don't know where exactly it came from. I felt repulsed by that but Mae I want you to do whatever you feel like doing. Be who you are in here and don't worry about my feelings. Let us just see what happens between us and see what we learn from it and see (inaudible 51:23). I have (Inaudible 51:30) to answer your question. And I think (inaudible 51:40) How are you feeling?
PATIENT: Fine. I feel like I am taking away something away from that. I feel like I realize, you know, I put my anxieties and insecurities on other people a lot. And I don't have to do that. And maybe accepting them as my own is the first step and being able to work through them. You don't buy that?
COUNSELOR: Are you worried about what I am thinking?
PATIENT: (Chuckles.) 
COUNSELOR: I don't know. All I am thinking is I am just trying to figure out how you are feeling right now.
PATIENT: Well, my fists are clenched really tight.
COUNSELOR: They are - why is that?
PATIENT: Probably because I feel vulnerable.
COUNSELOR: Are you just trying to sort of crawl up into yourself or is there something that makes you uncomfortable? You are on edge?
PATIENT: Yeah, I feel a little hostility and anger if you want to call it that.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to hit me?
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: I knew it - I knew it. (53:55)
PATIENT: Bam! Again, why I feel that way, I don't know why. Someone is toying with my emotions. Does that make me angry? A little bit but again it is always just a little bit on the surface.
COUNSELOR: What the anger?
PATIENT: And when I talk about it, it is gone.
COUNSELOR: Once it is said it is gone?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, I know you have that sense of your feelings are being manipulated in here and sure, I am sure they know that. It is not exactly what I mean to do. I probably do. I am trying to get some access to you and maybe I am, I don't know, sort of a bit over the edge sometimes. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it is a whole other session but once it comes up, what do I do?
COUNSELOR: With what - your anger?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: We have 13 more sessions or so. We should kind of end now.
PATIENT: Okay. (55:39)
END TRANSCRIPT
