<font size="4"><b>An Unnecessary Stigma</b></font>

AFTER five years in the W.A.A.F. during the War, I
could not settle. I tramped the roads by day and
slept in haystacks and sheds by night, as an escape from
a problem to which a more suicidal nature might have
sought the solution in a gas oven. An unlucky choice of
haystacks in the small hours of the sixth day brought a
pair of wildly yapping terriers down on me, shortly
followed by a heavily-built farmer. The dogs, better mannered
than their master, contented themselves with prowling
continuously round me at a distance of a few feet, merely
snarling occasionally, as soon as they had brought me to a
halt, but the farmer stood in my path swearing and
threatening, until I was obliged to caution him for his
language. Thereupon, he produced a rattletrap car,
driven by an inexpert yokel, in which I was rather uncertainly
conveyed to the nearest police station.


Here the situation, which up to then had appealed
chiefly to my sense of humour, became suddenly all too
serious. The police doctor, summoned by the sergeant in
charge, was in no mood to deal sympathetically with a
female vagrant who had been the cause of his being dragged
from his bed at three o'clock in the morning. After a
summary examination, I was given the alternatives of
allowing the sergeant to put me on the first train back to
London (at my own expense) or of becoming a voluntary

[p. <i>33</i>]

Why, I argued, should I be forced to return to an environment
that had become intolerable to me, when my
present way of living was causing trouble to nobody?
And why, indeed, if I was considered capable of traveling
back to London alone, should I be incarcerated in a
mental hospital? My experiences had taught me the
worthlessness of the voluntary system and I knew that,
having, once entered the portals of any mental hospital,
there was no predicting to where I might eventually be
consigned.


Indignant and confused by the night's misadventures, I
refused to comply with either of the first two suggestions,
until the doctor had asked the area social worker, who had
already been summoned to help with the problem of my
disposal, to accompany me to the house of the local J.P.,
whose signature was necessary as a witness to my certification.


Too late I realized the harm I was doing to what remained
of my shattered life and, still more, to the careers
of my relatives who would henceforward be obliged to
admit the stigma of one official certification in the family.
Despite my pleas to be allowed to rescind my previous
refusal and return to London, I was conveyed to the house
of the J.P. who, impatient at being disturbed at that
time of the morning, would not wait the intervening hours
until the psychiatrist with whom I had been having weekly
treatment at a London hospital came on duty in order to
obtain his evidence, but certified me on the spot. So, on
the declaration of a single country doctor, who had not so
much as an hour's acquaintance with me, who had not,
apparently, heard of such a thing as an Urgency or
Temporary Order, by which I could have been restrained,

[p. <i>34</i>]

The large mental hospital in which I was confined has, I
believe, a fair reputation among provincial hospitals, so
it may be taken as representative of such institutions
throughout the country. Certainly its flower gardens and
comfortably furnished day wards would give a visitor a
cheerful and friendly impression differing incredibly from
the view I got in my closed ward, which made me feel
that twentieth-century England has progressed less than
any mere observer could credit in its treatment of lunatics
from the days of "a dark house and a whip".


As it was past the hospital breakfast time when we
arrived and as I had had nothing since the previous
evening, the duly authorised officer who handed me over
suggested that I should be given a cup of tea and a rest.
I got neither, but after the routine examination and a
tepid bath in which my hair was immersed, I was turned
out into the garden on a chilly morning in a hospital
cotton frock with my wet hair dripping down my back, as
it was against regulations for a patient to take a towel
out of doors. This was my first experience of hearing
myself referred to as they, presumably meaning insane
persons in general, a fairly common practice among mental
nurses, the staff nurse scolding the gentler under-nurse in
my presence for "being too easy with them", when she
would have allowed me some slight concession.


Outside I found genuine horrors to add to my sense of
terrified unreality. The occupants of my ward shared the
garden with the inmates of a ward for hopelessly insane
cases, and I was obliged to witness the revolting habits to
which workers among such cases no doubt become inured.

[p. <i>35</i>]

The sight of naked women exhibiting themselves to any
workmen who happened to be passing the gate, having
snatched off their clothes unobserved by the bored nurses
on duty, and the slow dreary death, uncheered by visitors
or any but the most necessary attentions from the staff,
of the patient in the next bed to mine, gave my present
situation the quality of a nightmare. The sister in charge
of the ward, though ordinarily a sweet-voiced, sympathetic
woman, was possessed ofI might almost say by
a passionate temper that sometimes caused her to scold
like a shrew, using more violent language than I had
heard in all my time in the ranks of the W.A.A.F., and
which would certainly not have been credited by anyone
who only saw her in her normal state. After her first
attack on me, when she appealed to the other patients
as witnesses of what the "lying bitch" had said, and in
which they unanimously supported her though none of
them had been present upon the occasion in question, I
felt that anything could happen in an institution where
the sister in charge of a ward appeared to have no more self
control than the patients.


My recollection of the rest of my nine days in this ward
is mainly of petty bullying, chiefly expressed in unnecessary
orders, so that I hid myself as much as possible, even
from sight of the nurses who might have persuaded me
that my fears were exaggerated; and of being perpetually
cold, as I was not allowed to use my discretion, even as to
whether I should wear my coat and gloves in the hospital
garden. All letters were censored and no chaplain or
social worker visited the ward, so I had the feeling of
being cut off entirely from the world of men. Even
cleanliness was restricted, for it was difficult to keep
one's person clean with no other facilities than small
basins supplied with lukewarm water in the crowded

[p. <i>36</i>]

At the end of a week I wrote, without much hope, to
the chief superintendent, stating the circumstances of
my detention and requesting my immediate release. I
was surprised, a day or two later, to receive a visit from
that dignitary, who listened courteously to my case, asked
some pertinent questions, and had me transferred the
same day to the comparative freedom of a neurological
ward, where I was free to range the pleasant hospital
grounds and even to visit the nearest town for a properly
served meal.


Yet, even in the apparent liberty and friendliness of an
open ward, I still found a background of threats that
made me feel something between a prisoner and a
pauper. The smallest offence, from a nervous symptom to
displeasing a sister personally, was met by the suggestion
of removing the offender to a closed ward. The idea of a
return to J ward, if I did not eat my food, was brandished
at me so constantly that it became an obsession and even
such meals as I was able to swallow disagreed with me
physically, while other patients were impelled to do unnecessary
or uncongenial work by a similar fear.


No doubt, the circumstances of my entering the hospital
put me in a worse position than that of patients with
relatives to take them away, if they complained of ill-treatment.
To me it has been a shock-to find that institutions
still exist in this country where unfortunates can be
held against their will, and obliged to work and obey
hospital regulations without the power to obtain either
medical attention of their choice or an investigation into

[p. <i>37</i>]

<i>These are true councilors</i>


<i>That feelingly persuade me what I am</i>


were the lines that haunted me from my reception by the
nurses in J ward, and I still wonder how many eminent
persons finding themselves in my situation, completely
divested of any previous identity, would have risen above
their circumstances on their own merits, or have sunk as I
did into some such oubliette as the villa for incurables
into which I was moved upon the failure of an attempt to
give me insulin.


The standard of treatment, as in many mental hospitals,
appeared to suffer from lack of discipline of the available
staff rather than shortage of staff. The youngest of the
four doctors nominally responsible for the ward was
studying for an examination and "had been advised not to
overdo his work", with the result that he claimed less
than half a dozen patients. The other doctors had an
impressive number of cases under their names in the lists
on the office wall, but few of their patients had more than
occasional glimpses of them when they pushed the E.C.T.
button, and they could have had no first-hand knowledge
of whether such instructions as they gave were being
carried out by the nursing staff.


With regard to the nursing, it was common to see the
sisters wasting their time on the under-nurses' duties
while the latter idled or romped with the livelier patients,
to the detriment of those needing quiet. The junior
nurses seemed unaware that a patient reviving after

[p. <i>38</i>]

insulin may be unconscious of her actions while apparently
awake. I have more than once returned from the cold
remains of breakfast, which was all we were offered so
late in the morning and to which I was usually escorted
by other patients who found me wandering vaguely in
the corridors, to find my first glass of glucose standing
untouched upon my locker, where I must have unconsciously
placed it, after the nurse who roused me had
left it in my hand instead of waiting to see that I
drank it.


The general attitude of this hospital towards insanity
recalled the old-time madhouses. Hysteria still seemed to
be regarded as a form of self-indulgence, although I have
noticed that it is usually people reserved by nature and
brought up to hide their feelings who suffer most violently
from this complaint. I speak strongly on this subject, for
even many medical people seem unable to grasp that
self-control can only stave off the trouble and make the
outburst the more uncontrollable, when the breaking-point
is eventually reached. As a sufferer from this
symptom, I can say without exaggeration that the victim
feels like nothing so much as a caged tiger that is prodded
with sticks until it is goaded to fling itself against the bars
in a frenzy, though aware that the only result will be
bruises to itself and the derision of the bystanders. I can
never understand the common attitude of amused contempt
towards a complaint which merely represents an
attempt to escape from unendurable conditions by irrational
behaviour. Why should a malady common even to
dogs be regarded in human beings as exhibitionism?


After a few weeks of shocks and suspense in this
hospital, aggravated by seeing other hysterical patients
bullied or consigned to refractory wards, and without the
benefit of any doctor or nurse who encouraged me to

[p. <i>39</i>]

Even the deportment of the nurses seemed to lack the
dignity common in a general hospital, depriving the
patient of a sense of stability so necessary to mental cases.
There is little confidence to be found in trying to talk to
a sister who habitually flings remarks over her shoulder,
and no respect for nurses who are sometimes overfamiliar
in their manners and at other times casual to the point of
insult.


Probably anyone who has never been in a similarly
helpless position cannot realize the humiliation to anyone
able bodied yet lacking authority to do the simplest
offices for herself of having to beg repeatedly for even such
small necessities as clean linen or a light for her cigarette
from nurses who constantly brush her aside with, "I'll
give it to you in a minute, dear", and go off leaving her
unsupplied. Even the canteen staff seemed to share the
opinion that civility was wasted upon lunatics, and would
keep a patient waiting indefinitely, while they gossiped
with their friends.


My three months in the hospital had been punctuated

[p. <i>40</i>]

So far as I know, I should still be mouldering there,
had not the superintendent obtained my address from
another source and written to my family, who at once
demanded my release. His action in this matter followed,
I believe, upon an order from the Board of Control,
to whom I had appealed in vain for an investigation.
Thereupon I was immediately discharged from certificate
by the chief superintendent, without having ever
been interviewed by any sort of board, though my certification
still remains on the permanent record, as I lack the
financial means to contest it legally.


From the time of this misadventure, still incredible even
to myself, I have lost all sense of security in the protection
of the law. My mind still cannot grasp the anomaly that,
in this modern England, a harmless and helpless citizen
can be summarily certified, imprisoned in a state institution
apparently for life, unless claimed by relatives,
without the justice of an open hearing that has been the
right of every Englishman since the days of Habeas
Corpus.


In the hospital of my choice, which I then entered as a
voluntary patient, though the surroundings are less

[p. <i>41</i>]

It took me some days to accustom myself to sisters and
staff nurses who stood back for a patient at a doorway,
instead of brushing past her, and to under-nurses who
consulted my taste in the scanty choice of hospital underwear,
as anxious to please as if I were a customer in a
shop. In deference to my years I received my surname
with the usual title, and I found "Miss  dear" an
even more engaging mode of address than the Christian
names used in friendly fashion to the younger patients.
Trifles, perhaps, but a few months deprived of courtesy
brings home its value to self-respect. There was no suggestion
of punishment or disgrace about a closed ward
in this hospital. It was merely a measure for the general
convenience until the patient was sufficiently recovered
to be independent of supervision.


Most important of all, and hardest demand on the
patience and sincerity of the nurses, every patient,
however irresponsible in her behaviour, was still an
individual personality. The same nurse who may have
had to use force to restrain a patient in her more violent
moods would do her any kindness when she was calmer,

[p. <i>42</i>]

Since my discharge from this hospital, I have often
reflected that buildings do not make the spirit of a home
of healing. Much has been written and publicised about
material improvements in mental hospitals. I found far
more kindness and received far more helpful treatment in
an antiquated and outdated building than I did in more
modern and better-equipped surroundings.

