TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: One, two, three. Testing one, two, three.
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 0:00:02.6). Quite amazing.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So I'm at home. It's just sort of a complicated blend of playdates, at our house and other people's houses. Finally got here.
COUNSELOR: So how are you?
PATIENT: Good. Looking for my [refine mission] (ph) here so I've got everything. There is a... Sorry (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Okay, fine.
PATIENT: What's up?
COUNSELOR: Fine with me, thanks.
PATIENT: Things are fine with you? Good, that's great. Where did we leave it off a couple of weeks ago? I guess it was a week and a half ago wasn't it? You know, there hasn't really been anything in between then and now that really kind of stands out prominently in my mind as being something as a topic worth getting some thoughts around so...
COUNSELOR: I think to sort of I guess refresh your memory in terms of - and my memory too, I guess, is where we were on. I think the last - I think we sort of were at loggerheads in terms of I think you wanted to talk more about I think a lunch experience you had where there was somewhat of an anxious...
PATIENT: Oh, that's right.
COUNSELOR: And I was sort of trying to explore what was going on between you and me. 0:02:07.6
PATIENT: Right, yes, that's what I was thinking of. As I've been thinking about that on and off it just seems so that that was... I felt that that session was kind of - wasn't as useful to me as I had wanted it to be, because I felt that that was really something important that I wanted to preserve that discussion and that situation, because I thought it was really sort of emblematic of a lot of situations that I feel are difficult for me that really hold me back from doing the things that I really need to do to make a living. 
So that's... I feel a little angry about it almost perhaps, I don't know, a little frustrated, and so that's I guess one of the feel... That's the sort of... I mean not that I've been thinking a lot about it, but I think that's something that's - that's really the only thing to pin my thoughts on I guess for the past week and a half. 
I don't know what advice you might prove to me at the end of that session. I guess it was just to explore my something or other; I don't know what it was. But I had a feeling that the actual - last week had been so involved with - big thing was that because there was an upstorm (ph) leak, there was a leak in the roof. And so the woman above us, who is a subletter, kind of a real pushy broad and a lawyer and a scary person in general, and we didn't want her to be there but the guy who was subletting the apartment pleaded. Bob Cutz said couldn't get anybody else so she was somebody that Bob didn't want. 0:04:25.4
And she had a big leak in her - small leak in her roof, but there was no way of telling whether there was a whole lot of water above the ceiling. In her ceiling, not her roof, as the snow was melting last Monday I think or something like that. 
I was trying to - she called me and I came home on Monday or Tuesday to help her. And I was trying to help her, the best I could, move furniture and things like that, and then I went up on the roof to see what was happening. There was nothing to be seen, but, hey. What I could have anyway. 
And when I was away she had called the fire department and the fire department came because she was afraid of the roof, her ceiling was going to collapse. And they came up, about 10 or 15 police and firefighters, and they punched a hole in her roof with their hook so that the - to release the water, if there was a lot of water, so that it would be released in one place rather than the whole roof collapse or the ceiling collapse, and it was just a little bit of water above the ceiling, as a matter of fact.
But in any case, this has been the focus of my week last week and has been the focus of some... That was a situation that I found extremely trying. Trying because, as I told you, she was a person who was a big unknown quantity in the building that wasn't awfully to the point of not letting lawyers become tenants in the building. 
And she was a real tough babe. 0:06:07.9 
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: She had lived in Italy for 20 years and just back in the United States, and she introduced herself as being somebody who had defended Chicago 7 or something 20 years ago and nobody anybody would want to fool with.
So as the ceiling is potentially collapsing I'm the only person in the building who represents the co-op, because most of the other people have sublet their apartments, they're gone someplace or not in the building or whatever. So you know what I mean? I'm trying to do something that is totally outside of my expertise.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And to think I'm dealing with a person who might potentially sue us if something goes wrong, because we just don't know what she's like. Because this is the first real contact that we've had with her for anything other than - for anything, actually, since she moved in I guess two months ago, something like that.
So, uh, this was a situation where she was pushing, pushing, pushing me, you know. I was just there, helping her move the furniture. And so to ascertain what was happening she says, "Call somebody. You're the president of the co-op, call somebody, call somebody." Well, I'm not the president of the co-op and I don't have anybody to call. And so I had some people I thought I could call, and it was one of those obnoxious situations in which I said, "Well, I'll go downstairs and try to call these people." She says, "Call, call from my phone here. Don't you know my number?" But in any case, "Don't you know the numbers that you want to call?" In any case, it was a tremendous - it was one of those testing situations for me.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah. 0:07:59.9
PATIENT: And so later - and so Kathy was not home. And when the fire department people came over the co-op superintendent came over and he was sort of - was able to put things a little more into perspective, and after the hole was punched in the ceiling it was obvious there wasn't a lot of water above the ceiling, and so things seemed a bit more in control. But we didn't know what her reaction was. We didn't know whether she was going to - who knows what, you know - sue the building or whatever, sue me, you know, I don't know. I don't know what. As being an incompetent representative of the building or...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I mean I didn't even think about it at the time. I just... What the heck is going to happen here? Is there going to be a bigger deluge of water as the snow continues to melt and so forth? So...
COUNSELOR: So what?
PATIENT: So the thing that... Then I had to sort of extricate myself in that situation after an hour and a half of being up there to cook dinner for Kathy and Matt when they came home, because Kathy was picking up Matt from a play date and I came home and dinner was - let's see, did I prepare it? No. Sally didn't want it. Like I said, then I had to go out and get some Chinese food. And then we're finishing dinner and this upstairs tenant comes down and says, "Well, things are dripping even faster now." She's leaving the apartment, can I come up, go upstairs and take a look at it? And so (chuckling) okay, I go upstairs and then it was dripping a little faster and Kathy had talked to our superintendent for a while before she came upstairs and I wanted her to take a look at it also just to get her opinion, and Matt came upstairs with me to take a look at it. And then I asked Matt to go downstairs to get Kathy to take a look at it, and he did, and she just wouldn't come upstairs. She didn't want to be involved. She just didn't want to - and I felt this was a case in which I truly needed somebody else's advice.
COUNSELOR: Advice.
PATIENT: Or support or whatever from the only person here. 0:10:33.4
COUNSELOR: You feel like there's a lot of pressure on you particularly knowing what - knowing how to...
(Audio break)
PATIENT: Nobody was there.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And she was the only other person in the building. Even if she is my wife who has anything to do with the co-op everybody else was a subletter or whatever, and she says no. And I really got furious. I just came downstairs and really just said - I don't know even what I said but it was just like saying, well, what's the matter here? How come you don't want to take a look at this? This is important, it's important for the building. I don't know whether that we're going to get sued or not or whatever and so forth, and tremendous amount of anger from me, fear.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it was more than just an important building. It was important for you that she come, right?
PATIENT: It was important for everybody, it was an important thing, that there be some... Yes, it's important for me, sure.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I mean talk about the anger. I mean...
PATIENT: Well, I felt absolutely out on a limb. I felt out on a limb and I could be cut off at any moment. I could find myself - we could find ourselves without a building I thought, you know, and we were just a very - two things, you know. If the ceiling collapses or whatever, that's going to be an incredibly expensive and difficult thing and then it would probably lead into a lawsuit for me from the tenant and so forth so there's just - I felt it important to get as much... 
(Cross talk) 
PATIENT: ...as soon as possible.
COUNSELOR: You were envisioning a lot of potential catastrophe. 0:12:23.8
PATIENT: Oh, I guess, absolutely.
COUNSELOR: But it was still important that she wasn't there for you.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Something about that.
PATIENT: Yes, I was furious at the fact that she didn't want to cooperate to... And then she became angry at me as the evening went on because I got mad at her and that she had no right to be treated that way, and so I finally apologized to her for being angry at her. And she said, well, she didn't want to get involved. This was a chance for me to shine, to be on my own, for her not to impose herself on it, on the situation and so forth.
COUNSELOR: Sounds good.
PATIENT: I'm not totally buying it. Then there were some other phone calls I had to make and so forth, and when I finally got in contact with the owner of the building who is in Texas now, I was talking to him and so forth, describing the situation. I don't know if it was that night or the next night. But in any case, she more or less took the phone. In fact, she did take the phone away from me and started talking to him, sort of putting in her view of the situation and her plans and what she thought should be done and so forth, and at that point I was sort of beginning to be out of the loop. She began to take over the situation.
COUNSELOR: After all?
PATIENT: After all.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And it's typical. I mean it's really typical of the situation. I mean I'm not truly used to these dramatic and...
COUNSELOR: So what's typical and what's fair? 0:14:20.9
PATIENT: I think it's a typical situation in which I am preempted and assertive at a certain time in things that I'm doing, supposedly cooperating or doing - buying groceries, buying clothes for myself or whatever. At some point her opinion becomes more important than my opinion and her input becomes more important or her decisions become more valid than mine or whatever. 
But I think I said - but at that point sort of like things had - at that point or soon after that it became obvious that things were sort of under control with the roof, that the leaking was not getting worse, it was getting - it was lessening, and then it started snowing again and then it started freezing again, so this whole thing was just - the weather was just awful last week.
COUNSELOR: Right, I know, yes.
PATIENT: So even at this point it's not clear whether the roof can be fixed. But as the - but when I was talking to the tenant that night I was able to get the name of a roofing company that we had used before that he had remembered and so that I was able to contact him the next morning, and it was obvious when I spoke to them initially just for 30 seconds that this was a reliable place, we had used them before. The guy in charge was the type of person that gets right back to you and who is so forth so I was... It felt like things were sort of under control. It was a real professional who could handle the situation and so I made an appointment for the next day for them to come. 0:16:17.9 
And at that point Kathy went up on the roof on her own to take a look at it with me and so forth and they got back to me later in the afternoon with an estimate for the cost. And at that point Kathy more or less took over totally, because I had been - it was my opinion that we could just have a half of the roof patched with the cheapest material, because the cheapest material which had been used before had lasted for 15 years so it seemed crazy to me to go with the more expensive thing. But Kathy had decided to go with the much more expensive material and do the entire roof for five times as much money.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: As always, I could have predicted it, that she was going for the most expensive thing, you know. This was all the time you of course would go for the cheaper way and so forth, so instead of $600, $660, it's $3400. High, it seems. And she's convinced everybody else in the building that that's the thing to do, and in fact when everybody splits it up it's not that much - it's not that expensive and we're going to have a roof that's guaranteed for eight years, which is okay.
But at that point my opinions were definitely not holding any water any more. But it was an interesting progression of a situation in which I'm there for the catastrophe and then she sort of takes it over and...
COUNSELOR: Actually I'm feeling kind of timed (ph) right now because I'm thinking - I mean I'm sort of struck by sort of the similarities in the scenario you're describing, where first the tenant is sort of like putting pressure on you to do something, and here Kathy is sort of preempting your opinions and sort of cutting you off, and I'm sort of seeing the similarities to what was going on between you and me, but I'm (inaudible at 0:18:36.9) because I don't want to push that on you again. 0:18:38.3
PATIENT: No, you can... I'll continue with that if you like.
COUNSELOR: Well, do you sort of see similarities in that?
PATIENT: Well, I think it's... Certainly in the case of this situation with the roof and with Kathy this is a case of two people who are similar in character with this woman, being both women, Kathy and this lawyer; they're both very matter-of-fact sort of (inaudible at 0:19:22.8) and that sort of people so there is a similarity there, but in the situation here I don't know if there is a similarity. I mean I know I guess you were trying to create some sort of confrontation here or something, I don't know what you're trying to do, but...
COUNSELOR: Well, obviously I was certain I saw something important to work on that you didn't want to work on; you wanted to work on something else, a problem with something else, and I was like imposing this thing on you, sort of I guess in a similar way that Kathy doesn't look into you, see what you want, and just sort of imposes some things on you. Does that make sense? 0:20:06.5
PATIENT: Well, sure. I think things eventually get imposed on me some simple way and then I so just want to kind of stop opposing it and just sort of submit to whatever somebody wants to do, just sort of...
COUNSELOR: How does that make you want to feel, right now as you stand.
PATIENT: It makes me feel - I mean I see a path of failure that way. I mean if I want to do something I feel is worthwhile and I will submit to somebody else's decision then this is not a way to obtain any goals that I might have certainly, because I'm going to be feeling somebody else's way. But because my goals are so - in such - in an area, in the art area, so forth, let's say, that is such a difficult area for success that's so easy to fail in. I'm certainly - it's certainly a treacherous area to proceed in any way. 
So I guess in some sense I'm always looking for some sort of rope to hang onto or something as I proceed through this treacherous area of an art career that's been filled with so much - so many ups and downs and so many financial stress. I mean that's one thing that Kathy and I are facing now is the upcoming taxes for last year which I didn't pay because I didn't - because the year before my income was so low I didn't have any taxes and so I didn't have any estimated taxes to pay because that's based on the previous years, factors which were - income which is virtually nonexistent the year before was a bigger income last year, big enough to require big taxes to be paid, and most of the income went for paying up the previous year's debt off, or at least some of it. 0:22:20.2
So I find myself, when I make more money, in a worse position and just as bad a position as if I didn't make any money. There's no difference except I had to work much harder. When I make more money I just have to pay more money to the - pay money to the government, which puts me in actually worse shape, so that's driving Kathy crazy. It's not driving me as crazy, and that makes Kathy even crazier. Quite in fact when the taxes comes due, when we go to the accountant tomorrow, it's going to be horrible, it's really going to be horrible to me. Major, major amounts of money that are due. I'm going to be further and further in debt.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I'm, you know... And Kathy says, "Well, what is your plan?" Well, my plan is to attend these sessions with you to establish my self-esteem and to try to do some exercises to get myself stronger, so forth, and try to become more - have worked on a new portfolio to go in new directions and so forth and that's my plan. You know, I don't have any plan to bring in $10,000 next week and it's...
COUNSELOR: And that's what she wants.
PATIENT: And that's what she wants. I would like that, too.
COUNSELOR: How did we get to this part? How did we get to about taxes and the plan and...
PATIENT: Taxes, money, that's the reason I'm here. I'm always back there, because if it weren't for that I wouldn't be here. I would be working some place and making money. 0:24:03.7
COUNSELOR: I got lost because we were...
PATIENT: Oh, the talking and that?
COUNSELOR: You sort of saying that you sort of allow people to impose and you were sort of exploring how that's sort of a sign of failure and...
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And then what?
PATIENT: Oh gosh, what was the sequence, what we were talking about?
COUNSELOR: Because you were talking about how difficult it was in your profession, I mean failures.
PATIENT: Yes. High...
(Cross talk)
PATIENT: Looking for a rope, as I said, to hold onto in these difficult - this difficult situation and roped to somebody else's opinions to be a point of - a solid point to settle down to in my own world of shifting fortunes, I guess. Without a doubt, Kathy's world is much more - is much less changing than mine.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I mean most people's worlds are - this art business is just a crazy business. This is why they write operas about starving artists and (inaudible at 0:25:30.1).
COUNSELOR: I guess I'm getting confused because on one hand I hear you justifying how difficult it is for you because of the context here to you. Then I hear you over-justifying Kathy's position.
PATIENT: No, we were talking about why I... No, I was just trying to explain for some one - perhaps give it a reason for valuing other people's opinions over my opinion or looking for support, because I find myself in a treacherous - in this very difficult area. I'm looking for some sort of... 0:26:22.9
COUNSELOR: Can you draw an analogy to looking for support and allowing people to sort of impose their opinion on you?
PATIENT: Value people's opinions. Valuing other people's opinions is sort of looking for support and drama in other people's opinions, yes.
COUNSELOR: But is there a difference between valuing other people's opinions and allowing them to impose their opinions on you?
PATIENT: Well, if there's a difference in the - I guess the extreme cases, but you know it's like anything else. It's sort of a gradation between some areas that are clear on the extremes and most of the rest of the area of the gradation is sort of unclear and subjective. So sure, I think that's in any case. I think it's perhaps drawing - looking... But I think it's reading too much into the situation, too, with this tenant upstairs to say that she was imposing her ideas on me, because she would have imposed her ideas on anybody; it wouldn't have made any difference. I mean if she called the fire department it would have shocked everybody. You know, this was bizarre behavior, you know, at least, nearly crazy behavior. I am going to say I'm bought (ph) from that case, but she was scared, you know. There was a possibility of the ceiling clashing under and the fire department, I was amazed when they came that they came so quickly. They said, "Well, this could be a life threatening situation. We come in situations where there's a possibility of ceiling collapse; people can be killed." So it wasn't as crazy as it seemed to me. 0:28:10.7
COUNSELOR: Right. But what about me, in terms of the last time we met? Was there a sense that I was really imposing?
PATIENT: Yes, yes. I really had a sense that you were imposing something in a situation that was sort of, in a way - well, I felt taking away from the positive dynamics that had been already established in our relationship.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I felt that the more I began to think about it the more I felt that it was not doing any real good to go in that direction by examining something that was - it was sort of like examining something to death, I thought, that would be just examined to such a degree that it becomes - the examination sort of falsifies the experience after a while.
COUNSELOR: How does it feel to say that now?
PATIENT: Okay. I don't feel anything. I mean it just - I think I'm not stating it in any sort of emotional way, I'm just...
COUNSELOR: Well, what would that mean, stating it in an emotional way?
PATIENT: I mean I don't really feel that I'm - you asked me how I feel about that, how does it feel to say it. It feels okay. I mean I am just stating a fact I guess, so that's the way I feel. Sometimes it's like that Heisenberg thing; that when you examine a scientific reaction, that you're very active examining it. It becomes an influence upon the chemical reaction, and maybe it's not a good idea at this point to over-examine some things. I'm hoping that this is just sort of a - my goals are more exploration of how I'm reacting of my particular problems of the week or particular - or what I see as emblematic of my problems, and that's not certainly in the gate (ph) U.S. professional and what you want to do. I just kind of felt that at this point for me it's not something that's really working well for me.
COUNSELOR: Right, what's relevant.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. And in fact was - I feel is kind of just has a negative effect. 0:30:43.2
COUNSELOR: What was the negative effect?
PATIENT: It's just sort of continuing on with this examination that was taking me further away from what I felt was painful to me and the way that those things that I really wanted to - needed to consult with you about.
COUNSELOR: And not professionally?
PATIENT: Yes, um-hmm. So that was - that's my objection. What do you feel about that? I mean do you feel that it was that important that we should be... I mean you said at the very beginning that the dynamic of this patient/therapist relationship is important to progress and you know this is something that's probably important for you to proceed with maybe, but I don't know. What do you think?
COUNSELOR: Well, let me put it this way: I don't think it's so important about the contents of what we were talking about as much as what was really going on between us, where I was sort of pushing some things and you were reluctant and really wanted to pursue something else. I think that in itself was important. The most important dynamic has been certainly - it rings similar to what you were saying in terms of with Kathy today. And maybe not so much with that other person, but certainly in a nutshell (ph) feel I'm imposing something on you now and you sort of kind of reluctantly... 0:32:33.5
PATIENT: Go along with it?
COUNSELOR: ...going along, and being, like you said earlier in the session, angry. Were you aware of being angry when we were engaged in this last time?
PATIENT: No, I don't think I was angry, uh-uh. I was kind of distracted and always wanted to get back to something ettletoes (ph).
COUNSELOR: So when did you realize you were angry or that made you angry?
PATIENT: Did I say that I was angry? I don't know. I don't know if I was angry.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. I don't mean to be a liar but that is what you... You were pretty...
PATIENT: Oh I guess I just maybe in the course of the week or the past couple of days and I probably said that there as some kind of annoyance and frustration and so forth, and maybe there was - maybe I used the word "anger." Maybe at that time I felt it wasn't. I guess in some instances I did feel maybe angry that my time was being wasted, that our time was being wasted at the time that we could use to develop, I thought, some really important...
COUNSELOR: Client time.
PATIENT: ...some really important directions. Because I really felt that that lunch that I went to that I was really terrified really took me back years, like back to high school, back there, back to grade school and so forth, and I was really terrified of meeting people and other people as opposed to this sort of situation, which can be explored at some later point or whatever. But it was that end that - and it can't be delayed, let's say, as much as it's not going to make that much difference, but I think that that instance of this meeting somebody and feeling really anxious and really woozy and really scared is really...
COUNSELOR: Right. What do you feel like now? Curious, I guess particularly about me saying that you said you were angry. 0:34:26.2
PATIENT: Well, I'm surprised that I said it and I'm surprised that I didn't remember that I said it.
COUNSELOR: Did you feel uncomfortable?
PATIENT: I felt - yeah, sure. I began questioning myself. Did I say that I said, well, I was angry and I don't remember saying it? I mean that was my thought about that. I guess I - I mean that was my main reaction. Not that I was angry at you. I began questioning myself, as always. 
COUNSELOR: Well, tell me exactly what was going on in your head. I think this is really important, if you can remember.
PATIENT: I don't know. It was just a fleeting instant and I don't remember the circumstance. I just kind of remember the emotional tone when you brought it up was when I said that I was angry. If I did say that I'm saying, great, if you said it then I believe that I said it. But there was... What do you want to know? How I felt...
COUNSELOR: Yes, what was...
PATIENT: What was going on?
COUNSELOR: Yes, like slowing down the record. Or what was like your initial reaction and what was on in your head.
PATIENT: Well, yes, I had already built up another kind of reality; that I wasn't really angry, I was in the process of being more - of changing the words to being frustrated or being distracted or whatever, but anger wasn't the operational word. 
COUNSELOR: Something softer? 0:36:02.0
PATIENT: Yes, something softer than anger.
COUNSELOR: So when I said that to you, what happened? What response did you...
PATIENT: Well, I just thought, hey, I'm not angry. I'm not an angry person, I don't get angry. I'm not one of these crude people. I'm not a thug, you know.
COUNSELOR: So did you experience that as me sort of accusing you of being a thug, an angry person?
PATIENT: Yes, or not even that. I mean Kathy has often accused me, if I expressed anger, as being sort of like an artistic prima donna, soft.
COUNSELOR: This is very important.
PATIENT: I didn't want to be an artistic prima donna, I want to be a scientist.
COUNSELOR: So in a way, you did take it as an insult, like a...
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, uh-huh, yeah. Think it's also anger. Immediately congers, if only for a fleeting millisecond, the images of my parents' trying, which is the...
COUNSELOR: Negative connotation.
PATIENT: Which is the all-encompassing anger that I experienced through 25 years and something I told myself I would never do, never be angry.
COUNSELOR: Right. Huh. 
PATIENT: So the accusation of anger is a real accusation that is I guess - I'll do anything to avoid being angry, to replay those horrible - horrible relationship with my parents, except what's happening is that's being replayed now with Kathy. You know, not overtly and not in the open with Matt, but it's there, constantly. You know, there's constant talk of it. What are you going to do? Why don't you get out of here? Why should you stay here? And I say, yeah, why should I stay here, I'll get out of here. But of course you can't get out because you don't have any money. 
COUNSELOR: That's true.
PATIENT: So there you go. I can't get out because I don't want to leave Matt.
COUNSELOR: And I'm still sort of stuck on I think the importance that you experienced that comment as a criticism was an insult. 0:38:28.6
PATIENT: Wouldn't most people experience the accusation of their being angry as an insult? I mean I don't know. I mean you tell me what most people would experience. I'm interested in knowing this, because I...
COUNSELOR: I don't necessarily see anger as negative. I guess if you ask me a straight question that's my straight answer. It's not... You know, I think it's important to be able to express... I mean taking the scenario of people imposing their will and their opinion on you, I can image that being very annoying and provoking anger and maybe it's important to experience the anger to sort of stop that.
PATIENT: Stop what?
COUNSELOR: Stop the impositions.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. What do I do with the anger? How does one express anger when one is not used to expressing anger? 
COUNSELOR: I'm not clear what you mean by that.
PATIENT: I mean if indeed the case is that I'm not allowing myself to experience anger that I might be actually experiencing sort of on a deeper level, if I then, by some procedure, allow myself to begin experiencing anger, the anger is often expressed outward as well as rather than turned inward in that case. And how does one express anger to the outside world if one has no experience doing it? I mean I once read an article in the New York Times about people who have been very shy and so forth and find themselves in a position to sort of explode at a certain point and don't know how to express anger inappropriately as we were talking about when it came to these couple of incidents with some guy throwing garbage on the street or something like that. That was... 0:40:30.8
COUNSELOR: Well, there are a couple of things in what you're saying, and one thing I hear is the importance of being appropriate. And I am not talking about uncontrolled impulsive explosions of anger. What I'm talking about is if you're aware of anger, like this is an important cue to sort of saying this is not something I want to do; that you'll be able to respond appropriately, whatever that means. But you're not even feeling that; that's what I'm getting from you, that you're not even having the experience of anger. So you're sort of not aware that it's something that you don't want to do really. You're just sort of like struggling in the moment. Does that make sense to you? It's like you just more or less, when we talk about qualifying things and struggling to justify it on my side, your side, this side, try to see all the many, many, many, many sides of the picture.
PATIENT: Yes, I know. I had recorded something on the television the other day. Do you know Les Brown? He's a black motivational speaker and he was - they had some of his tapes on Channel 13 about a week ago, a couple of weeks ago, something like that, so I recorded him. He's terrific, he really is. Humorous and full of energy and really gets to the essence of self-esteem and how self-esteem is so important in achieving goals and how the thought of how telling yourself that things are possible will really make things possible and being in touch with your feelings also will give you - as you're saying, will give you the clue of sort of what direction you're going. 0:42:50.2
COUNSELOR: Yes, that's true. Emotion is very meaningful.
PATIENT: And one thing that he said was that he was quoting Bill Cosby and said that Bill Cosby says he didn't have the formula for success, but he certainly had the formula for failure, and that was trying to please everybody, and that seemed to me a very good quote. Trying to please everybody sort of negates your own opinion. You live by everybody else's opinion, and that seemed very meaningful to me, too.
So that I had... But this was fun for me to watch in the evening this week, these tapes having some influence that night. And also there was - I mean on Friday also recorded something from Sally Jessy Rafael. My week to record. I haven't recorded anything from television in three years, but the play date was over and Matt was over on my side in the studio where I usually work, so I just didn't want to bother them so I just watched television, but then I recorded it. 0:44:06.2
There was a program on this talk show, couples in which the husband is totally manipulated by the wife, and it's exactly like my - our situation. And the wife is angry and - totally angry all the time and feels justified in doing this because the husband is operating at such a low level. And these are husbands and wives, they're both sort of managerial people and so forth in their professional life, but in their private life situation, exactly like our situation is. 
Instance in which one of the husbands decided that he would go shopping because - to give his wife a break. He came home and everything that he got was wrong, not what the wife wanted, so the wife was angry at him and wouldn't let him shop anymore. But obviously when she shops then she has to do everything and she feels like "God, I have to do everything, this guy can't do anything, he's so..." And there were just more instances of that, one piled on the other. Just instances of - just the wife is just trying to help, she's trying to do it right, but the husband is incapable of doing things properly. It's only the wife who is able to do things properly. And then out of the whole sort of... 
And then Friday that later in the afternoon I didn't even have a chance to see it yet. On Donahue there was something like that, talking about the capability of women and men; that women are - now they're presenting themselves as being able to do four things, several things at a time, able to do several things at a time as Kathy constantly does and I'm only able to do one thing, and that's what they were talking about on this other program. It's just the inability of a man to function with the newly capable woman or a woman who has a race of people, sub-race of people, who have found capabilities so far beyond man that their only interaction can be to in some way leave the men behind or distance themselves from men or whatever. 0:46:37.0 
I mean Kathy's always telling me how much better she is than me, just about everything. You know, she's more capable while women have always had to do this. That's why we can do so much, and that's what they said on television. And, well, men can't make these decisions and so forth. I really feel that what I'm experiencing might be as a result of a sociological phenomena as much as a personal phenomena. So, you know, I throw that into the pot as well. I mean I can see the day - you know I'm always looking for this, but I can see the day 75 years from now, and she'll say I predicted this. Like last six months ago, last year, that I should know I'll be home. When you look at it that way, you sound like, God, because I mentioned something about this, but the inadequacies of man as a group of people. When you look at it that way, almost all of the crime and so forth of the world is created by men, the vast majority of it. It's just a matter of time until men are taxed more, taxed in terms of Internal Revenue and so forth, for the fact that they are producing more problems and need the government to do more to make things right and so forth. 0:48:08.0
I mean there's something in the air, some justification for these attacks, as well as the reality of this situation. So I kind of feel like I'm dealing with something maybe the people who watch Donahue and Sally Jessy Rafael know about, because I guess they're talking about this stuff every day and I don't know about it. And because Kathy watches - you know, she watches these programs. I've never really seen them before and I kind of feel that I'm just sort of going straight ahead, as well as the fact that my own personal problems, maybe there's something else that I don't even know about this happening. And because I did find these two couples so incredibly similar to my situation, which really, really frightening to see the similarity here. So I started... What do you think about that?
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean I - it's not just personal. I mean it's not that you're concerned over is it just you or the situation as well. No, I believe the situation as well. I don't believe it's just you. I've said it a number of times that I think it's like interaction that goes on, direction like between you and Kathy and also direction that goes on between you and myself. And I think the real task is to sort of parcel out and see where you are, you know, in regards to this relationship and what you contribute to it and what I contribute to it and what Kathy contributes to your relationship with her and learn some things from that. 0:50:07.8
PATIENT: Well, in terms of our relationship I just feel dismal about it in terms of Kathy and my relationship. Dismal, dismal, really dismal. You know, I just don't see anything there. I can really feel so turned off about the relationship. I don't see any future in it at all.
COUNSELOR: What are you feeling then?
PATIENT: Man, when I say that, I just feel - I see a dark future, if that's the case. 
COUNSELOR: Let's think of that. I remember - I don't know if it was last time but the time before that you actually talked about you saw some changes in the relationship. You know, maybe the dynamics are shifting probably, but now you sound more like you did early on, which was that you're pretty hopeless.
PATIENT: Well, maybe it's because in the confrontation last week I think that within the last couple of weeks or so there has been a sort of - it's been more pleasant, really, and I think that Kathy has been trying to be more accommodating and less controlling and I think there's been (inaudible at 0:51:36.2) just...
COUNSELOR: But that also may be the result of you changing as well, right?
PATIENT: Oh, I think maybe so. 
COUNSELOR: Maybe a little bit more assertive and...
PATIENT: Yes, yes, I think that's possible, sure.
COUNSELOR: It may be a number of things contributing. You know, she may be actually doing some tactic (ph) things as well, but certainly may be you, how could it impact. 0:52:04.0
PATIENT: Yes, I think that's possible; that I had thought that that might be the case. I think that sort of this negative feeling that I had is a result of...
COUNSELOR: Like if you think of it as a chess board, if you play a game differently she's going to play it differently as well. We're running out of time so I just wanted to get back to - I want you to think about the issue of anger, because I think it's absolutely critical. And also that moment in there where you really felt that I actually criticized or insulted you in some way, and I'm not sure you were - until we actually talked about it  - were aware that you were.
PATIENT: Oh, I kind of felt that I was.
COUNSELOR: Oh, you did.
PATIENT: Yes. For somebody to say to me, "you're angry," it's almost the worst thing that they could say to me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so that's good. I want you to sort of - I know I have given this assignment before, but to sort of pay attention to that. So it's like two things; it's the anger and also the attempt to criticize or insult in some way.
PATIENT: Okay, fine. I don't want to continue with it. I just want to express the anger to the outside world. That could be a question I guess that may be better for another time.
COUNSELOR: Yes, because the first step is the awareness. It goes with my belief that the more aware you become of it, the more you'll understand how to deal with it.
PATIENT: I think - I mean I believe that too, and I was talking, analyzing how people succeed and how one particular person has succeeded in this field, which my friend John Baselton. That seemed to me that our decision, our conclusion was that when this person felt uncomfortable with the situation that he was in he made the effort to move beyond that situation rather than to live within the discomfort. 0:54:24.7
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: And I lived within the discomfort always.
COUNSELOR: Try to...
PATIENT: Accommodate myself.
COUNSELOR: Accommodate, yes. 
PATIENT: Through the discomfort and the...
COUNSELOR: See all these different sides of the picture and think, oh, what difference does that make?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Umm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: In this way, emotions becoming aware of what you really feel can be the motivated ones to act, but if you sort of deprive yourself of that awareness then you don't know what to do.
PATIENT: It always becomes so confused because there is so much of this spinning of different opinions around in my mind. I don't even know, I truly don't, really don't know, what's most important, and so it's always the sort of the intellectual or the - not the use - intellectual in any positive sense. That's just the - sort of all of the spinning words that in my mind sort of take...
COUNSELOR: Moments like think about what's going on, but you're really feeling.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: It would be good for working in the session. I'm pretty sure you said angry. I mean it's always possible that I proposed (ph) that.
PATIENT: Should we make a bet now?
COUNSELOR: No.
(Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: But I don't know if you were angry at it. You didn't say it. Certainly you conveyed it in some way (cross talk).
PATIENT: You know, Kathy collects (ph) happened to mention me to one of her associates at work and said how - talking about how I am always - my level is one of a depressed person, let's say, or monotony in emotional tone and how sometimes I'm so angry, and that those spurts of angry her associate said are just the depressed person trying to experience the world or whatever. And then Kathy's example was when she was wanting me to sign a contract the other day for something or other, sale of somebody else's apartment in the building. She was sort of pulling my hand down to have me sign right there. It's like, you jerk, sign right there, and I just pulled my hand back and she was shocked that I pulled my hand back, shocked, and she told her associate that I pulled my hand back.
COUNSELOR: Did you feel angry?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, I felt angry that she was treating me like an idiot. I mean she's pulling my hand down with anger, but if I were to say that then she'd say, "You're reading things into what I'm saying. I'm not angry, not angry at all. I'm not angry."
COUNSELOR: You said that? Believe (ph) that's what you said?
PATIENT: I didn't say that, no, oh no. But in other situations in which I claim that she's angry, that I'm feeling angry from - maybe from her, she claims that she's not angry, that I'm reading things into her.
COUNSELOR: You both have a thing about being angry. Nobody can be angry. What's wrong with being angry?
PATIENT: Angry is bad. 0:57:33.8 
END TRANSCRIPT
