Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I still haven't followed up on any of the networking things. I applied to one job that I got (inaudible at 00:00:12), it was Wednesday and I applied to it right then. And there it's like Tara had sent it to me and it was sent on archives and she knows someone who works there. That's not person who is the one who the cover letter was supposed to be sent to. She introduced me to the person that she knew when we went to the conference a couple of Mondays ago. I only got to talk to her for like a minute, if even, so I don't know if it's going to do anything and if it is, it would be really really low paying because it's a student job. [00:01:06] But I assume they'd at least give me the higher end of the range if I were to get it but I'm thinking I probably don't have much of a shot because I'm not a student and overqualified and stuff, which seems to be the case for everything. This one was like $9.25 - $10.25 an hour. I just feel so presumptuous writing e-mails to people who a) to people who I don't know at all and b) to professors at school who have a zillion other students studying the exact same thing. It would be one thing if were writing to my div school professors or something like that because everybody at div school goes off in different directions and do different things, but presumably everybody at this school who is in my program, which would be everyone who has these professors, if they're not looking for archive jobs they're looking for library jobs. They're looking for one or the other. They're not doing something else. We couldn't really specialize because the way the program is set up I had one elective, so it's not like you can specialize in law school archives. I guess archives is a specialization, or corporate or religious or whatever - I really don't have anything that makes me different from any of these other students. And it just seems so presumptuous to write them an e-mail and I just don't want them to write me back and . . . if they don't write me back at all, that's fine. If they write me back and are annoyed at me that would be problematic. I don't really want to miss that. I don't know that they would do that but there is nothing that would make me different from anyone else who has graduated from there, so it's like this big hold-up. Like maybe I can e-mail Marge. 00:03:40
THERAPIST: And who is she?
CLIENT: Marge is the one who was my supervisor when I was volunteering at the Divinity School archives. With her that would be different because most of the people who are her student workers are like people who are Divinity School students and not archive students so I actually am different from most of the people who might ever ask her for something. She is one of my professional references and stuff.
THERAPIST: Are you convincing me or you?
CLIENT: Me. I don't know. It just seems so useless that I don't want to risk personal embarrassment and I don't want to get on people's bad side. Maybe they don't even remember me because the class size is; you know you might have 25-40 people in the class, so odds are I probably didn't stand out at all, so. 00:04:56
THERAPIST: I think you just said that you don't want to risk feeling embarrassed. That's a pretty strong, important statement, that fear of being embarrassed, the fear of angering someone.
CLIENT: Just like you know when administrative will be like, "Oh, well you should look at the art job blog and all of these things that I'm already doing and like I can't really give you any help because I have a zillion students."
THERAPIST: Like getting an e-mail like that would feel really embarrassing?
CLIENT: Yes, it would. Why can't you get your own job? You shouldn't be having any trouble. Why are you coming to me?
THERAPIST: What makes you think that's what they're going to say? 00:05:51
CLIENT: I don't know that they would be saying it that harshly, but like I think it would be what they're thinking because like . . .
THERAPIST: Based on?
CLIENT: Based on the fact that they all have 20 million other students and asking them for a favor is above and beyond when I was never anything special to them. It's really, really presumptuous. They probably would berate me; I never went to any networking event or anything like that while I was in school, and so it's my own fault — and they will probably think it's my own fault I don't have a job. And why am I wasting their time? Because apparently it is my own fault I don't have a job like because I just don't know any useful people. So I'm doomed to be unemployed forever pretty much. 00:07:11
THERAPIST: Do you believe that 100 percent?
CLIENT: Hopefully not 100 percent, but I do believe that I might be doomed to be unemployed for at least a good year or two, which is a really, really long time. It's not like I'm the only one. Apparently it's like 30 percent of people in my age group are unemployed so...
THERAPIST: So I heard you say, "Apparently it's my own fault, but 30 percent of people in my age group are also unemployed." Those don't seem — do those make sense together to you?
CLIENT: What if those 30 percent of people were all archives people who did the exact same thing that I did but maybe they're all like [ ] (inaudible at 00:08:04) sort of people who don't have masters or people who are in more difficult field and maybe I'm the only one who can't get an archives job because I didn't do whatever I was supposed to do.
THERAPIST: I don't know the data on this stuff so I don't know whether your assumptions are correct or not.
CLIENT: I don't know either. I feel like I've hit a rock.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it does sound like you feel that way.
CLIENT: Really, really frustrating, especially if I got in the past couple of days like, or I guess between Wednesday and today like I got two rejection letters.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's hard.
CLIENT: Well one was like they had gotten 70 applications and many of them from qualified people and stuff, so I never even got an interview with that one. And then the other one was the student position at the library. I was overqualified for it. And that one at least was $14.50 an hour for student position and the other is $10.25 an hour because they don't have as much money apparently. So like it just gets more and more hopeless. [00:09:52] Apparently, for every one of these positions there is someone who knows the right person to get their application [bumped.] (inaudible at 00:09:59)
THERAPIST: What makes you say that?
CLIENT: You were the one who was saying that the majority of people who get jobs are through networking and stuff so; therefore, at least the majority of these jobs are someone who networked their way in and because I didn't, I don't have a chance. But I don't know the people in those jobs or those institutions.
THERAPIST: It does seem like overall in the job market there are advantages to making your application stand out somehow, whether that be through a connection that you've had previously or a connection to a connection that will at least get your name recognized. If you're getting feedback that 70 applications are being received for one position, you have to stand out somehow. 00:11:02
CLIENT: I don't have connections to places I'm applying to or anything. No one's been offering me a job really, even outside my field -- I don't really know anyone that is looking. I don't know. Part of me is just like I should (sigh) . . . maybe I really made the wrong decision in not going for the job at Joan's company, but I would be miserable because it would have been such a hard, long commute every single day for something that I wasn't really that interested in doing. It would have been 40 hours a week doing this thing that I'm not that interested in. Then again if I had done it, maybe I would have liked it, saving up money now. Now I can't do that. 00:12:07
THERAPIST: You can't undo that decision. You have to make decisions now based on how you feel about what is happening now in your thoughts about what's happened along the way.
CLIENT: There aren't any good decisions. There are only bad decisions and worse decisions. There doesn't seem any decision that I can be like, "Okay, five more cover letters," but it's like, "Oh, apparently I have a one-in-seventy chance of getting it." [ ] (inaudible at 00:12:42) I feel like everything I've done up until this point has been completely useless and I have no marketable skills and not anything that makes it so anyone will want to hire me, even though I have two masters degrees - they were for nothing and maybe it would be justice (sniffles) if I had just gone and . . . well then I would have had to have a job right out of college and I wasn't really qualified to do anything then either. (sniffles)
THERAPIST: For the job you just heard back and they said there were 70 applicants, did they say you were not qualified and have no marketable skills?
CLIENT: No, but they didn't say I was one of the qualified ones either. 00:13:39
THERAPIST: That means you're not?
CLIENT: No, but that was a stretch because it was a reference librarian position and not an archive position. Even though it was a library that is full of unique documents that would be more like an archive than a library, per se. So it was kind of in my field but not really. I mean they didn't say I wasn't qualified, but they didn't say I was qualified either. In fact, I didn't even get an interview. Maybe only the qualified people got interviews. They didn't say they only interviewed qualified people, or that all the people who they thought were qualified got interviews, but they did not say it either. If I were qualified, what does it matter if I don't have anything that separates me from anyone else that will make anyone want to hire me? I have no advantages over anyone else applying to these jobs, especially because they all have the same professional degree that I have, you know? [00:15:06] They're all going to have to be from the library school and my Divinity School degree doesn't really do anything unless it's religious. And even then when I've applied to those positions I haven't gotten them either, even ones where I thought I really would have been qualified for it. Never got an entry; never heard back. Maybe eventually I got the form letter that someone else had been selected. I thought when I had this extra degree that would make me super qualified. When I applied for the one at this library, the only thing they were looking for was some archival experience and I had that degree. I had experience working in the archive, even with religious institutional records, and I never even got an interview from them. 00:16:04
THERAPIST: I know. That sounded really promising.
CLIENT: And I never got an interview and I don't know why. Like I didn't think I did anything wrong with my application but maybe everyone else also had experience working in religious institutions before; or maybe they wanted to hire someone Christian and they were smart enough not to put that in the thing. And I should take off the part ... the experiences that I list, now I've gotten rid of all the things with [ ] (inaudible at 00:16:41) because they're no longer relevant and I have more relative things I can put on there; but I still want to put the webmaster position in because it's relevant and useful for something. It's for music and I guess I could take out the whole Jewish accapella but if they look it up, they will see that it's Jewish accapella. Though then again, not each and every one in music is Jewish, so I don't know if this is putting me at a disadvantage or not. Other people said that I should put it in because it's like I have my Master, but no one has been particularly impressed by it as far as I know. 00:17:24
THERAPIST: I think one thing that we need to focus on is this is clearly a really frustrating and somewhat demoralizing process, and you're going to be stuck in this process until you find a job. I think what we need to look at and focus on is how we keep you feeling as healthy as possible as you go through this process. You can't take away the process and there isn't anything that you can do to change the job market or make archives positions appear.
CLIENT: There's nothing legal I can do.
THERAPIST: There is nothing in your power that you can do in that regard because I don't think that you're really going to go out and murder current (ph) archivists.
CLIENT: I wouldn't do that. I wish they would retire.
THERAPIST: You can wish they would retire. That's fine.
CLIENT: I can't make them retire.
THERAPIST: So what I think we need to do is look at how do we keep you healthy while you're going through this process that is so hard on you.
CLIENT: I don't know that I can because it's just like everything else sort of sucks, too, right now.
THERAPIST: What else sucks?
CLIENT: Sydney is still depressed and still has no libido and it's like being this huge compromise and now we're only like — because his therapist suggested instead of getting into the same argument over and over which is what we had been doing — that . . . 00:19:12
THERAPIST: What argument were you getting in over and over?
CLIENT: The fact that I wanted to do things that he didn't and then he felt guilty and I was like, "Well, I mean it's not your fault because you're depressed and disappointed, too, and couldn't not be disappointed and stuff, too. Instead just focus on cuddling."
THERAPIST: That's not satisfying for you.
CLIENT: No, no. More than that is that he hasn't really even felt like cuddling either. So it's like this huge sacrifice that I'm giving up and still it's not enough, so now we're just getting into the argument about cuddling. Right now he's super-duper stressed because he's moving and I'm super-duper stressed because I'm helping him move. Like Friday, we were going to go to his place and pack things up and he ended up freaking out the entire time. I ended up packing things up and putting all these books in boxes. He didn't do anything on Friday. 00:20:05
THERAPIST: You're mad at him?
CLIENT: A little because it would have been one thing . . . he was feeling better Saturday-Sunday and we got a little bit done yesterday and he did a little bit; but no matter what I do, even if I try to pack all the things, he is still stressed and I can't make him not stressed.
THERAPIST: You can't make him not stressed.
CLIENT: I guess Tuesday is like . . .
THERAPIST: His moving day?
CLIENT: His moving day.
THERAPIST: Like tomorrow, Tuesday?
CLIENT: Like tomorrow, Tuesday, which means we have to get everything done tonight. Which is also the other reason why I haven't been doing much in the way of finding jobs this week because I've been . . .
THERAPIST: Trying to help him.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like even Friday morning to get him to get over to his place in the first place was such . . . because we woke up and he was all feeling depressed and couldn't even get the energy to put on his pants and such so we could leave the house and get lunch and start packing. I was just like having to convince him that he could put on his pants and get lunch and start packing. So even getting him out of bed took a good 30 minutes if not longer. [00:21:30] I'm just going insane and I don't have any support right now because if I get upset then he gets upset, so I can't get upset around him. When I do it just makes things worse. My parents are asking me, "How is the packing going?" and I'm just like, "Don't ask that question." I'm about to lose my health insurance in a month and a half and I don't even know if they're going to give me anything because it turns out that there is this law that you have this card for health insurance and there's no part on there where you get to write, "Hey — this health insurance ends August 14th." It has a policy start date; it doesn't have a policy end date. So I called the hotline and talked to a woman who was like, "Yeah, you do have to put down your health insurance even if it is ending. You can still put the application through and call us back when things change," but that means when that happens that will be in August, which might make me eligible for the September 1st deadline. They said that I might be able to, like with [State Care] (inaudible at 00:22:56) there can't be any overlap with State Health. There can be, but I don't know if they will give me State Health if I'm currently on Blue Cross-Blue Shield, even if I have practically no income and would otherwise be eligible. I'm freaking out about that because there is going to be at least two weeks or longer where I'll be uninsured. They said they have this safety net thing. 00:23:24
THERAPIST: What is the safety net?
CLIENT: I don't even know if I'll be able to get it, but if you have this in-between occur, you have this thing called Safety Net where you can see doctors within this limited number of stuff you can get, either discounted or lower cost, like doctor's appointments and stuff like that, but it's not going to cover therapy anyway. It will cover prescriptions if I fill them at the pharmacy that would be at one of these hospitals that are covered. 00:24:05
THERAPIST: So you know when your insurance is going to end?
CLIENT: I know when my insurance is going to end.
THERAPIST: Are you going to need refills at that time? Plan ahead.
CLIENT: I can probably plan ahead so I can get the refills.
THERAPIST: Yeah, get the refills before your insurance expires, as much as you can. I know that doesn't account for if there are any things that crop up that you can't expect; but it will be very short window so hope there will be no emergencies or crises in that couple of weeks and if there are, then there is this Safety Net thing you're speaking of. 00:24:45
CLIENT: But then I'm like, "Should I cancel therapy for those two weeks?" because . . .
THERAPIST: Talk to your parents. Will they cover your cost in that window?
CLIENT: Maybe. I'll be the one who ends up having to pay for it in the end. They'll say, "Don't pay me back," but I end up paying by check and . . . They'd say they'd cover my medical care but with all those months and years . . . I'd have to go back and add it up, but I've spent tons of money out of pocket because up until we started the thing with recording the sessions and stuff, those co-pays came from me and not my parents. It was so much and I'll have to pay this, too. I really should have more money than I do but I don't . . . 00:25:36
THERAPIST: What do you mean you should have more money than you do?
CLIENT: Like all those things that I paid for, I shouldn't have had to pay for them. My parents should have because they said they would and then they didn't because it was always me paying the checks. They would give me more money when I need help but not when . . . and then I completely have to run out of money for them to give it to me and they said they would but like if I added it up, all the things that I . . . I can really only add up all the co-pays and stuff. I can't really quantify "this check from grandma turned into rent". I guess I can put them in there and try to calculate a figure. It might be several thousand dollars.
THERAPIST: Would it feel different to you if you made a different arrangement with them rather than them paying you? What if you arranged for them to be billed directly?
CLIENT: Could I do that?
THERAPIST: Why not? 00:26:30
CLIENT: Okay. If I can do that, that would probably make me feel better. I mean it still is not going to change the fact of lots and lots and lots of co-pays I'd have to add up and tell them they owe me that much money.
THERAPIST: But if you maybe talk with them and see if they will cover your medical expenses for that time that you may be uninsured and they agree to being billed directly by me, you would need to sign a release because on a bill would show your dates of service and also a diagnosis number. That would be helpful to you to have a bill with that on it if insurance would reimburse you for a portion of the cost, which it might. So you would sign a release with that and they agree that I can bill them directly for services. 00:27:28
CLIENT: I should have done that all along because then I wouldn't be in this situation to begin with and I would have more money. All that money that I did end up spending, most of that was the $10,000 that I was living off. It was graduation from college and graduation from Divinity School presents from my grandma. That was my money. They weren't supporting me. I mean I guess my grandma a little bit, but it was gifts so I was really supporting myself. They really weren't paying for much except for . . .
THERAPIST: That means battery space is low? We're just going to ignore that for a little bit.
It's going to record for 36 seconds. Let's see if I can erase that.
TAPE ENDS
END TRANSCRIPT
