TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. So I started working, which I think is going to be really good. Yeah, I think cafe type jobs are—I think I was remembering them correctly and thinking that they would be good for me and that it's, like, you know, five to eight hours versus, like, completely outside the rest of my life and just really can focus on the things that I have to do and just not think about anything else. So that's good.
THERAPIST: Right. Your time is structured for...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [So where are you working at] (ph)?
CLIENT: Well, I'm working at Bookbinder's right now. I'm waiting to hear back from the coffee shop. If they offer me that job within the next week I will take it because I started at Bookbinder's saying—she was like, "Let's get you on some, you know, let's get you in the schedule for some training sessions (ph)." I go, "I'm still waiting to hear back from a couple of places. I don't want to make a commitment." She's like, "That's OK, you know, we'll kind of try each other for the couple of (inaudible at 01:07)," you know. They know that I might leave, which makes me feel like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 01:10) this one or that one? [00:01:10]
CLIENT: This one. Which makes me feel like a jackass and (inaudible at 01:16). Not how, like, the things that are good in them are (inaudible at 01:17) (laughter). If they ask me to (inaudible at 01:25), I'll take it, partly because they have Blue Cross Blue Shield and they offer a PPO.
THERAPIST: How nice. That's good.
CLIENT: Sweet. Yeah, I wouldn't be eligible for the first 90 days, but, like, I'd be eligible. There's almost—it's highly unlikely that the premium that I'd be paying there is going to be more than the premium I'm paying for any [special care] (ph) and that's good. And I'm given the choice between making sandwich (inaudible at 01:52) all day and making coffee all day—I'd rather remake coffee all day. It's really more of a sandwich shop than I thought it was at first. I mean, I realize I've only ever been there to get sandwiches, but, you know, they make espresso drinks (inaudible at 02:04). But I would just be making sandwiches, which I can do. I like it. [00:02:10] I'm good at that kind of very fast paced, focus on what you're doing but also be aware peripherally of everything else that might need doing in the future. So, like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 02:24) working there, you might see me around occasionally because I [do park] (ph) behind there.
CLIENT: (Laughter) OK that's fine. OK thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. There are some spaces there that they sometimes (inaudible at 02:38).
CLIENT: OK. You're allowed to come in (inaudible at 02:42) (laughter).
THERAPIST: That's not what I was concerned about.
CLIENT: (Laughter) I know, but it probably also won't, like, throw the rest of my day into confusion. Yeah, (inaudible at 03:00). It's a nice place. They accrue (sp?) to (inaudible at 03:05) health code pretty well actually for a sandwich place. So, you know, I would still feel good about eating there, which I can't say for many of the companies (ph) that I've worked.
Yeah, I mean, you know, otherwise things have kind of gone up and down. Were (ph) really bad Saturday and Sunday we went out to somewhere like an out—I can't remember the name of the town. Way out west to, like an hour, to visit friends of James's who've, like, just moved into a home. Like, they bought a house that, like, they had built and they (inaudible at 03:53) a month and so they're like, "Come over and watch the game," and like, "We'll do traditional things." (Laughter)
So that was nice. I like them pretty well but they're just really, really different kinds of people. And then our other friends, with whom we're much more close but who are also pretty different kinds of people were also there, so it was [kind of] (ph)—it was a nice thing. And then I kind of fell apart on the way back or afterward. I was supposed to read at church and (inaudible at 04:44) minister and we didn't get there in time. Like, we got lost coming back or, like, took the wrong exit off of the interstate and, you know, (inaudible at 04:52) this exit is not labeled the way that Google Maps said it would be labeled.
And (pause) so it was just a rough day. I had just really been looking forward to that. I made it to church. James dropped me off and there was supposed to be a parking garage but it was not on the street that they said it was on and so he drove around the block (ph) for a couple times and then just, like, went home and he accidentally got home. And...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 05:31) that was Sunday?
CLIENT: That was Sunday, yeah. Yesterday was better. But still, like, you know, I was kind of fine, fine, fine, fine (inaudible at 05:46) tonight than yesterday night. And James was like, "Oh, aren't we supposed to get in touch with them at some point this weekend?" which I was supposed to e-mail them about setting up a time to meet and I had forgotten to and I just, like, burst into tears (inaudible at 06:00) (laughter). So, yeah. (Pause) Moving along. I feel pretty bad. (Pause) I get to [wear my fun shirt] (ph) (inaudible at 06:30) (laughter).
(silence)
Yeah, things are just hard. I've been hiding (ph). I don't know. You know, it was the end of the month so James and I—mostly James, but I had to be involved (laughter)—had to figure out money things for the end of the month for, you know, how are—and we were basically out of money so we were like how are we going to pay rent? How are we going to pay my health bill? [00:07:33] And (pause) you know, I think it was very—well, I know because we talked about it Sunday and we were able to talk about it in a good way, which is good. But I, you know, I've just been paralyzed. Things are so bad, I do this—I don't know whether it's, like, as I said, paralysis or learned helplessness or just—or what it is, but I can't do anything. I think about taking steps towards getting myself into a better or safer place and I just can't do anything. [00:08:34]
(silence)
So it think it's hard for James who when he's stressed out, he makes plans. And when I'm stressed out, I can't handle plans. Or not stressed out—that's probably the wrong word. Like, when I'm, you know...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 09:02)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (Pause) Saturday was not good in that regard. You know, it was just, like, very, very tense. I think he was pretty unhappy for his own reasons because he was trying to work and couldn't work and was upset with himself for not having been able to work. It's kind of this funk that he gets into. And I recognize on one hand it doesn't have anything to do with me and (ph) some ways on the other hand, feel horrible because, like, he's doing so much work to kind of keep me going and keep, like, us as a couple moving forward, in terms of like let's eat (laughter). You know, make sure we're dressed when we leave the door, go out the door. And (pause), you know, so I feel responsible for his bad moods.
(Laughter) Friday was—again, I think it hasn't occurred to him or he didn't somehow still because he needs me to tell him that when I am doing poorly, I'm never going to be the one to bring up the conversation about rent. Like, I'm not—you cannot rely on me to deal with these things in time. Because even if there's a deadline, I'm just going to sit and watch that deadline and come closer. I don't (pause), you know, just—it becomes very self-defeating.
(Pause) Jerry and Ashley's birthday was two days ago. I've been thinking about what to get them for their birthday for, like, two months. I didn't end up having time to make them what I wanted to and so I have a list of things to mail them and haven't mailed them. And I didn't call [on their birthday] (ph). I just forgot, which I feel pretty terrible about. (Pause) I feel way worse about that than the rent. (Pause) So it's good to be working.
THERAPIST: You start tonight?
CLIENT: I started yesterday. (inaudible at 12:10) nice people.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: You know, kind of bitchy. I feel like it's a self-protective thing [and group service] in some ways. Like, you have to be able to bitch at customers behind their backs otherwise you're never going to survive. Or, you know, rationalize away any poor treatment of you, which is what I do (laughter). But I think the bitchiness is probably a lot healthier (laughter). [00:13:06]
(silence)
Still pretty overwhelmed if I think about it and, like (pause), still on the, you know, just wanting to die overwhelmed. I don't know if overwhelmed is quite the right word anymore if you're talking about that, but the big factor part of it (ph).
THERAPIST: Wanting to die.
CLIENT: Sometimes I don't see a way to live. Does that make sense? Like, I don't (pause) I feel like there's not enough of me to do anything, to do what needs to be done or to live my life. I just feel like everything that I love and have is already slipping away and it's going to just collapse completely and I can't (pause), I can't handle it (ph). [00:14:38]
Again, work is good because, like, I can make somebody a sandwich. And then I can make another one, you know. I know I can do that. And it's [very sad] (ph) something that I take granted be not taken for granted by (inaudible at 15:03). Like, you know, there's a break in the lunch rush so I start stocking (inaudible at 15:11) people are like, "Whoa, new girl is stocking. It's amazing, we didn't even have to tell her." I'm like, well yes, but very small things (inaudible at 15:26) to feel like what I have to offer is what is actually wanted.
THERAPIST: That is something in which you're more than enough, rather than a lot less.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) And I can't think of anything else (inaudible at 16:01).
(silence)
My sex life has pretty much ground to a halt (laughter) in this last month. It's just hard.
THERAPIST: What happened? [00:17:01]
CLIENT: Oh, I just (pause) I just don't want to have sex. I really don't. James and I have had sex, like, three times [since he's been here] (ph). And it's really hard for him, it's really hard. And (pause) he tries to act—like, it's not just that he doesn't bring it up or say anything. It's like, he tries to act like it's not really hard or like he's not really lonely. And I (pause) (sighs), I just can't (inaudible at 17:50).
(silence)
Because it's worse if we have sex and it's bad for me. Like, that's worse than just not having sex for James, I think. (inaudible at 18:14) said that.
THERAPIST: What does that mean?
CLIENT: Like, it's painful sometimes. Like, sex being painful for me is something that we, like, just had to deal with pretty much all the way through and that, you know. First time I tried to talk to my gynecologist about it she completely blew me off, which what the fuck. It was in college, so there you go. And she was like a GP and just blew me off. Talked to a guy at the university, like, three years later after, like, getting my nerve up to say, you know, actually, I think it's wrong (laughter). And [two days later] (ph) it was just like, yeah that happens to a lot of women. Like, here are some things you can do to alleviate it.
But it's not, like, painful every time. It's just, like, sometimes it's painful and it's painful if we have sex, like, two or three days in a row and (pause) it's been more painful since I got the IUD put in, which is, like, that's a pain in the ass. And I went to figure that out. [00:19:22] But that's, I mean, like, that's a logistical thing. Really, it's just, like (pause), if I don't want to have sex with him, like, James can tell (laughter) and that's just, you know, worse and more lonely for him.
(Pause) You know, and most of the time when we do have sex it's a case of me saying, like, OK. There's a lot of will involved on my part and putting aside everything else that sucks in my life and trying to be there with him in a good way. And we get there and it happens and it's good, but, like (pause), I just haven't been able to do that.
THERAPIST: [It's not going to work] (ph), yeah.
CLIENT: And I feel so terrible (inaudible at 20:37) not enough. (Pause) You know, it's like (ph) I can't stand that James's lonely (inaudible at 20:55). James feels like I don't love him anymore (inaudible at 21:04).
THERAPIST: Why does he feel...
CLIENT: I mean, I think he's just (pause), he feels like I'm less attracted to him, which is—that is actually not something he said. That is something that I'm reading into of his facial expressions and, you know, body posture and so forth. But (pause) mostly it's, like, I don't have enough to adapt to anybody else, like, I don't.
(silence)
You know, we have good sex, like, when things are good, like, very, very good sex. But it's always work to get it to be really good. (Pause) And I've just always said, well yeah, the things that are really good are usually work to get them (inaudible at 22:38)...
THERAPIST: [You need] work to get yourself sort of emotionally up for it, in the way you're describing? Or, like, with the actual...
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty much, yeah. And (pause) it's just, like, so much more work. I just can't—you know, it's like (pause) I'm all—at the times when I'm not just (pause) really empty and sad and in the place where I need to be really joyful in order to have sex. There are not very many times where there's room for that. [00:23:26] And I don't know how to make it up.
THERAPIST: I guess the way I understand it (pause) you're mostly (pause) probably sad and empty and sometimes you're sort of back there but you're at arm's length from it and sometimes it's right there. And it's pretty occasionally that you're kind of genuinely feeling joyful.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I only notice that that's there and I'm at arm's length from it because I don't want to have sex. If that makes sense. Like, I'm pretty far removed from it.
THERAPIST: From feeling that bad (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I mean, James can't tell. If I can't tell, how is James going to tell? And so (pause), you know, I try to tell him but I worry about telling him that's [how I am] (ph) I am because (pause) he worries about me so much and (pause) I don't want to tell him, "Yeah, I pretty much just want to die a lot of the time," because then he feels like he has to ramp up the vigilance even more and, you know, not only is that incredibility irritating (laughter)...
THERAPIST: For him.
CLIENT: For me.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:11)
CLIENT: He's like, "Are you OK now? Are you OK now? Are you OK now?" (Laughter) You know, and then at one point I, on, like, Sunday or Saturday—Saturday we were both in the apartment and we were, by common consent, we were just like, "Let's just work separately today. Like, we need some space." And that was good, but it was clear that both of us were still, like, checking up on the other person out of the corner of our eye every 30 seconds or, like, every two minutes. You know, and so I actually did that. "Are you OK now? Are you OK now? Are you OK now?" Like, to be like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:54)
CLIENT: ...James, back off a little bit (laughter). And he got that, it was fine. But (pause) it's hard. So, you know (pause), I mean, I guess it would be better for him to hear, "I don't want to have sex with you because I pretty much just want to die most of the time and it's harder to have sex when you feel like that," rather than, "I don't want to have sex with you because I love you less or I'm less attracted to you." I should talk to him (inaudible at 26:48). And you know, it's one of those things that we both kind of explicitly said, "Yeah, this needs to change. We need to figure out how to do this better," but I still haven't gotten there.
(silence)
So I admit to saying how things outside my control entirely get incorporated into this, like, very settled steady (pause) hating myself.
THERAPIST: [You said] hating yourself? [00:27:48]
CLIENT: Yeah, like, it was totally not my fault that we were late for church. Like, that was—I mean, if it was anybody's fault it was James's fault, but it was not really James's fault. We meant to leave an hour in which to get lost and we only left half an hour because we left a little late because we always leave a little late. But I'm from Texas—you always leave late. It takes forever to say goodbye. Maybe that's just my family, but anyway. And (pause), you know, taking the wrong exit, James was driving and so he decided not to take the exit that we should've taken because it wasn't labeled the way it was supposed to be.
But that's not really his fault. Like, this is nobody's fault. And it was not a big deal. Nobody was upset with me about it, about just not showing up. (Pause) It was just something I had really, really been looking forward to and really wanted and (pause) this is, like, "Well, there it is." I'm just not the kind of person who gets what she wants. I just don't deserve good things.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 29:13) really disappointment first. And then it became self-hatred.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah (sobbing). Being ashamed that I hadn't lived up to what, you know, fulfilling what I told people I'd be able to do and disappointment that I wasn't able to do this thing I really wanted to do. But (pause), you know, disappointment, it just turns so (ph) you get flipped over so easily into...
THERAPIST: You feel undeserving (inaudible at 30:00)
CLIENT: Oh yes.
THERAPIST: It also sounds as though those sort of moments (pause) put you quickly in touch with how awful you're feeling...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...which (pause) is otherwise often there, but I guess at arm's length where you're not aware of it.
CLIENT: Yeah. [We've gone from zero] to horrible really fast.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Do you (pause) feel up to doing therapy? [00:31:39] I mean, talking about things that—already things you sort of don't feel up for anymore besides [I guess] (ph). (Pause)—I guess I have the impression that you're also (pause) kind of telling me that there are ways you don't feel up to this.
CLIENT: Some days I don't. You know, Friday I didn't. (Pause) Most of the time I do. Maybe it's only because (pause) I feel like this is where I'm putting my hopes. Like, well if there's a way out, this could be it. [00:32:39] I worry that (pause), that therapy will be, like (pause), you know, like working in a coffee shop of a kind of mental gain that protects me from how I'm feeling, rather than helping me actually deal with it. Yeah. But, you know, there's a reason I do puzzles when I'm stressed out or upset, like, pressure (ph) and I don't—that seems like it would be counterproductive. Or it could be. [00:33:37]
THERAPIST: Does it feel like (pause) you or you and I are getting sort of (pause) distracted, kind of into doing puzzles rather than (pause) paying attention to how you're actually feeling?
CLIENT: Some days, but not often. You know, on Sunday James and I talked about money and we got it done, but it was really hard. And Monday—or no, Saturday, we talked about money, Sunday driving to our friend's house, which is like an hour drive. I kind of said, "Well, you know, (inaudible at 34:36) talking about my childhood and I don't want to have to talk about that." (Laughter) It was (inaudible at 34:44) trying to kind of keep him into the loop a little bit or catch him a little bit. And (pause) (inaudible at 34:52) James was like, "I'm not sure why you're telling me all these things." I got, like, I told him much more about, like, you and my relationship with you and what's going on that I ordinarily do.
I said, "Well, I'm not sure if this is why I started the conversation but one thing that I wanted to say was that I think that one of the reasons I have a really hard time talking about money is because I have a hard time—because I avoid things when I'm scared of them." And that's something that I think, on my end, that's going to involved talking with Ethan a lot (inaudible at 35:39). That's something—I don't know if I've told you this actually, but that kind of paralysis is very much what I did as a kid. And I don't do it as much and I kind of grew out of it some or got to the point where I just work past it and I'm not able to work past it as much. [00:36:05]
THERAPIST: What did it look like as a kid?
CLIENT: I just never did any homework. I just wouldn't do the things that I was afraid of or wouldn't meet any of the deadlines because (pause), you know, I was going to get punished regardless or, like, something bad was going to happen no matter what I did and I just—like, I didn't realize that if I did homework, people wouldn't yell at me until I was, like, in high school. I didn't, like, consciously realize it (laughter), which is one of those things that are, you know, a summary that is so much a summary as to not actually be true. But (pause) I don't know. This makes me feel better and I feel like it does actually [bare off] (ph) on what's going on in my life, if in an indirect and long term way. [00:37:14] Does that make sense? It doesn't always make me feel better (laughter).
THERAPIST: That's certainly not the first time it doesn't make you feel better, yeah.
CLIENT: So yeah, (inaudible at 37:43).
THERAPIST: Do you (pause)—I guess I'm smiling for a few reasons. First (pause), and this is fine. I'm not saying it's a problem but you changed the question.
CLIENT: How?
THERAPIST: I think without realizing it, which is just sort of striking. I mean, I had asked about you feeling up to it, kind of in parallel with sex and work, which you were describing often not feeling up to. It's different from do you want to do it. Again, I don't need a problem for you to feel the question or ask the question, but it strikes me that it may be a different question.
CLIENT: Yeah that's interesting. [00:38:45] I never known what I'm up to until I do it. I always feel like I'm not up to it. Not always, but still not.
THERAPIST: What do you imagine about me wanting to do it (ph)?
CLIENT: I guess a more specific way to ask what I want to ask you is do you think that I'm up to it? Which you don't have to answer. And part of me just wanted to kind of hear what you were thinking about that. [00:39:49]
THERAPIST: About sort of in general, about your being up to this?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I see. Did you hear—sounds like you heard my question a little bit (pause) as a kind of a direct question about whether you are up to this.
CLIENT: Yes, which is not how you phrased it.
THERAPIST: No, although it does fit with your not feeing up for work and sex, so...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 40:32) I find that the days that I—as I find and I suspect that you find that the days that I feel least able to—that I feel least up for it are sometimes most interesting or illuminating.
(silence)
THERAPIST: I think a lot of what you're struggling with here these days is (pause), like, a sort of terror of being more in touch with how awful you're feeling and it's making your life even worse, which I think you kind of worried about one way and probably more consciously before James moved here and worry about (inaudible at 42:01) a different way and probably mostly less consciously since he's arrived.
CLIENT: That makes sense to me.
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now. (inaudible at 42:16)
END TRANSCRIPT
