Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know that.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: So where are you tonight?
PATIENT: Well I think one of the things I wanted to ask you about was what we talked about last week the matter of guilt when I touched on that briefly. I'm a little bit confused because it seems to me that a person has desires to kind of change their ways as it were that one of the motives of them wanting to do that is them some feeling of guilt or something approximating guilt about the way they're presently acting. And yet you said that you thought that I should feel that way, people in general too, but in this particular case me should not feel guilty for example about vanity because I've done that. So you think that they should feel that way but it seems to me that one of the motivating forces for me (inaudible at 0:01:26.9) is a certain sense of guilt. Or not exactly guilt but maybe something like... Well I suppose it is guilt the guilt of throwing away a good part of my life. I feel guilty about that even in a moral sense as well as a practical one. So what do you mean by that? How do you work around... [0:01:50.0]
COUNSELOR: As I remember I didn't use the word guilt. You were the one that was using the word guilt right. And I agree with you that people in order to change have to be dissatisfied with what you got; unhappy with that. That's the first essence of moving. But beyond that I think it's unhealthy to get hung up in a thing of I'm no good, I'm rotten, obsessing about that. And it makes it very difficult to work with you if you're that unaccepting and the uncomfortable. Just like marriage would be very hard to work on if you can't (inaudible at 0:02:38.8). And that's kind of the same thing I'm saying. If you're that upset with yourself, it's really hard to work on changing it if you can't have some basic degree of liking yourself. [0:02:53.6]
PATIENT: Right. I see. Okay. Well some basic degree, yeah, that's a little bit different. I suppose there is some basic degree of liking myself because of my vanity for one thing that I find so funny. So maybe I understand that a little bit better. The reason why I picked up on it some time when you read, and not from what you said, but sometimes in your just general background you do get the feeling that the idea of any moral responsibilities in some ways... You know it's like Hemingway's old thing what's good is what you feel good after, what's moral is what you feel good after or doing or somewhat. [0:03:38.5]
COUNSELOR: And that kind of jars against you?
PATIENT: Yeah. That seems to. If it's going to be that kind of ballgame, that screws up my little rules of the road pretty thoroughly because I don't know. And now it does affect where to turn. I'm saying whether or not that's objectively sure or not it may be the only that's morally really what you're... I don't know but it would screw me up personally. [0:04:04.8]
COUNSELOR: It would confuse as to what the value good and what to value bad.
PATIENT: Sure. If everything is in fact totally relative to yourself and (inaudible at 0:04:11.5). And I think that that's a valid point people can make about some of these things although it may be more fringy type stuff than really mainstream people are practicing kind of therapy. But I guess all I'm really saying is that this is really, I think, part of my functional makeup and part of my conscious makeup too. That's just sort of by the by. I wanted to tell you a story about what happened to me last week. And it's kind of interesting because I think that it illuminates in some ways my own emotional hang-ups, and I did think about it afterwards. [0:05:05.3]
Last week one time I saw my sister, the one that's my favorite sister, and she was downtown at one of her usual romantic escapades. Not romantic in the sense that she's trying to form liaison, but she's got five children, and they're little, and she's tired of them, and so she wants to be a model. She's a pretty girl. So she's going out and having her photographs taken by some girl that lives in Old Town that's got kind of a hip scene down there, and is Italian, and speaks English in a really charming accent. So we had a couple of drinks before dinner, and then we had dinner, and her husband Benjamin, who is intensely, I think, jealous of her... I've never really understood it so thoroughly until that night although I've always known it. Finally came down, she didn't want him to come down but he called up and said, "Well where are you?" and she made it abundantly clear she told me that she didn't want him to come. And in fact he did come and he proceeded to throw cold water on everything. Shelley is the type of girl that is very spontaneous and will say a lot of foolish silly things but very earnest. And that's really one of her greatest traits. And you can sit there and talk with her for hours and agonize and it's just great fun over a beer at some hotdog stand or something. And so we had dinner and Benjamin's a very negative type of guy, and very kind of stick in the mud, and well I don't know about that, that won't work, especially when Shelley gets very spontaneous and says I think this about that. He get oh no. (inaudible at 0:06:40.4).
COUNSELOR: And that counteracts her. [0:06:41.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, it's a little game they play. So what the point of the story though is that after we had dinner at a reasonable about 10:30... They both drove down in separate cars. And Shelley was just (inaudible at 0:06:57.7) from the drink. So Benjamin drove home and we're in front of my apartment building and then he finally drove home. And I said, "Okay, goodbye, I'll see you later Shelley" and so she drives off. I came up to the apartment and five minutes later she came upstairs. So we broke out a bottle of wine and began to talk and she complained about her husband, and about her life, and about her marriage. And that's one of the reasons why she likes to visit with me because I'm a good listener and sensitive to her kind of problems especially because for some reason I empathize with her. [0:07:31.6]
So she told me about her problems and it really struck me like such a classical case, and this is where I get the idea of the variation of patterns especially in my own family, it was her marriage with Benjamin versus my mother's marriage to my father are in some ways very similar because Shelley as a younger girl... She got married just out of college having taught school for a year in typical suburban fashion. So she pretty much went right into her marriage with Benjamin very idealistic and very pious girl when she first got married. She's very idealistic. And she was complaining about the loss of ideas and so on and so on. She said she didn't understand why Benjamin, for example, that night came downtown and she didn't want him to come downtown. She gave me in numeral ways she told me that she was outgrowing Benjamin. Benjamin's a very, very smart guy and rather wealthy in his own right through his parents. Of course, he's a doctor (inaudible at 0:08:46.2). He's a very smart guy. I like him. He's a very funny guy, but I can see where the chemistry between them doesn't really click. But it did before because Shelley needed him because Shelley felt that she was very flighty, and scatterbrained, and she probably was. And all her school teachers there recall stories. My mother said stories about her in college and so on and held that opinion over her, a charming girl that's scatterbrained and probably not real bright. So she felt insecure on this level and here's Benjamin the very pillar of sobriety, strength, and the right way to do things that she married him. This is my own reading of what she said. I said, "What do you find most pleasing about Benjamin?" and she said, "I don't know there was something about him and I just had to have that man." [0:09:40.7]
Well the reason I'm quite sure that she felt that way was because of the temperamental oppositeness and feeling that she got from being married to this guy. And now the situation has changed. She's had, and I see many, many women that are like this, not only in my own family, and this comes up in a moment, but now she feels like she's outgrown him, and that he's a bit of a dull bulb, and doesn't really understand her, and holds her down. So she's complaining rather bitterly. She tells these stories about she would like to go out to California, all this little domestic travel. And so I virtually told her that I thought she was on the verge of having some kind of extramarital liaison because she is, and it really kind of breaks your heart, and is sort of cute almost in a way because sometimes when I'd meet her before we'd go to the Green House or go to the Ryan Bar and she'd always just look great, and she'd stand around and was obviously eyeing me. At some point in time I felt that was a little annoying like I was being used as a cover. It sticks in the craw a little bit. I mean it's so classically obvious. And I really resented her telling me this, and I was very crude, and I normally I'm not. I was crude emotionally with her not in my language. I told her this story. She kept saying, "What do you think of this?" [0:11:17.6]
So I finally told her a story of a friend of mine who was a very hotshot guy in college and his wife that he married right out of college like that who was a very pretty girl and a little bit dependent on in. And she was bit of an absolute social butterfly which my sister wasn't. The parallels aren't perfect, but they did strike me then as important. So the girl all of the sudden has a couple of children and the guy does well. They're making a very nice amount of money, and he's still hale fellow well men, almost obnoxiously so. But she begins to bloom, and she looks beautiful, just gorgeous now. She's a very sophisticated, there's something about her that's formidable when you talk to her. I told mean to me or anyone else frightening. It isn't really that frightening. But she's got a certain dramatic presence. So she looks great and she's just blooming out. Well what happened to her was that when she was up in one of these suburban towns she had an affair with a guy that used to repair their house. They moved into a new house and there was some guy that was no doubt in the back yard with his shirt off and raking leaves with Maggie or something. She had an affair and her husband caught her on the run and tried to shoot them both and shot at the house. I got this story from her attorney who's a good friend of mine. [0:12:47.4]
And I pointed this out to Shelley as an incidence of a gross injustice of the poor guy being away at work all the time. He's no longer able to go to all the marvelous parties and do all the marvelous things they did in college, fly to Bermuda and have a fun group they were always with and all that. And she's stuck at home with the children and becomes resentful of him but at the same time she's especially resentful because she's blaspheming us. She can see it in herself. Most people can see it in the reaction that others have to towards her. So I kind of used this as an analogy with Shelley. It doesn't sound maybe so strong right now but that was really a very emotional reaction to the story. I really bitterly resented the fact emotionally, not only do I think it would technically horrible for Shelley to try and blown off Benjamin for fiscal reasons as well as her own emotional reasons and the five children. I have another sister who is divorced with four children so it's a bad scene from a very practical level. So I was trying to discourage it and I was also indicating to her really my feeling of disgust. I guess not disgust but my dislike of women that are like that. They grow beyond the man of the house because they're partly sheltered in a certain way. He might get a little tamped down, and then they bloom forth, and they're these gorgeous creatures, and go on and do all these wonderful marvelous things and have a terrific time. [0:14:32.5]
Well really the other thing I hurt her badly, and she virtually clammed up after I said that because she was looking to me for saying yes but kind of answer but mainly yes. That I'm throwing right at her. And it occurred to me that really the particular case is so complicated that it would've been objectively easy for me to do, not easy, but appropriate that I give her a yes but answer. But I didn't because of my emotional reaction, so I threw right in her face a story about this awful adultery intimating to her, because she's a sensitive girl, and I had said to her earlier that I thought she was on the verge of having an affair. She sort of agreed to it. I threw this at her, and I thought about it later, and I thought about it in connection with our exceptions, and I thought that it seemed to be a pretty good instance of, number one, of my reaction towards females for example, the lack of willingness to sympathize with them really very much in a matter of that kind which should make it female chauvinism or whatever you want to say is fashionable now. I think it goes beyond that too. And the other thing I think now it's sort of appropriate as a kind of customary miss queue that results in certain alienation of myself from other people generally. [0:16:09.9]
COUNSELOR: What is the crux in this?
PATIENT: Well saying something like that without even realizing what I'm saying, the force of what I'm saying. The person that hears it may not realize it all at the same time too, but I think those things go in. You know sometimes you can get depressed.
COUNSELOR: Sure sounds like it would.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think it did. She cried about it and then we began to talk about me and that wasn't especially interesting to either of us at that point after what had gone on before. But the customary miss queue that would be the kind of thing that I would do to conversations with people just kind of throw it in their face. And I'm continually doing that in large and small ways. And I know it depressed her because I could see it I mean visually when she sort of sat down in the chair and talked about me and kept up the conversation. It was really a gross and insulting kind of remark to make. [0:17:09.7]
COUNSELOR: And so you felt badly afterwards?
PATIENT: Yeah, afterwards I felt badly because I realized with more vividness than I might in other circumstances what I'd really done just throwing it right back at her and told her about this adulteress friend of mine who really is a lovely girl. She doesn't compare to my sister, and I know her reasonably well in any of her attributes. So that sort of struck me as a kind of key of the kind of things that I'm into as they say, I'm doing without probably in many cases realizing with any degree of vividness or candor. That's the kind of thing that disturbs me. But the reason why that is, and I do have to say a little bit about my background, because I do so, and even consciously I realize it, I do so bitterly resent mommy. And it really is a considerable energy waster this way I feel about her. It's amazing. [0:18:30.9]
I didn't point out the analogy between Shelley and mother very thorough. She has something of the same qualities in her that, not qualities in her, but something of the same external things that bothered her that Shelley did. As she tells it was grossly put down by her older brothers and sisters and Shelley never was but had a sense of inferiority about her; a very profound sense of inferiority. And this is where I spoke of her being as being vulnerable and she is and this is where it comes from. And they did put her down and they mistreated her in many, many ways. The way that I know most clearly about her was the way the money was divided up. I can relate to that. And it was clear that they felt a good deal of contempt for her, her older brother and her older sister. But she's a very dynamic woman and she married my dad, and I think, it's speculation on my part because of course I wasn't there to see it in the decade of the 30's when they were first married, but I think something similar probably went on. My dad is a very tall good looking man a rather pretty possessing kind of guy when you first look up on him. And so she sort of grew in the shelter of this great looking guy who was a lawyer and he had a certain, I think, (inaudible at 0:19:57.7) about him from looking at pictures. He was kind of racy. They did fairly racy things. In fact I think when they were married it was after they were both at some wild party or something. It sounds goofily romantic, but I think that's what happened because they ran off (inaudible at 0:20:17.6), and I think my older sister was born suspiciously soon too although I never checked into that. So the same thing happened to her and then she became... [0:20:32.0]
COUNSELOR: How is that the same?
PATIENT: Well the fact that the dissatisfaction with a man whom she new desperately at the time of their marriage. As I say this is a little bit of speculation. But I think it could be factually checked out. A man that she needed very desperately because she was in a very inferior role in her own family and felt very inferior. And this man then sheltered her to a certain extent from the cruelness of her own family. And her mother was incredibly cruel. I do remember her. She was a total bitch and I can quite image her with great plausibility seeing her ridiculing her whole family but especially my mother. [0:21:23.0]
COUNSELOR: Could you tell me right now how this is important to you?
PATIENT: It's important to me because I think I'm obsessed with it.
COUNSELOR: I think you are too.
PATIENT: Well that's a valid reason for speaking of it I think. What I'm trying to do is explain to you, I think this is really part of the difficulty with me. I'm trying to explain it to you and you become sensitive of how I feel about it. But it's difficult for you to know if this makes any sense at all because you're not in my family. But I don't suppose you have to.
COUNSELOR: No it makes sense to me in terms of what I know about you already. [0:22:02.5]
PATIENT: You mean I didn't have to tell you any of this.
COUNSELOR: No you didn't have to tell me any of that.
PATIENT: Well if I don't get to tell all the good stories this isn't going to be much fun.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's what I figured is why you were telling it to me. In fact I almost said when you started off I'd let you tell it on one condition and that is that it was not told as a story but material to work on and that I could break in at any time.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:22:26.3).
COUNSELOR: Well I let it happen now. It's pretty much over with.
PATIENT: I'm prepared to go ahead you know if you want to break in again.
COUNSELOR: Yes I know but I don't...
PATIENT: No, I do think it's important. Excuse me. You can't frankly already know...
COUNSELOR: You said almost absolutely nothing about yourself in that whole thing.
PATIENT: I think I said a great deal about myself.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I revealed to you an obsession.
COUNSELOR: I learned about you about how you talk about other people and in terms of them, and they, and you, and all people, and not in terms of... [0:23:14.1]
PATIENT: I told you about one of my...
COUNSELOR: Sisters.
PATIENT: My sisters and or at least the genesis of a particular obsession I have because I've seen it happen.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well I believe...
PATIENT: I thought it was important that you...
COUNSELOR: I believe that you did it with your sister, but I'd rather try something different with your sister thing. Are you willing to work on it?
PATIENT: Well I'm willing to (inaudible at 0:23:45.4).
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm your sister and I just got through telling you that story and saying what should I do. Let's say this is a total new chance. You've had one go at this already last week. You've already had that question. We'll just say that that was just a rehearsal and wipe that out. We'll say you dreamt that or something and it's happening right now. What should I do? [0:24:10.8]
PATIENT: Well you really want me to respond or do you want me to tell you about the basis of my response?
COUNSELOR: No, I want you to respond. I want you to...
PATIENT: You want to play the role game?
COUNSELOR: From what you learned and what you felt about... Okay, now is a new space and time and having seen her reaction, and you told me that you were uncomfortable with it, and that was the way that you put her down, I'd like to see what you do the way you feel about that whole situation right now. So talk to me as being your sister. What should I do?
PATIENT: Well I think I said some of these things to her at the time.
COUNSELOR: You can't even say that. That's ourish. [0:25:06.7]
PATIENT: I think that you should not try to understand yourself only so much, but I think you should try to understand Benjamin's motivations. If it is evident that he's jealous of you, and it seems to be that way, I don't think you should merely and just reject him for his jealousy. I think there should be something more than that. I think that you ought to understand there's a reason why he's jealous, probably a very good reason, because I already told you that I think you're on the verge of having an affair, and he no doubt senses this and feels very hurt. And I in fact thought it was very charming of him to come downtown to have dinner with you and I. Although I realized later that he did throw cold water on it and so maybe I was wrong again. Maybe he did is some ways come downtown just to be a spoiled sport. But if he's doing things like that I mean he's really involved in a completely non-rational kind of a response to you, and it does indicate that he's affected very strongly probably worried. [0:26:26.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay. What do you feel about that?
PATIENT: I feel about what I said to her is true, but ultimately she's inconsolable because Shelley's right. She should do these things. But she's talking about her own naked emotional response too which is apparently right now (inaudible at 0:26:45.7).
COUNSELOR: And you're telling her what she should do?
PATIENT: I was telling her what she should do. What as a good Christian substantive person she would do. And that's sort of the (inaudible at 0:26:56.5) and it doesn't really answer but she ...
COUNSELOR: Okay. How about if you try again and say some of those things to her? [0:27:07.8]
PATIENT: Say some of what things?
COUNSELOR: Some of the best things that you're saying about your sister are the things that you're saying to me as therapist and not the ones that you're saying to your sister either last week or me role playing your sister right now.
PATIENT: I did say some of those things but they were ruined by the ridiculous...
COUNSELOR: By the ridiculous put down.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I did say some of those things. I agree that he's jealous. I think he is. There's a tanager there that makes me uncomfortable too of course that he would be jealous of me which is rather odd, but I don't think that's entirely true because he does have it all. Even the parties they have. [0:28:04.9]
COUNSELOR: He does what?
PATIENT: He throws a little water on the proceedings or tells Shelley she's being stupid or silly. And she's gotten to the point now that she's so strong and certain of herself that she thinks it funny. If you don't like it, buzz off. She wants to live her own life. So what can he say to her? She's in a classic position of a bright pretty woman that has five children and has been married 13, 15 years. What can I say? Choose your lover wisely, make a good choice. She wouldn't accept that either I don't think, and I feel debaucherous saying that to her, her younger brother telling her... But that's where she's really at. That's the only thing now that would give her any real pleasure. At the same time it would probably ruin her because she's worse than I am about all that and she'd go into fits. But she's so intense and romantic it might happen. That's how I responded to her. See one of the things that troubles me though is I think the whole thing is confused in my mind in my emotions or something that I can really relate so well to her in isolated instances. [0:29:39.1]
COUNSELOR: You weren't relating well to her in that instance.
PATIENT: No I didn't. No I didn't but you see I can talk to her like I can talk to no one else I mean simpatico wise. I don't say anything. She and I are on the same wavelength I think in some respects. She's a good listener too and a very sensitive person and is willing to understand. I think everybody understands something but they really understand but they'd rather they didn't. [0:30:11.4]
COUNSELOR: Let's say you had a chance to... Your sister came down tonight, would you want to unsay any of the things you said last week? What would you want to do over?
PATIENT: Well I think the first thing I would have to do is apologize for the gross analogy and try and indicate the way I really feel. I'd probably say something to her in the order of what I said to you.
COUNSELOR: What she should do.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Which is a toned down version of the same thing right?
PATIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: Which is a toned down version of the same message. The other is weighing very heavily all the judgment and you deserve to be shot in such a thing and this one is do what you should do. I mean they're the same message only this one isn't bong quit as loud or gross but it's the same message. [0:31:30.5]
PATIENT: Well I can't think of any responsible advice I could give her in any other way. I mean I couldn't say, as I said, choose your partner wisely or something. Maybe I could say that to her but I'd feel it was a very irresponsible kind of thing to say.
COUNSELOR: How is that irresponsible?
PATIENT: Well I don't want to enter into a conspiracy with her where she and I know or something what's really going on. I think I have to maintain a certain distance. And I cannot conceive of a scenario where a woman like that is going to find any happiness in such a temporary arrangement anyway. As I say, it's a classic.... [0:32:30.8]
COUNSELOR: I miss the classic part of it or that fails to...
PATIENT: You do miss?
COUNSELOR: Well I don't think in classical terms and it sounds like a classical example of a very individual specific case with very individual people.
PATIENT: You mean you don't like my use of the word.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it doesn't enlighten me or I don't think you about that situation.
PATIENT: It does enlighten me because it puts things in perspective for me. I begin to see the thing really less an individual.
COUNSELOR: As a personal thing.
PATIENT: Yeah, and more perspective and more...
COUNSELOR: And for you I think that's unfortunate because what I think you need to do is to see things in a more personal light including yourself. [0:33:24.1]
PATIENT: I think I mentioned last week that I've never had a problem with myself for precisely the opposite of what you say and precisely for putting things at a certain distance. I've always rather felt that, for example, when I related the business about the political ambitions and so on, but I was able to come back, and see my own foolishness, and felt the foolishness of that, and put it into perspective, so to speak, that I was doing something that was worthwhile, and that I could be a little bit proud of because I didn't allow myself to get completely carried away by my fantasy about myself. And I did understand a little bit of their objective origination and what functions these fantasies played for me. So when I say about her that it was classic that probably sounds a little heartless. [0:34:24.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah it does. And it sounds like a way for you to keep from understanding the feelings for her.
PATIENT: Well that's true. Maybe I don't want to feel that strongly for her.
COUNSELOR: I noticed that even when you were role playing tonight and talking to me that you hadn't looked at me at all. That you looked at the ceiling and played with the Venetian blind, and I really had the feeling that it was very difficult for you to confront her; that you'd really rather not. [0:35:01.1]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well that's there two. There are two different styles. And my style of the two distinctly in the area of you can fool around and dance on the edges of things...
COUNSELOR: Can you think back to one minute ago what you were feeling right there? Your voice started to get a little shaky. Do you remember what was going on?
PATIENT: Yeah I think there's a certain, at least on my part, a certain revulsion towards emotional intimacy that kind of...
COUNSELOR: And yet one of your goals is to have an intimate...
PATIENT: Yeah, so to work through that in some way. You know I say work through that I mean work to it so that I can do it in my own terms which may or may not have completely the style that you're talking about where you would want to. But at least some circumspect allows two individuals to do that. I suppose you have to do that to in order to... [0:36:16.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay. I feel closer to you right now in this last little interchange than at any time during the hour so far and it's like you're talking about where you are right now. And it's really a way for me to know you much, much better and be able to help you much more than when you're talking about your sister etcetera. And I really find that very likable.
PATIENT: Well that's nice. I hope I (inaudible at 0:36:50.9).
COUNSELOR: Well what do you feel about it right now?
PATIENT: Well I feel that I couldn't possibly carry on a continuous interchange of something I think. Those things are pretty tender areas, and I couldn't possibly carry on anymore. I don't like to do it number one... [0:37:09.9]
COUNSELOR: You couldn't expose them for very long.
PATIENT: Yeah. Number two because there's a strong possibility that I could feel like a fool afterward. I think that I'm very frightened of appearing to you and appearing to myself as precious, in other words how I mean it as sort of a precious little creature. I think in some respects I secretly am although I probably shouldn't use a loaded term like that about myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What do you mean by precious? You don't want to...
PATIENT: Well the super sensitive wide eyed little boy.
COUNSELOR: But you're appearing more that way by your present behavior than you would because I realize that you're protecting yourself a great deal. [0:38:09.2]
PATIENT: So you're saying you see through it so easily that...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well I mean I get a feeling of you protecting yourself a great deal in here.
PATIENT: Well I am.
COUNSELOR: And what you're saying about what you do in the rest of your life too.
PATIENT: Yeah, I am. I'm not going to apologize for that because it's just the way I am. I want to work with you but you're going to work with me a little bit too.
COUNSELOR: What are you saying?
PATIENT: Well I'm saying knowing you can't expect me to come in and really on the instant (inaudible at 0:39:01.3) out of jealous and nervous material just a quivering...
COUNSELOR: I'm going to have to work to get it right? [0:39:13.7]
PATIENT: No. I don't mean to say that. I'm not saying that in the sense that I'm going to fight you because I don't intend to because that would be very foolish. But at the same time I'm really not fighting you I'm just talking about things that are within myself. I'm not really referring directly to you. This exercise is pretty much self-centered for me. I'm just saying that that's the way I am. I don't deal with myself I don't think that way so to deal with someone else that way is very, very hard especially when it's one hour a week to just come in and turn it on (inaudible at 0:39:53.9). So where the hell were we?
COUNSELOR: Well I like where we are right now, but I sense that you're very uncomfortable and want to get back to some subject matter right? [0:40:21.3]
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I thought it best and less tedious to tell some amusing stories rather than to... Because that's really a way to approach the thing anyway is by illusion.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But I don't like you telling stories. I find it very unhelpful. And if you want to tell me about incidents that were important, or painful, or happy, or whatever, that's fine if we work on how they affect you, or how you see them, or how it's important to you but not as a finished short story. Is that okay with you? [0:41:31.4]
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm not sure how that will mechanically proceed.
COUNSELOR: No, I'm not sure either, but I've probably got more practice at that than you do so that'll be my end of the bargain.
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling about yourself right now?
PATIENT: As you say I'm quite uncomfortable. I'm not sure what the direction to proceed in because I'm not at all familiar with talking in turn. I'm also very defensive at this point. [0:42:08.7]
COUNSELOR: Although you seem like...
PATIENT: I have a little resistance to what you're saying because again perhaps in your perception some of the pride I have is based on false pride or something. But I have a sense of the ridiculous too, and I don't want to appear ridiculous to myself. So that could be a squashable thing for me so I think that's one of the reasons why.
COUNSELOR: And you have to proceed at what level is comfortable for you to work.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. When you talk about how I feel about things, I think probably the dominating no in my reaction to things could be characterized as fear, and gross insecurity, or a feeling of childish ineptitude. [0:43:24.8]
COUNSELOR: Do you feel that way right now?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I do. And I think that that kind of thing is part of the reaction I had to my sister, and, of course, we've covered this before. But my preference for giving her appropriate kind of advice, not vis-�-vis the story, but vis-�-vis what she should do when you asked me to pretend like you were she. I'm thinking that was the best advice I could give because I'm just not very willing... This isn't my style as I say to say certain things or to really acknowledge that certain things are there, for example, her difficulties with her husband. Although I enjoy hearing her talk, I'd rather that those things were touched on lightly or in a way that didn't make me feel responsible for really having to say something to her. That we could both sort of... [0:44:38.9]
COUNSELOR: Well okay.
PATIENT: I'm very strongly affected by my family. I think that's one of the other approximate causes of my difficulties is that probably I am a little obsessed with them and my relationship to them, and I feel it's about because it's something that I do think about a great deal.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Since it's something you think about a great deal in the sense that this was obviously a very important one to you what if we spend the next few minutes thinking about other possibilities that you would've been comfortable with saying to your sister or that you feel comfortable saying to your sister right now. And I have one that just came to mind. Would you be willing to do this for a few minutes? [0:45:24.1]
PATIENT: Yeah, sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I had one that just came to mind and that is just the essence of what you just said to me. Okay, I'm going to pretend that I'm you talking to her. What's the name?
PATIENT: Shelley.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Shelley I feel uncomfortable your coming to be and in some sense casting responsibility on me to decide. That weighs on me heavily. I just feel uncomfortable. It's hard for me to know what to say. I don't want to be cast with that burden. [0:46:10.6]
PATIENT: Do you want me to...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, respond.
PATIENT: As Shelley would?
COUNSELOR: No. Is that something that you would say?
PATIENT: Oh, is that something I could be comfortable saying to her? No, because it's too heavy and at the same time I don't want to shut her out entirely. I really almost would rather have the luxury of having her go on, and me just making an act with respondence but still having heard what she had to say because it's important.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What kind of an inadequate response would you want?
PATIENT: Would I make?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Which made me feel comfortable?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That's very difficult because when somebody's being very sincere with you, it's difficult not to sound utterly fascist by saying something like well that's the way the ball bounces. Give them just enough so that they recognize that you're on their wavelength but not really say anything. In fact that's the emotion I remember feeling with Shelley because I wasn't really going to say to her some of the things that I thought. [0:47:12.2]
COUNSELOR: Some of the repulsion, the negative.
PATIENT: Yeah. Some of the things I thought. I feel immensely sorry for her but I didn't give her that idea at all. I mean my heart goes out to her. And whether you relate to it or not, one of the reasons why it goes out to her is because of the classicness of her dilemma of that type.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Would you be comfortable saying that to her? That your heart goes out to her. I really feel bad.
PATIENT: No I wouldn't feel comfortable about saying that.
COUNSELOR: And can you tell me why?
PATIENT: Because my emotional poise is so bad that I might burst into tears if I really came to that point where I'd say something. Because my emotional poise is that bad that it might just shatter, and then she'd be uncomfortable, and I'd be uncomfortable, and (inaudible at 0:48:10.8). So the best way was the way I did it. But at the same time that I... [0:48:14.0]
COUNSELOR: It seems like you were almost close to tears now in thinking about that. Is that true?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: I can imagine that happening I think partly as the result of...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But I did feel that, now that you mention it, that that was one of the causes of my own feeling about myself when I was listening kind of leaning back, and I wasn't going to really say what I felt partly as a matter of tact. But dreaming up a tactful way to say what you think sometimes that's too much. And if it is too much, then I just don't say anything at all. But I'd much rather in any event lean back and just try and make some non-committal response so that she knows that (inaudible at 0:49:20.6) well yeah, that's difficult and it's a difficult situation. See you can't really say anything because what you're really thinking or what's really going on you're not going to have that come out. You're not going to say that to her. It's certainly not very much help for her to know that my heart goes out to her. [0:49:44.3]
COUNSELOR: It isn't?
PATIENT: I don't think so. I think she knows that anyway subconsciously, or consciously, or whatever because otherwise she doesn't talk to anyone else, my brothers and sisters and parents. She may talk to my mother like that, but I don't think that we have a rapport that she does. But I think that's one of the answers or approaches, as far as I am concerned, is the emotional instability of my responses to things. The kind of thing where I can watch a, as I mentioned last week, a speech about Martin Luther King, or watch a news clip of something and get choked up about it on the one hand. You know it's insane really. Literally it's insane to watch Martin Luther King to give a speech and feel your eyes burn, just a snippet, and the lump in your throat and then have such gross and unsatisfactory relationships with real people. That's absurd. [0:51:12.1]
COUNSELOR: Well I can guess that one of the reasons that you're having gross and unsatisfactory relationships with people is that you're afraid to let your eyes burn and feel those tears with somebody just the way you just said about your sister.
PATIENT: Yeah I am. You think that ordinary people go that far?
COUNSELOR: And cry about it?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I started to laugh at that because I'm not sure what ordinary people would do but I was thinking that extraordinary people would be willing to do that. It just brought back an incident to me of a film that my whole extended family saw one time and it was over and they turned on the lights and I saw all of my uncles with tears in their eyes. I was really struck by what kind sensitive men my father and his brothers were that they weren't afraid to have those tears. That just came back to me like present time when we started talking about that. I don't know. If I were your sister, I would really feel very gifted by that interaction if I had been her, and you had said that, and shown tears about it. [0:52:57.7]
PATIENT: Well I don't know. It's very odd.
COUNSELOR: It's not satisfactory for you?
PATIENT: It isn't the style I suppose number one and it just isn't the way my family handle themselves in a way.
COUNSELOR: They don't show tears?
PATIENT: No, it's a lot breezier.
COUNSELOR: Pardon?
PATIENT: It's kind of a breezier kind of thing. While it's conceived I think from the background that I come from, my particular family, it's conceived of as showing a certain amount of instability or some stigma attached to expressing strong feelings in that way. [0:54:08.3]
COUNSELOR: And I hear real fear in that not only in your family but in you.
PATIENT: Well that's what I mean when I say it isn't in the style. I think there is some fear. The funny thing is I...
COUNSELOR: The funny thing is what?
PATIENT: Well the funny thing is you've got layer, on layer, on layer that the real problem may be that there is precisely that stigma attached to it. You know the fear of expressing. That's the way I feel about it anyway.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I agree. I agree.
PATIENT: You agree?
COUNSELOR: I agree that that may be the problem.
PATIENT: It just isn't thought appropriate to do that. [0:55:06.4]
COUNSELOR: What would happen if you did? What's your fear of what would happen?
PATIENT: Well I think that... I don't know. I think I'm talking in a superficial sense because I think that it would just be an inappropriate kind of thing for me to do.
COUNSELOR: And that's the extent?
PATIENT: Yeah. I shouldn't short change them entirely. There are different ways of expressing those things, tears and outright declaration are not the only way. I don't know what way the people in my family have chosen because I can't put my finger on any at this time. I just think that there are other ways. I think in many respects my family though has been a pretty grasping group in some ways (inaudible at 0:56:07.9) then you would be that way. I mean an emotional life like that isn't considered so important provided that the surface aspects of your life have certain decorousness to them. [0:56:23.9]
COUNSELOR: Have a certain what?
PATIENT: Decorousness to them. And I think I'm like my father in that way because he's an entirely withdrawn person emotionally. You would know more. He's self mocking. (inaudible at 0:56:43.1) and he's a very withdrawn guy. I don't like that in him, but I think that I can see myself as being that way. He's like me in the sense of mocking people and mocking himself. He doesn't even trust himself the way that I don't, or have no security, or whatever the reason is to take a given emotional express and just take it at face value and recognize it as a valid kind of thing. He'd be mocking it or mocking himself for feeling that way. [0:57:29.5]
COUNSELOR: The same way you would.
PATIENT: I don't know. For some reason this conversation is enormously depressing.
COUNSELOR: Is enormously depressing.
PATIENT: Yeah. It really is.
COUNSELOR: Do you have any ideas why?
PATIENT: Yeah I do. I do.
COUNSELOR: Could you tell me?
PATIENT: Because one of the things that I would really like to be able to do in a certain way as I mentioned that I'm particular feelings at this point is the ability to have that kind of emotional response. I mean that would be... I don't want to have it because it would be gratifying but it would be good to have someone else really know that and to express it strong enough. Now that you mention it, I do think of Shelley going on, and I don't know who else she talks to or whatnot, but she's operating under a heavy burden I think. It would be nice to do that. You just have to find the right stance to do it from. [0:58:56.6]
COUNSELOR: Can you say I have to find the right stance to do it from?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's what I mean. I have to find the right stance to do it from. But I don't know. As I say, that's obviously one of the difficulties.
COUNSELOR: Will you try out something again right now what you would find to be a response to Shelley given the fact of last week for example? [0:59:32.6]
END TRANSCRIPT
