TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Today is February 8. This is Carrie's fourth session with Tyler.
UNKNOWN SPEAKER: This is Session 5. This is Session Number 5.
PATIENT: Well? Well, I don't know where to begin. You know, I don't even know how to begin.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel?
PATIENT: I'm really angry at you. I'm angry at everyone. I just feel - I have all this shit piled on top of me; I can't stand it any more.
COUNSELOR: What kind of angry? What's that like to you? Do you want to throw something? Do you want to hit something? What do you want to do? What does it tell you to do? 
PATIENT: Probably hit people, throw things, swear, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Do it.
PATIENT: I really - the thing that I usually just do is step out away from it. I don't want to do that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. (Inaudible at 0:01:34.0)
PATIENT: All right, do you want me to tell you what I'm all angry about?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: All right. I'm just sort of angry at you, because I just feel like instead of - I just feel like I've got more responsibility once I got involved in this thing than I had before I went out. You read what I wrote in that thing. You know, I just got - trying that then I got really pissed off at you and I feel like there's all this added shit being piled on me. 0:02:10.2
COUNSELOR: By which "added shit" then?
PATIENT: Well, that thing you said about calling, but then I wouldn't call you.
COUNSELOR: That I wouldn't call you. I would and I wouldn't. I gave you a mixed message, right? Is that it?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Well, what your letter said, all right, what your diary said; is that what you're saying now?
PATIENT: Yes. It's been like I was - that just really frightened me, sort of, really, really scared me, because then, you know, I figured I wouldn't know how to handle it, and secondly, I wouldn't - oh, God, I wouldn't know how to help [anyone with] (ph) their problems. If I can just sort of...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Well, can I finish? I want to go on more.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: All right. And then I just - (Inaudible at 0:03:11.8). I have to stand up when I get really angry because I can't even... 
COUNSELOR: So do I. Okay.
PATIENT: (Cross talk) people when I... I just feel like, you know, like there's all this sort of stuff involved in - shit, I don't know. Like, well, I just feel like, all of a sudden, here it's like I'm just getting all involved in this thing I don't want to be in any more. I'm really scared, I want to get out of it, and I thought you - what you said was really stupid; I don't know why the hell you said it. I thought it took - you know, it was unfair advantage of the relationship, which, naturally, in sort of a therapy relationship, the client feels things for the therapist, because he's listening and stuff like that, and then you just sort of blew my mind at the end of the session. So I went home and had nothing to do but thing about it. 0:04:14.0
COUNSELOR: I dropped it on you.
PATIENT: And it ruined... All week I felt like you ruined my whole week. You ruined my whole week Tuesday. Then on Wednesday that goddamn fucking school and my kids climb in, we were going to do improvisations, and no, they want to talk about sex. They were talking about - this is their improvisation: Three girls. They pulled this girl in who didn't want to talk about it and was - because this one girl kind of either had sex, intercourse over the weekend and it upset her, or someone found out, I don't know. All this shit. My master teacher was there looking at me, freaking out, they're all freaking out. I thought I was healing (ph) through. I think everybody is trying to make me what I'm not, and I think you are included, in trying to mold me to something that I'm not. I really don't like it. In fact, I can't stand it, and as I sit here I'm getting more and more furious. I think the whole thing is so absurd, and then I just felt today was like the last straw. And to have to think about what's going on in here, plus all the other shit I have to think about, it's not worth it, it's just not worth it.
COUNSELOR: So you want to throw something, all right? How about that Kleenex box?
PATIENT: No, I want something heavy (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Carrie give me a break, Carrie. All right. No, seriously.
PATIENT: I can't throw it.
COUNSELOR: Try it. Why not? Get into it. Pick it up. Stand up. 
PATIENT: It doesn't mean anything now.
COUNSELOR: Close your... No laughing. Try not to laugh. Now, really try to get into your anger. I'm not going to let you hit me, by the way.
PATIENT: You're going to duck.
COUNSELOR: I'm going to duck. So you're going to have to be really good.
PATIENT: I am.
COUNSELOR: Okay, then start hitting.
(Banging sounds)
PATIENT: I've got one more box.
COUNSELOR: Try one more. Now try (cross talk) laughing. What makes you think (inaudible at 0:06:00.3). Don't give me any of your shit now. Get into it. Be serious about it.
(Banging sounds)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Again?
COUNSELOR: Don't follow me now. You're angry at me. What's this smiling shit, all right? 0:06:19.1
PATIENT: Well, I feel like an asshole, throwing the damn Kleenex box.
(Banging sounds)
PATIENT: Seriously, I'm going to hit you another five minutes (inaudible at 0:06:33.3). All right?
(Banging sounds)
COUNSELOR: Okay, hold the phone. Okay, I'm now worried. Okay.
PATIENT: I'm still really - you know, I'm angry. You know, I'm angry. It just seems everything I get into gets fucked up in some way that I'm just... ahhhh, like it's not worth the hassle.
COUNSELOR: I think I understand your fear, all right? 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:07:45.2)?
PATIENT: Sure. Okay. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, two things. I think with operating there, at least concerns with me is, something you do a lot, it's my guess, I'm guessing about it, it has to do with control. It has to do with if someone else has feelings towards you, strong feelings, it puts pressure on you to do something for them, or if you have strong feelings it means you'd have to lose control; i.e., for example, you said I ruined your week. I ruined your week, right? I was molding you, all right? It's control; like I'm controlling you, all right? I mean I'm doing that to you. All right, I'm molding you, I'm ruining your week. I'm doing all these things, all right? Isn't that the issue of control, like you're afraid I'm going to control you? 
PATIENT: But you are.
COUNSELOR: You're afraid I'm going to control you.
PATIENT: It's not I'm afraid you are, right? You even said so last week. You have been at the game a lot longer than I have.
COUNSELOR: You can't let yourself be influenced by me, because I'm not controlling you. I mean whether I influence you or not is up to you; that is like the trust thing. But let's move and come back to that a little bit. The issue of the thing you said in here; let's do your diary, okay?
PATIENT: I'm sure I'll attempt it alone (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like when you feel that way, when you feel controlled, like you're going to be controlled, or when like there are strong feelings that you'll interpret, you interpret, you do, as meaning you have to do something about it - like I had a strong feeling, right, about you. You got frightened, scared. Why? Because, like, you assume that implies you actually could do something, doesn't it? 0:10:33.7 
Okay, let me go on. Yeah, seeming sucked in; that's the control, all right. [Bite me] (ph). You know, you don't have to do what I tell you to do. I'm not going to tell you to do anything. [Bite me] (ph). Really got scared that I was crazy and therapy was making it worse. You're going to have that feeling, going to have that feeling. What do you do? It's me in therapy, or whether there's somebody else, you're going to have that feeling. It all happen faster with me, I think, than most people, because I really turn on the pressure. All right.
PATIENT: Why did you say that thing about the phone?
COUNSELOR: That's how I felt at the moment.
PATIENT: How could you say that to someone at the end of the session? I mean how could you say that?
COUNSELOR: I wasn't - Actually I should have said that earlier so we had some time to talk about it, all right? 
PATIENT: You know, I think that's really wrong, I mean to think that you wouldn't have any influence on someone. Any sort of interaction is influence, and especially this sort of interaction and influence, and a hell of a lot more than normal.
COUNSELOR: Okay, now, what was it about me saying that that made you so (whistling sound)? I mean what did that imply for you? What does it mean to you? 0:12:19.9
PATIENT: Well, it wasn't a - it just scared me, like there's some sort of closed-in feeling involved I didn't want anything to do with at all, but see, you didn't either, and I felt, you know, I didn't want to be pushative (ph) like that, and if there's some sort of therapy technique that that was involved with, I want to know what the hell it was.
COUNSELOR: What I say when I say my own feelings is how I feel, okay? When I do [without stage, right] (ph), there's no implications to your behavior. It's like my craziness; I'm sharing with you my craziness. And it may be crazy, it may not be, that's irrelevant, but the point is, all right, those are strong feelings I have, and all you should do is understand those feelings in my terms, right, because they were my feelings. They don't mean you should do anything about them. That's a problem like you have, okay, seems to me; that is, somebody having a strong feeling and you immediately think like it means something that you have to do. True or not true?
PATIENT: Yeah, but I think that's - you know, of course. I don't see why not?
COUNSELOR: The point is, if we can learn to deal with that in here, if you can learn to deal with that with me, then you can deal with it with other people. Let's say I was a guy you were dating, okay, and I had those strong feelings. You would have the same reaction. True?
PATIENT: Probably.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so let's work on that. Let's work that through. Let's see where that goes.
PATIENT: But I still have a right to be angry at you for...
COUNSELOR: Damn right, sure. You always have a right to be angry with me, whether it is reality or not. I mean anger is okay no matter what, okay? That's another thing, like it is okay to be angry, yeah, sure. Now whether you're right, you know, whether - what you're going to do about that... Now the difference here is, like, if we had this scene and I was invested in you to the extent that I had an investment in how you behaved, how you felt, which way you went, or like I might not stick around though, right? Now the difference is now I'm sticking around, okay, and we can explore that. 0:14:50.6
Now if I was dating you, okay, and we had this thing, that would have probably been the end. You would have given me this fight and then you would have flown (whistling sound) out the door, right? And then I would have been pissed off and not known what the hell happened and I wouldn't have called you again, right? Now the difference here is we're stuck with each other for 22 hours, right? And we can work it through maybe,, and that act is what it's all about.
PATIENT: So I'm a technique (ph) to you, let me tell you.
COUNSELOR: Well, how do you feel?
PATIENT: See, I know I still have a different sort of perspective on it, you know, and I can follow you now, you know, but I mean I just think that I had a real right - oh shit, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You always have a right to have feelings.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: You're really pissed at me.
PATIENT: Yeah, really. I'm pissed at every - yeah. It's just that I didn't expect it from you, you know; anybody else, but not you.
COUNSELOR: What did you get from me?
PATIENT: Well, you were putting demands on me, goddamn it, just like everyone else.
COUNSELOR: What kind of demands?
PATIENT: Well, I thought - in the middle of the night you call with some fucking problem that I was supposed to handle and I'm screwed up enough by myself.
COUNSELOR: That's your fantasy, all right?
PATIENT: All right, but in my reality also, right?
COUNSELOR: You were wishing I would call you; that was part of it. True or not true?
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't - I would say true.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't have mind that.
COUNSELOR: Okay, and I did in fact...
PATIENT: But I didn't (cross talk)
COUNSELOR: I was teasing you. 0:16:36.4
PATIENT: Oh geez. Well, wait a minute. I want to say something about it. Right from the beginning, like, I said to you, and I thought it was really abnormal on my part, but I don't think so now, when I consider the relationship, that I would feel something towards you.
COUNSELOR: Well, me, I have feelings, too. That's true, of course you would, and of course I would, too; that's the point.
PATIENT: So I don't see why the hell - so of course, like, I was sort of semi-wishing. Well, you know that, goddamn it. I already told you before.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, of course. I told you, too.
PATIENT: Well, I didn't believe you.
COUNSELOR: The point is we're two people here. You happen to be a patient, all right, and I happen to be a therapist, all right, but that's irrelevant to like in some sense where our feelings are alike. That is, we would have had these feelings if we were out on the street and we approached each other in another (inaudible at 0:17:30.8) and so these are the feelings that you get, like, when you interact with a man.
PATIENT: Yeah, but I wouldn't open up to a man like I would with you to think about sex.
COUNSELOR: Interesting. Why not?
PATIENT: Oh Christ, who does right off the street with someone? You've been through it. Yeah, but you're the unusual one. 
COUNSELOR: [I'm crazy] (ph).
PATIENT: That's what makes you so attractive, but most people aren't like that. And you also could handle it when they all (ph) come back to you. Most people could handle it would say I opened up to them. [They become involved] (ph).
COUNSELOR: That's right.
PATIENT: So you are unusual. So it's not just a regular relationship.
COUNSELOR: That's right, it's not.
PATIENT: And so that did have more implication, and I think I had still every right, you know, to be - I'm not as angry now because I'm tightened (ph) now but... 0:18:19.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're not as angry about it now because you're talking about it; good point. That's right. There were two reasons why I said I might call like that. One is that sometimes I do have problems that - the point of this is not so much to solve your problems. I'm not so much interested in solving your problems per se, but I'm interested in teaching you a method whereby you can solve your own problems. I know that method. I can call up any stranger, schlock on the street, like you, I could call you, inexperienced zilch, right? And I'm a nothing, you're a nothing. I could call - even you I could call and work through my problems with, okay? And I almost called you Sunday to ask you to come in an hour early, okay? Ask you to come in an hour early and you would be my therapist, okay? That's what I was going to ask you to do, because I had something, like I really needed somebody. It's a problem that you have, it's a similar thing, and I thought you could really be helpful with me on that.
The only reason I didn't call you is I worked it through, bubbled through it with another relationship, and I worked it through, okay?
Now, there are two reasons I would call you. Not because I need you, winch, and I don't need you to solve my problems, right? 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But you could help me, and it would help you in learning how to help other people, okay, and that would help you. Communicating empathy you're not long on, and that's basically what it is, but I thought of other ways that I'm going to give you some - because it sounds like it's a very - four or five pages of things to read Wednesday and things to do outside this hour to help you with that, and that's a better way, because I think you might be too threatened with me initially I think now. Too much responsibility on your shoulders, like you said, right? And I think you'd be afraid to fail with me, because you're invested in me. 0:20:38.7
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 0:20:43.1)
COUNSELOR: Well, what's the responsibility about? I mean what kind of responsibility? What's that about? Are you afraid you'd fail with me and I wouldn't like you any more, I'd throw you out because you were...
PATIENT: I don't care now if you like me or not, I really don't, so I don't think I'm worried about failing now.
COUNSELOR: All right. I don't believe you.
PATIENT: We wouldn't (ph).
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling)
PATIENT: Well, I tried.
COUNSELOR: Nice try. 
PATIENT: "A" for effort.
COUNSELOR: Doesn't work.
PATIENT: Well, why should - of course - yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, now you were thrashing around for an hour, okay? Not untypical for you it was, when you get panicked; how do I get out of the situation? Fight and flight are your two high characteristics. I don't worry about the fight. I don't worry that you hit me in the groin with that thing; I don't worry about that. The fight part I can handle, okay? And that's okay, we get some of that out and find out what that means. The flight I'm worried about. Like you were talking about - don't leave me until those 20 hours is up; stick with me. Now you can determine everything we do in this hour, okay? 0:22:03.1
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: But don't run away, okay? Promise? 
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 0:22:11.8) after that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. With you in psychoanalysis you would get to these feelings in about nine months at $35 an hour. You would start to understand that you're... In a crisis, what do you do? What do you do in a crisis?
PATIENT: Split.
COUNSELOR: But what do you do first?
PATIENT: Panic.
COUNSELOR: Panic, fight, or you flight. True or not true?
PATIENT: Probably true. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, what I want to get you to do, I want to get you to shift modes and give you other ways of dealing with that. There are other ways. I want to get you to do more sharing; that's what therapy is in a way. Stay with me and share those feelings with me. When you're in a crisis, share it with someone, like me or someone else. Right now, it's me, okay? And the other is like work, work, like work with it, okay? And that's not going to be easy. Like we're condensing four years into 20 sessions, okay; it's not going to be easy. That's another reason I gave you my phone number; in case you get too panicky, you can always call me. Oy (ph), responsibility, as if you've got enough troubles, right? You've got to come to me; I was born to soothe you, all right? 
PATIENT: Well, that's why I guess I say that I'm not (inaudible at 0:23:52.4) I came. I want it, I'm paying for it.
COUNSELOR: I never promised you a rose garden.
(Chuckling)
PATIENT: Gee, I should write a book about that, yeah. Yes, I do sometimes just hope - that feeling is just everyone is pressuring me to do things.
COUNSELOR: Stay in it. You'll be fine now. All right, we can go as fast or as far as you want to in this.
PATIENT: No, I don't want to go fast.
COUNSELOR: Okay, yeah. You see what I mean? Okay. (Inaudible at 0:24:33.7). Yeah. You know, one thing you don't have to worry about: I'm not going to go to bed with you. You can't seduce me, by the way. You can get my feelings, strong feelings about that, but you can't get me to do it. In a hundred years could you do it.
PATIENT: Why not?
COUNSELOR: Because it would be too dangerous.
PATIENT: It would be a volatile thing.
COUNSELOR: It would be very dangerous for me, oh, wow.
PATIENT: For you?
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah. For you it would be good. For you it would be good, I think. Of course, that's my own live ego, right?
PATIENT: Right (laughing).
COUNSELOR: But I still think that's true. I still think that's true. And it is a possible solution. I mean...
PATIENT: It isn't though.
COUNSELOR: One-third of all psychotherapists in Nevada go to bed with their clients, or at least one client in that group, one-third.
PATIENT: That's really not fair to the client.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I don't think so. Frankly, I think it works. I'm not brave enough, though. I'm not brave enough for that. That's one I'm not willing to do, because I could be killed professionally in the Midwest. In Nevada, I might do it, but here I lose my license, something like that.
PATIENT: Well, what about the patient?
COUNSELOR: I think it's helpful to the patient.
PATIENT: It wouldn't be for me. That would be the worst thing possible.
COUNSELOR: Fine (ph).
PATIENT: Because you would just sort of smell (ph) my ideas about a lot of things, like just in the bed; oh, helped her out, then jump out like she doesn't even mean anything. That would be ridiculous. You don't do that with a client. That's not what it is. 0:26:10.6
COUNSELOR: Well, what's it called, that magical client stuff you're talking about?
PATIENT: Well, it's someone that you care about for an hour because she pays you.
COUNSELOR: What are you paying? Bullshit. What are you paying? You could drop that tomorrow and it wouldn't make any more or any less money. In fact, I would make more money if you dropped that tomorrow, so that's bullshit.
PATIENT: Fucking counseling service would lose my money.
COUNSELOR: Well, what's that to me? I don't get paid by them anyhow.
PATIENT: Well, that's how the relationship was entered into, anyway.
COUNSELOR: What I'm saying is that if I did that I would not - there would be no - I would get no gain out of that except experiencing something with you. And I wouldn't be able to go to bed with you because of - clearly because whether or not she really - if she really knows that thing (ph) and she has been everywhere. She's had all this - you know, like that wouldn't be it. It would be because I was as long attracted to you, and I am, and two, because I like you, and three...
PATIENT: I'm not sure I (chuckling)...
COUNSELOR: ...like it could be a good outcome for both of us. The only way that would not be a good outcome, in my opinion, is that if either one of us was unwilling to talk about whatever came up, because it would be hard in some way. It could get very intense and you could get real crazy. I mean you could do your fight/flight, right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And if you got into - the fight we'd be okay, but be honest, the only thing that would be dangerous is if you did your flight; that's a risky part. That's risky. I mean because you could start distorting like crazy. We all distort, right? You could have me arrested and all kinds of things like that.
PATIENT: Got to have balls (ph). 0:28:04.9
COUNSELOR: Yeah, sure. And I don't know about your flight yet. I mean if you just go out and pull a flight on me, I'd be very vulnerable, very vulnerable. Forget about if you were - even if you were my client. If you're just a graduate student I could get into trouble. So you couldn't talk me into it here; I don't have that high a trust. And secondly - and the second issue is I'm in love with another woman and that would not - you know, like she would...
PATIENT: Well, then, that's the real issue, isn't it?
COUNSELOR: Ah, but there are two things. Even if I wasn't in love with her I wouldn't do it.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, I know that.
COUNSELOR: But that doesn't mean - you see, okay - use me as a model for a moment, okay?
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: If it's possible. What I'm saying is I have strong feelings like you do. That doesn't imply that I have to...
PATIENT: [I know] (ph).
COUNSELOR: ...I have to. I don't feel pressured by you, because I know we have these mutual feelings, okay? One of the reasons I bring it up early is because it happened early, and second reason is that I think we'd be dancing around, well, much longer, unless we shared how we feel about each other, okay? I think that's true in any relationship.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so.
COUNSELOR: So what - but...
PATIENT: No, I agree with you. I just hope that I was really honest, sort of, in my feelings and I didn't...
COUNSELOR: You were.
PATIENT: But there's a difference in that I think you realize that this part would happen.
COUNSELOR: I'm beyond being instrumental. I'm being I know. I know how you said it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean I think you would realize it, sort of, in that it has happened before, it must be in all the books already.
COUNSELOR: I don't read books (inaudible at 0:30:00.1)
PATIENT: You don't? Good. That there would be some sort of attraction between prime patient [Winsberg Liza Beneveret] (ph). That might be another thing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. I think it should be verbalized though.
PATIENT: Yeah, but see, I felt guilty about it, kind of. 0:30:18.8
COUNSELOR: Oh, sure. You're afraid of the student (ph) and (inaudible at 0:30:22.0).
PATIENT: I  - 
COUNSELOR: I mean a good girl is not sexually attracted to him, to a man, and if she is and she admits that she is, then oh, my God, it's a mortal sin, right?
PATIENT: I'm not that. No, no, no, not that.
COUNSELOR: So, you know, why are you so pissed at me? And that I had feelings in you, but you would say but part of those happen to be about each other.
PATIENT: Because I thought that you were putting demands on me. 
COUNSELOR: What's my demand? What are the demands...
PATIENT: Well, that's just it. We went through it, because that's what I feel like. I feel like people putting demands on me. I feel like they're coming in, they're going to start asking me things. I mean you apparently sort of say yes. I feel (inaudible at 0:31:10.9) I feel that way. I don't, I really...
COUNSELOR: You go, "Ahhh..." Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess that would be it.
COUNSELOR: And like the feelings you have are so strong that it's hard to share those with anybody, because anybody you share them with would think you're crazy, all right? Is that how you feel about it?
PATIENT: No. You know, I also never thought about like that step.
COUNSELOR: What step? Oh.
PATIENT: Of just running, if you wouldn't have to share them with anyone.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Say that another way; I didn't quite understand that.
PATIENT: I guess I never thought of it in terms of like having such strong feelings. I just thought of sharing with someone crazy like I...
COUNSELOR: Okay, no, let's forget about that. 0:32:10.8
PATIENT: I don't think I [guess it very much in terms of] (ph) sharing.
COUNSELOR: Right, exactly.
PATIENT: Like I really don't think it's possible for me like that.
COUNSELOR: The point is now what we have to do is understand who you are, and then also understand how you act in a crisis or how you, so far, as far as I can tell... I'm going to give you something to take home, by the way, unless there is someone else around who can do it? I don't want to hear (inaudible at 0:32:41.1) But okay, maybe I'll have to (inaudible). I want to check it out. That's my initial guess, like the fight/flight. In a crisis, what do you do? Fight/flight, I guess, that's my guess. Okay, and that's not working for you too well; true or not true? Okay, I want to see how strong that is. I'm going to give you a little test to take home that you can administer to yourself. Is that okay?
PATIENT: Fine, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Bring it in next time and I'll score it and we'll both look at it and see what it means. Fight and flight is okay, we don't want to get rid of all of that, and there are some times that flight is good and sometimes that fight is good. Fight with me is always good, by the way, so you have to pick your person, and fight with some people, just scare them and they'll leave, right? Or flight with some people is not good because they won't know or understand. Like a lot of guys won't understand why what they (inaudible at 0:33:37.1). So you'd have to pick and choose. And sharing you have to pick and choose, too, like some people can't handle feelings like (inaudible at 0:33:50.2) your parents can't (inaudible) that is. Flight maybe is better for them.
So in other words, there are like five typical ways people interact with somebody, work with them, pair with them, sharing things, become dependent. And you're afraid to become dependent; you're probably low dependency, and fight and flight. I want to just try to teach you ways to do more pairing and sharing, or more pairing and work. 0:34:30.0
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: Okay. How do you feel?
PATIENT: Better. Good.
COUNSELOR: I'm really glad to see you feel that way.
PATIENT: You are? I'm glad to see you, too. I was okay before I got in here. I just feel like kind of more screwed up all the time, so you know, like, that thing you gave me to look at? Well, I'm not going there. That was my first reaction; I'm not going there. I'm not even going to bother (inaudible at 0:35:09.2). I mean like it scared me.
COUNSELOR: That's okay. Then I'd trust your feelings. (Inaudible at 0:35:20.1) you're not ready for that then. (Inaudible) It would all come out there, and (inaudible at 0:35:31.3). Oh, it's in a group, yeah, and it's in a group too, holy cow.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: That may not be the first thing for you to do. That might be fairly advanced. In a way, it's not advanced like, you know...
PATIENT: But it's not until the end of April anyway.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I want to find for you a light T group. Not a light T group, but a T group. Maybe you'll have to switch into one of my T groups if you want, if I ever get one together. I'm afraid you do have a very garden variety problem, by the way.
PATIENT: A very what?
COUNSELOR: Garden variety problem.
PATIENT: What is a garden variety...
COUNSELOR: A garden variety. Clearly one, umm, out of dimension. It is my opinion that at least 24 percent of the women in this country have your, quote, problem, worse than you do. 0:36:24.9
PATIENT: I'm chauvinistic, right? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is. Well, it is in some things.
PATIENT: Yeah, go on.
COUNSELOR: I think it's delightful, by the way. I'm constantly delighted by you.
PATIENT: You know...
COUNSELOR: That really makes you mad, right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, that's what I've done for my whole life: Delight people. I really think it's just unusual...
COUNSELOR: Well, why should I be different?
PATIENT: Because I show you I'm not that delightful person. How can you still like me? I bitch, I threw Kleenex wads and all that shit.
COUNSELOR: I like that. I like the bitch part. You've been sitting on the bitch part too long.
PATIENT: Well, you know that's because when I finally let go I don't know when to stop, like I make it like a Virginia Woolf sort of thing, you know. I mean I just really care, like I'm [a-leaving] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's the fight stuff, and that's the way you deal with your anxiety now is fight.
PATIENT: Yeah, and then I get shell-shocked and then I start crying and then I just feel so horribly guilty.
COUNSELOR: Guilty. Oh, you made an ass out of yourself.
PATIENT: A complete asshole. Plus, I didn't let the other - my arrangements with the other person.
COUNSELOR: I think I was right about something about you. Getting at your feelings is not so much a problem with you, it's like knowing how to deal with them in a more constructive way that, oops, we're (ph) the brothers. Fortunately that's easy, by the way. I brought some stuff home today for you, to get you into some other things. I mean I'll Xerox them today and give them to you later. I have a very good feeling about your therapy, by the way. 0:38:18.5
PATIENT: You do?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Oh, that's good. Last Friday it's just like really - see, that's the thing. You know, I find it - because I really like you. I find it hard to criticize you, you know, so I figure if I didn't write it down, like I wouldn't say anything about how pissed off I was and how furious I was last Friday, and I know that's a real problem. What I do is I build up frustration so they finally explode and I have all the reasons in the world to say I'm going to split, you know.
COUNSELOR: That's right.
PATIENT: And the other person doesn't know what the hell she's leaving for.
COUNSELOR: That's right, that's right, that's right. 
PATIENT: And I know that, kind of. I know I do it, but I really don't know how to handle - so I decided I had to write that down, sort of, you know.
COUNSELOR: I'm glad you did, by the way. I mean it's really, really very good, you know, (inaudible at 0:39:12.2) .
PATIENT: So that's why I wrote (inaudible at 0:39:21.6) because I just had to flip it off and throw (inaudible at 0:39:23.6) check the grammar.
(Inaudible at 0:39:30.7)
COUNSELOR: And I want you to criticize me, by the way, because I made a mistake last year once.
PATIENT: Six  months ago you made a mistake, one mistake. Oh, boy, you're slipping.
COUNSELOR: I do make mistakes.
PATIENT: Get out. Was it a big one?
COUNSELOR: Actually I make a lot of mistakes, make a lot of, lot of mistakes, but I'm alluding to a process (inaudible at 0:39:54.6). That's why I'm where I am now. So I'm willing to take a chance and make mistakes.
PATIENT: Do you think you made a mistake last Friday?
COUNSELOR: No. Well, see, anytime you make a mistake as two people, we can talk about it, they can work that through and find out what they mean, so I don't know. In some sense, an issue was a mistake, because I ruined your weekend. I ruined your weekend. I ruined your weekend. 0:40:20.3
PATIENT: You ruined my weekend. You, you, you (chuckling). You're guilty about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, no, I'm sorry, I don't have any guilt. I have no guilt.
PATIENT: God, that's wonderful.
COUNSELOR: But there are a few things I have some guilt about that I'm getting into but it's very racy (ph) stuff and it doesn't - I feel very, well, good about that. I'm happy dealing with that.
PATIENT: Do you have to have the responsibility sometimes? I mean like they're throwing piles of shit on top of you, like (inaudible at 0:40:53.7)?
COUNSELOR: No. I feel pressure by myself sometimes to do some things. I don't do anything I don't want to do. 
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: But you're in a different position though; you have people who are controlling you, or are really controlling you.
PATIENT: Oh God.
COUNSELOR: I'm not one of those people, sorry, and I'm not in a position where other people can control me. See, part of your problem is a real one; that is, there are people who are trying to control you. It's called University of Chicago, et al., and that's - but you opted into that, so you know...
PATIENT: See, this morning was horrible like in that, you know, teaching. It was just ridic... First of all, I found the whole thing sort of absurd, but that's another thing. And secondly, you know, these kids came in, well, they're doing improvisations in class before going to drama, got this class, and the first thing they talked about, they wanted to have it being between two kids, one trying to get another one to smoke some grass. Well, they probably want to - see how I react to that. So I said, "Fine, go ahead and do it."
COUNSELOR: You don't smoke.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You do smoke.
PATIENT: Yeah. And so then they said (chuckling)... What do I come across as, Susie Girl Scout?
COUNSELOR: In your own mind you do.
PATIENT: Well, I must come across from yours, too, if you said something like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Most of the girls I've seen in college prep  program was in - education program, that's fine (ph). Those kind of things [you find] (ph). I'll be curious to find out what kind of reactions you had on grass. I mean there are some things I know you don't do. I know you don't shoot things in your arm. I know you don't do acid.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: I know you don't do speed. You might take tranquilizers.
PATIENT: No, I never have.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'll bet you haven't had any hash, a guess.
PATIENT: You're wrong (ph).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:43:23.2) Okay. 
PATIENT: I mean I have a knife (ph), you know. 
COUNSELOR: Well, before this, the process that a little bit - like you were insulted that I thought of you as so na�ve and...
PATIENT: Right, and then I even thought about Howard (ph) girls and education (inaudible at 0:43:43.0).
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry I said that, because that's not straight. That's tongue-in-cheek. That's black (ph) therapy, by the way. That's not good; I'm sorry I did that. I don't mean anything like that. I mean the woman I love is a hysterical woman and I like that. I mean that's using you it as derogatively, okay? I don't mean it that way, and I shouldn't say it because it has a common meaning of being derogatively. I don't mean that way at all. I'm sorry. I lost my head. I made a mistake.
PATIENT: That's two in six months.
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling) Okay, where were you when I interrupted you?
PATIENT: Well, I was in the process about what you said, about the grass and stuff.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well, I - what were you going to say about it?
PATIENT: Well, it made me - it really pissed me off, because it's superficial (ph) judgment and...
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean everybody does that to you. 0:44:36.4
PATIENT: Oh, you know, they don't. You see, I do that to myself. When I want to handle a situation I become like - oh, I just don't know what's going wrong, that sort of thing. I know I do it. I become a little girl, (kissing sound) and get yourself right out in the (inaudible at 0:44:54.4) of it. (Inaudible at 0:44:56.5) go out to lunch anyway.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I haven't done that with you so that bothered me when you said that.
COUNSELOR: That's right, and you should have. I was dumb. I did a dumb thing, true. Three.
PATIENT: Gee, da (ph).
COUNSELOR: In some defense of my dumb thing, so I mean really defensive (inaudible at 0:45:19.7). That had not to do with you as a person, that wasn't probable, because it had to do with a statistical correlation between Sasha (ph), the first year student who is smoking. Now, evidently that statistic has changed. See, smoking is a cultural event; it spreads. Like it's spreading...
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean how often you don't get into it? Probably any party you go to. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like all changing now. I haven't been - I'm not into parties for a long time, so I don't know. I mean I have all serious type of events, but the Sasha (inaudible at 0:45:50.8) that I have - I've been carrying around. Obviously I have to change it.
PATIENT: I can imagine what this stereotype is, too.
COUNSELOR: Really angry (inaudible at 0:46:00.9)
PATIENT: Yeah. That's a very chauvinistic, too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm sure you can see the [long girls] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Of course.
PATIENT: Pretty attracted to them in comparison to like a lot of the fourth students.
COUNSELOR: Not bad. Not bad (inaudible at 0:46:15.0)
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 0:46:13.7) Not too bright. Yeah, not too bright. For a good time.
(Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Enough, enough.
PATIENT: So you were wrong. 0:46:29.6
COUNSELOR: Okay, so I have prejudices, of course.
PATIENT: So you are human (chuckling). Well, for you. Going back for you after that... Another thing you did, you just sort of assumed that getting into drugs was getting into coolness, kind of, I thought.
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: I got from what you said.
COUNSELOR: No correlation. Ah, just one correlation. I'm (inaudible at 0:46:58.2). I mean (inaudible).
PATIENT: All right. So what was I saying?
COUNSELOR: What were you saying? 
PATIENT: Oh, so I had this class. I had, you know, this woman, I can't stand her anyways, I just hate her, and she's the head director of my program and I don't like her at all. She's there and they said, we want to talk about something with you and Jennifer. I said, "Fine, what is it?" She says, "Why can't these teachers, you know, let us live our own lives?" And then they started saying, "We were just talking in the hall about sleeping with our boyfriends," and the classroom teacher come in and they decided to talk to me and wanted to do an improvisation on this. 0:47:55.2
So they pick out this girl who is the only white girl in the class, and I know damn well that she doesn't even date, I don't think, and she's very, very sort of inhibited by the group. And she and this other girl, who I don't know what had happened to her this weekend, but is either upset or something happened, were supposed to be talking about their boyfriends and she took the aspirin (ph) and she's saying, "Well, yes, you know, I've gone all the way with Terrance this week, " and the teacher is supposed to come in and say, "What did you do with Terrance?" So they get involved and this other girl didn't know how to handle it. 0:48:26.6
COUNSELOR: What kind of situation was this? In class?
PATIENT: Yeah. This is improvisation class with my teacher sitting there just... Plus, they're talking about - can you imagine me, not even having sex with anyone, listening to all this stuff? That made me so...
COUNSELOR: Inadequate.
PATIENT: Inadequate; you're not kidding. I just felt ridic - I felt, "Oh, you are so out to lunch," and so I cannot take it, really.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Really. I'd try to go out and hire someone just so I can have a class tomorrow.
COUNSELOR: Hire someone? Oh, I see. (inaudible at 0:49:11.0)
PATIENT: And so then they just - I didn't like chicken out. They want to discuss it, you know, and they want to see how I'm going to react, so I let them do their thing on it. And then this other girl, that I was worried about her because I didn't - well, then all of a sudden, I said what the hell are you doing in this classroom with these kids? You have enough problems of your own and it's a lot of bullshit if they even be up there handling... I don't know. I just got completely turned off by the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: They were grouping (ph) too.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: More like they were grouping.
PATIENT: Well, they were definitely testing me out.
COUNSELOR: You have to get - can we go eat, babe (ph)? 
PATIENT: Yup.
COUNSELOR: You have to get into a group. (Inaudible at 0:49:55.5). 
PATIENT: Oh, I had such a - I don't know. That gestalt thing is such a mess. 
COUNSELOR: Not a gestalt group. Gestalt group is not where you're at. First of all, gestalt group is not a group. It is two people interacting with an audience. Two people interacting with an audience is not a group. True or not true?
PATIENT: True, true.
COUNSELOR: You've got to get into a group. As a matter of fact, I would be willing to do a group free if you - like if you get like - and organize it and get like 11 other people together. I'll do a one-day group free.
PATIENT: So the people I know?
COUNSELOR: If you had the balls for it, so to speak. 0:50:29.9
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:50:32.7). Yeah, it would be a T group. I tell you what? I have a motive. One would be to help you, but two, I have some new stuff I want to try out, that I haven't done before, and it's light. When I usually do a T group I do in and, wham, and I do a very powerful T group, I can do very powerful therapy. I mean you don't sit there and I've got it easy, okay? But I want to try another method which is very light which builds into heavier stuff so you don't even know it. Like it happens - like you've had to work out problems you didn't even know - like there was very little trauma to it, and I have a whole series of things I want to try that work into (inaudible at 0:51:17.5) group, unless you'd be willing to organize that.
PATIENT: How many people you want?
COUNSELOR: Twelve.
PATIENT: Six guys, six girls?
COUNSELOR: That would be optimal. I'd be willing to do it for free.
PATIENT: [Don't feed me] (ph) I'm scared kind of...
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: I'm scared of sort of group things.
COUNSELOR: Of course you are; that's the problem in your class. See, if you were - the thing is, if I never went to bed with - if I was a virgin, all right - hard to imagine - but if I was a virgin (chuckling) - okay, if I was a virgin and I went into that class I could handle it without any trouble.
PATIENT: Well, I handle it superficially; that's what - always I look really good kind of outwardly.
COUNSELOR: You did.
PATIENT: Sure I did.
COUNSELOR: I would feel good inwardly, too.
PATIENT: Well, no, I didn't feel good inwardly, because it's a joke.
COUNSELOR: I have a similar problem when I do groups with heads. I've never done any acid. And you know, it's the same kind of phenomena; they can do things I can't because of that, and I still feel tripped and I'm relatively comfortable with that, and they accept me as a leader even though I haven't done that. And it sounds like there's a parallel there, okay? Do you get the parallel? 0:52:45.1
PATIENT: Yeah, I see it.
COUNSELOR: But it doesn't seem the same. It doesn't feel the same.
PATIENT: No, I can see it but like I - you know, like it's - well, it just goes hopey (ph) here is 15 year olds, you know, who going to bed is such an easy thing, and their asinine teacher is sitting out there and it's not an easy thing, you know. So it just sort of bothered me on top of everything else.
COUNSELOR: It's class distinction. Okay...
PATIENT: Are you kidding? It's the class distinction?
COUNSELOR: Class distinction, yes, it is. 
PATIENT: That's true there, but that's also rationalization, because look at everybody in my class. Just sleep around; that's very worthy. Well, anyone who I've ever liked, anyone... See, most people (ph) who haven't slept I can't stand. I mean, you know what they're like, those girls?
COUNSELOR: It reminds you of you.
PATIENT: No, not that bad. You know, it just sort of really - completely out of it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. They're not at dumb as they make people believe.
PATIENT: Maybe. (Inaudible at 0:53:51.1) give them a chance.
COUNSELOR: They do the na�ve thing. Don't you?
PATIENT: Yeah. It was just the whole thing was bad. Like she's there gawking at me, they're all bothering me, and you come in and you'll be gawking at me. I'm just sick of it. 0:54:10.6 
COUNSELOR: I have a thing about you that's all - I see you - let me do a big interpretation and see if it fits, okay? I lost this hour. Okay?
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: I have a sense that you may be trying to undo all of that anger you have for me, like making up to me. Are you making up to me? Are you being a good girl for me now?
PATIENT: Maybe a little, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, that's (inaudible at 0:54:44.9) delightful, all right? I don't know if you want to be delightful or....
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: It is delightful. (Inaudible at 0:54:58.8) it does invoke those intense feelings with me, warm. It's intense, it makes me feel at ease and attracted to you; that's what it does in me. I'm telling you this, because I just thought those (inaudible at 0:55:07.6). Because you can be angry with me, you know. You don't have - that was good, the anger; I like that. I like the anger. And you can be delightful with me if you want; that's okay too, or not, but you should know what you're doing, right? Though she feels like she blew it, right?
PATIENT: No, no. I was going to be angry the whole time I was in here; I was determined to be that way, really.
COUNSELOR: You have to be how you are with me; that's important. And I can recognize what that's about. First of all, you've got to be, and then you've got to look at what it was, right? I frankly hope you never loose that flirtatious, delightful quality. Now, but the problem is not losing that at all, the problem is developing some other way so you have these choices, all right? If I thought you would lose that in here, I wouldn't want to talk to you, because I like that too much. I hate warm stuff.
PATIENT: Well, what if I don't like myself very much lately so [unless someone likes something in the afternoon...} (ph)
COUNSELOR: We've got about - less than five minutes and I don't want you walking out of here up the wall. I figure you have a rest from hanging on the wall. So is there something that is still hanging for you? In other words, it seems to me it's all right to go like - you know, it felt all right to me that I got that letter and that you had went through turmoil when you weren't with me. That felt all right, because you don't have to do it all the time, either. So maybe you should have a rest. But can we resolve anything that is... The point is, are you going to go out...
PATIENT: No, I'm not going to go out, you know, feeling like I have felt before.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: You know, I don't' feel like there's all this pressure on me or responsibility. Not at all, um-umm. In other places maybe, but not from here.
COUNSELOR: Okay, let's... Do you eat right? Let's do some other things. Now do you eat right?
PATIENT: Do I eat?
COUNSELOR: Eat right. 
PATIENT: Right?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You look like you do. You look like a pretty sturdy type.
PATIENT: You mean do I eat correct foods?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, what do you eat?
PATIENT: Meat. I'm on a diet.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You want to put on weight, eh?
PATIENT: No, are you kidding me? I'm losing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, why? Stand up and take a look at you. Why are you losing weight? What is it? 0:58:19.5
PATIENT: Because my waist is too big.
COUNSELOR: As she's sucking in her gut.
(Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Okay. Because I'm getting into vitamins these days, kind of like this year.
PATIENT: Oh really? You know, they're not supposed to be good for you.
COUNSELOR: That's an old wives' tale, though.
PATIENT: Well, I heard...
COUNSELOR: Depends. What kind? 
PATIENT: All right, I mean like I guess a vitamin, one or two or three tablets, I mean all sorts of multivitamins, because you get too many. 
COUNSELOR: Depends upon which kinds. Like the standard, what is it? What is the standard multivitamin?
PATIENT: Good Earth..
COUNSELOR: Yeah, they're not supposed to be very good. I don't see why not. I'm doing a health thing these days.
PATIENT: That's good, because it's like getting in touch with your body sort of stuff.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Right, that's how I feel.
COUNSELOR: These are very good, by the way. As far as I know, I'm not an expert, but I'm taking these daily, one apiece daily.
PATIENT: Oh, what does 30 gram do for you?
COUNSELOR: Vitamin E you're - supposed to retard aging. My friends tell me, even if they have a sore and they break open one of those capsules and they rub it on it, it heals in no time at all, for example.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I'm not an expert on this, right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I'm not telling you this as a professional now, I'm just telling you this as a friend, okay?
PATIENT: Yup. What have you been eating?
COUNSELOR: I only eat once a day.
PATIENT: Oh, what time?
COUNSELOR: That's another reason. 6:00 o'clock though.
PATIENT: That's not good, you know.
COUNSELOR: Why isn't that good?
PATIENT: Because then you're on a full stomach at night. You should be eating...
COUNSELOR: Oh, but I work until 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning.
PATIENT: Oh, all right. What do you eat?
COUNSELOR: It's shifting now. I'm getting into more vegetables.
PATIENT: Because I've been on chicken for about three days, just straight chicken.
COUNSELOR: And a lot of water. Is that the diet you're on? 1:00:07.4
PATIENT: Oh, you mean Stillman's (ph)?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: No. I can't handle that too often, because I hate fruit.
COUNSELOR: No, I've been just eating things that I feel like eating that seem good.
PATIENT: See, you know, I have a thing also, Glen , that when I really don't like myself I have a tendency to eat like physically strong or something, I get really ugly kind of, you know. I mean I never gain like really a whole lot of weight. Sometimes I gain ten pounds, something do (ph) in there, but I stopped that.
COUNSELOR: See, I don't see you as a freak for not fucking around all the time, because I think that it is okay, it feels okay to me. It won't feel okay forever, because I see you as coming - it is okay. It just feels okay to me somehow.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I guess what's (inaudible at 1:01:02.1) it just seems like people can get so easily involved in relationships, and I find it very hard, you know. Like I don't get attracted to too many people. So then I - lately I've been thinking that that's my rationalization; I don't want to, but then sometimes I say, I don't know, because when I do, you know, things come fairly easily.
COUNSELOR: By the way, you're probably going to have a lot of bad relationships after, before you have a good one, so you might as well - any time you want to start having your bad ones, you might as well do it.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Short term, intense.
PATIENT: What if I had a bad one?
COUNSELOR: Now, I don't mean bad. Like for some of them you can't expect it to like - you've got to get out of your Cinderella syndrome, okay?
PATIENT: The knight in shining armor?
COUNSELOR: The knight in shining armor. Like some people are going to be good for you for a while. Like you'll probably sleep with a bunch of guys before... And that's not necessarily true. Like the next guy might be it, but it may not, you know, but that doesn't mean it will be bad. There are no advantages, as far as I can tell, for getting married as a virgin.
PATIENT: I can't think of any.
COUNSELOR: Well, there are some old myths about that. And with the right guy it could be - you could make it into an advantage, but it really isn't.
PATIENT: No, I've never thought there was very much advantage, honestly, but that was sort of intellectually I could say it. Emotionally I couldn't, you know, like give it up with it.
COUNSELOR: Okay, now look, you're taking up all my time here and (inaudible at 1:02:39.4) 
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: Get out of here. Okay, what we're figuring to do is give you the appointment slips, and we're going to do it again, we're going to forget again but for... 
END TRANSCRIPT
