TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
[NOTE: When 'blank audio' is stated, it means no conversation.]


BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client Number 0735-103, 1970 Session Number 11.


PATIENT: Like I feel I think I need a few days vacation.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Sitting downstairs there thinking just now, one of these sessions I think I'd rather turn this around and ask you the questions all during the session. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Because you haven't been hearing from me enough or because there's stuff you want to know or?


PATIENT: No, no, just things...like, oh, for instance this idea that's, I don't know. I've got an ear stopped up, so things may be a little [inaudible at 0:01:22.8]... 


COUNSELOR: Should I speak a little louder?


PATIENT: No, but I don't know how loud I'm speaking too, so I don't know whether you hear me or not.


COUNSELOR: Oh, I can hear fine.


PATIENT: But this idea that I have in the back of my mind that, I want to have an affair and I feel that my wife owes it to me...that she should tolerate it and all this. Just...what do you think of this idea?


COUNSELOR: What do I think of the idea?


PATIENT: Yeah, and is it completely nutty or is it just normal thinking, the background that I have or what?


COUNSELOR: You say if (ph) wanting to get another perspective on that?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: All right. What would I think about it?


PATIENT: Like I said, is it something that sounds completely nutty or is it maybe normal thinking for the background that I have or what?


COUNSELOR: Oh, you mean like, is there something abnormal in it? You just have an uncomfortable feeling that there might be or something?


PATIENT: Yeah. Like I said, I persistently have this idea of, "Boy, I sure wished I had the guts to end it all, just to get out of this mess." And that's not what I'd consider normal thinking. [0:03:00.0]


COUNSELOR: When you say it's not normal thinking, do you mean like, I don't know, like someone hearing you might say, "Boy, that guy's pretty sick." Or something along those lines?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Wondering if you're normal or?


PATIENT: Well, I believe, it seemed like to me the normal person would say, "Now here's a problem, how am I going to solve it?" To me, I just want to get out of the situation, I don't want to try to solve it. And this, isn't some, to me it would be a normal way of looking at the situation.


COUNSELOR: Like maybe somebody would be approaching it very constructively and stuff and, but for you, it's just been so hard to deal with and like there's been such a weight on you, it would be good to get the weight off?


PATIENT: Yeah, yesterday was a real doozie (ph). Sunday night I took the wife and kids down to Missouri with me. I had to be in the lab Monday. Went in the lab, didn't accomplish a whole lot due to the way the whole thing was set up. You just can't do this long distance specializing, can't get the same thing accomplished over the phone that you can when you're there in person but it takes longer when you're there in person. It's more expensive I guess and everything, but you get accomplished to your liking at least. So I wasted a day in the lab and came back, more or less wasted, but came back and Tuesday morning, first thing on my desk was a note from the internal financing department: Call us. So I called them and they wanted to see me up in, some guy wanted to see me in his office. And what happened at, what had happened was that one of the bill collectors had decided they had put up with us long enough, they were going to go to the company and tell them that, if the company couldn't make me pay this bill, why they were going to have to start, what is it, garnishee or whatever it is, proceedings against it. So the guy called me in, told me what the problem was, I told him what the reason was for not paying it. He said, well he had two alternatives to talk to me about it and see if I could do anything about it or to talk to my boss and he didn't want to talk to my boss. And I said, I told him that he'd have to figure that, he could go talk to my boss, maybe that would help him understand how much of a bad financial situation I'm in. [0:06:06.8] And so he said he, it sounded like I wasn't happy that I might be...trying to find another job and I said, "You damn bet you I am." (chuckling) So he went to my boss, told him the story. Pretty soon my boss comes to me. So I sit there with this 'I told you so' attitude. Boss talked to me about this bill and I said, "Well back in September I came to you asking for a decent raise." And I said, "It didn't happen." I said, "I'm just getting further in debt with the pay that I'm making." You know and all this, and I said, "It's been happening that way for about two years." So I went home last night with this feeling that, now maybe I've gotten the point across to him. I really don't think he believed me when I told him I just didn't feel like I was making what a guy with my background should be making.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like that part of it would be satisfaction.


PATIENT: Yeah, actually I was kind of glad it came up, as silly as it may seem. Like I said, it proved to, it got the point across I think to my boss that I just wasn't making enough to make ends meet, and of course I've been telling him that for almost a year now or trying to. So he comes up with this, well about the first of next year, when the raises come out, maybe we can do better...and I told him by then I'd either be gone or the problem would, one of the two. I have a desire, I guess you might say right now, to be painfully truthful to him. Painful to him, not me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Telling him that too late.


PATIENT: Yeah, more or less.


COUNSELOR: Too late to be talking about raises for next year [inaudible at 0:08:18.8]... and (ph) since last year was his last chance. [blank audio from 0:08:23.8 to 0:09:04.3] Well, I guess that part...letting him in on where you really stood, like that was, you're glad of that, but the effect of the whole mess was that... 


PATIENT: I told him, I said that, "When the bill collectors call me, it just kind of tears me up." I said, "I can't take this, not being able to pay my bills." That's one thing that just...I mean it just, like I said, it tears me up. That's why I let my wife take care of the bills, because that way at least I can sleep at night. And she's got the intestinal fortitude to tell the guys to go jump in the lake, she's paying them as much as she can or something like this, whereas, I'm not that kind.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know.


PATIENT: We have a different outlook on this problem because of the way we were brought up. So she takes care of the bills and they call me and tell me when they're not paid and it serves to upset my sleep pattern. [blank audio from 0:10:00.6 to 0:10:18.7] Seems like to me right now that, every once in a while she gets (ph) more encouraging. Well, she says things and does things that are more encouraging than have been in the past. And the problem right now seems to be more my job than it is my family life. Like for instance, the other day she went down to Missouri when she was actually supposed to work, and she just had somebody else work for her, which was, well, to me it's encouraging because it shows that she would rather be with me than stay home and go to work. But I still have my doubts.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: Last week I was supposed to go down there on a Thursday night, stay in the lab on Friday and come back on Friday night. She couldn't have gone because at that time she hadn't arranged to have somebody else work for her and she didn't have the day off or anything, so. Coming up to, at the last minute I wasn't able to go because of the equipment not being ready. And now that night, one of the old boyfriends calls and this, of course, it's a damn good thing you didn't go because if you'd have gone he'd have been over here, in my mind. Maybe it wouldn't have happened but, I mean the last of that stuff was my outlet point (ph).


COUNSELOR: Nice that she wants to go with you but you can't trust her if you leave her alone?


PATIENT: She wants me to believe this but I can't quite grasp it. Because when she, when this guy called, she of course said, "I didn't want him to come over." But I can't really take that at face value because I don't know whether to believe it or not.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Just her saying that she didn't really want him to come over is not enough evidence? [blank audio from 0:12:29.8 to 0:12:50.0]


PATIENT: And the fact that she went with me when she was supposed to been working, like this, is encouraging.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's nice.


PATIENT: Last night she was supposed to go to a band practice and I wasn't too much in favor of her going. So she stayed home because she didn't, at first she said that it was because I didn't want her to go. Then later she said that it was because she had a sore throat and she didn't feel like going. But little things like this...have a way of encouraging me but I still have my doubts.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Like I say, it's going to take time for me to build up a trust in her again.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. And I guess like those things were encouraging partly because like, they were things. They weren't just words, they were actions. I mean, an action really comes home with you in a way that a stream of words doesn't?


PATIENT: Yeah. The other day I thought of one that, for a while I've thought about trying to see if I could institute it, but then after a while I thought, "Well, no, it wouldn't help anything, it wouldn't prove anything." So I was going to try to get you to get somebody to, some girl to call me...to give me a fictitious name, just so she'd call the house a few times and create some curiosity on the part of my wife. And just kind of get her to thinking that maybe I had something going that she didn't know about...that all of the sudden it had come out into the light. But I got to thinking, "No, this wouldn't help anything." [So, pursue it.] (ph) [0:14:21.4]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, just thought of it. I don't know, I imagine you wouldn't mind getting her curiosity up [overlapping voices at 0:14:35.1]... 


PATIENT: I sure as hell wouldn't.


COUNSELOR: ...and making her a little nervous?


PATIENT: To get her to thinking that, just to thinking that there's something going on that she doesn't know about, so that maybe she could understand how I feel about the whole situation... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: ...back when I was having to comprehend all this.


COUNSELOR: Put her through some of the same stuff, partly just out of tit for tat I guess and partly so that she would know what you were talking about?


PATIENT: Like I said, I'm nuts.


COUNSELOR: Like when you, something like that seems like a nutty thing?


PATIENT: Yeah, it [inaudible at 0:15:23.2]... This doesn't seem the normal thinking on things.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Maybe we should talk about that a little more, about the normal thing and whether you're nuts, because we started to and then it fell off in the shuffle.


PATIENT: Well, to me the normal thing when one of the people in a marriage has an affair, I've been brought up to believe that the normal thing is for the other person, if it's ceased and everything, for the other person to excuse it, forget it and...get things back to normal. And instead of trying to bring on, well now this, is what she had done, I think I'm going to have this much, I ought to be able to do this much and have it be called a fair play, revenge or whatever you want to call it.


COUNSELOR: That's your point of view? And it doesn't square with your ideal of what a normal person would do, what most people would do or maybe will do? I mean, what would be the sensible thing to do?


PATIENT: It's like at work, whenever you do something and you accomplish a task that is set before you, you feel like, well now that's money in the bank, that's points toward next year's raise. And you build up a few points and then you think, well next year's raise ought to be this much...and it doesn't measure up, because maybe the boss didn't put these points in the bank, so to speak, like you did. And it's just like I say, when she's having an affair, I feel like I've got points in the bank there, I ought to be able to use them...money in the bank like thing. It's just the type of reasoning that I use.


COUNSELOR: Like she owes you something? Maybe that's not quite the correct way to put it.


PATIENT: It doesn't quite fit but there's no other way I can think of right now to put it, but that's the idea that... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, well.


PATIENT: ...this, is what she's done, I ought to be able to do this. But like I say, nonetheless, whenever it's supposedly everything is erased, it's supposed to start out from scratch again, and I can't go back to that zero latitude type of thing.


COUNSELOR: When you say 'it's supposed to', I'm not quite sure what you mean by 'it's supposed to', like that's what your parents would have said or that's what sensible people would do or that's the good way to relate to people? [0:18:25.5]


PATIENT: That's what I've been brought up to believe is the good way to do things. And now I have, like I said, in the last five years I have completely changed a lot of my thinking along the lines with respect to ethics, religion, just a lot of things...that I used to be taught, this, is what you should do, this, is what should happen now... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: ...and it's all down in your little pat formulas, and I have changed all the formulas and so all the answers come out different now.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they use this stuff really like, judge not less you be judged and stuff like that?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But now it's different? [blank audio from 0:19:11.6 to 0:19:28.3] And I guess what you're telling me is that, you still think this, is the way you should behave, even though lots of your values have changed, that you're not acting like that? Is that right or maybe you're not, maybe it's not like that you think you should behave like that?


PATIENT: I think it's, from a standpoint of I don't know which belief is better. Which one should I hold onto? The one that I have developed or the one that I was taught when I was a kid? And I'm trying to weigh the two against the other and say, "Now this, is the one's the one I ought to keep and throw the other one out." I've conflicting views with some.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Because really, a matter of trying to decide which one you do believe?


PATIENT: Like I used to believe that religion was a good 50 percent of a person's life and if you didn't have that much religion in your life then you were lacking now, but now I don't believe that. I believe that religion is maybe 10 percent if it's that. And of course a lot of religions believe that religion ought to be 90, 95 percent of your life...and this day to day work is just trivial stuff, what you do between Sundays...that occupies your time. I mean, I believe that life is a whole lot more than just going to church on Sunday. It's just, well, like I say, I was brought up to believe that this religion should occupy a great percentage of your life. And it has that value fighting against the current value that I want to give it. And not wanting to compromise and say, well now we'll meet halfway, it always seemed 90 and 10, that ought to be 50 percent maybe, but I don't want to give it that much for sure, because I believe that living is more than just going to church. [0:21:25.5]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, and there's another part of what you're saying too. Like a part of this, is like, what should you believe? And I guess the other part of it is like, you have some question like, am I nuts or something?


PATIENT: I know up and even into college, I was very insecure and I felt that if I didn't have...friends that felt certain ways about me, I was...not, well, just insecure. And now, I'm getting to the point where I really don't care if I've got any friends or not. It's, well, a new type of freedom that I haven't been able to develop until recently.


COUNSELOR: No longer feeling like they have to like you? It's like if, and if they don't that's just tough? [blank audio from 0:23:03.3 to 0:23:49.9] Change? (ph)


PATIENT: Even things like, I always have what I consider weird ideas or far out ideas. And with this idea of the coming age of the unisex...I've off times thought about this idea of restrooms...the men and the women's restrooms. One of these days I suppose they'll just have restroom written on the door, men and women all going in the same restroom...public restrooms. And right now it wouldn't bother me at all if that was the situation, but I know a great deal in the population, it would just drive them up the wall...and this, is not something I was taught when I was young, it's just something I have developed. Because my wife and I both run around the house without any clothes on a lot of the time at night...it doesn't bother us at all if the kids come walking past us and we don't have anything on. My folks would never have thought of doing something like this. They never...they go in their bedroom, shut the door and lock it before they'd undress. To me it just doesn't seem that important.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That, you've come up with a lot of really different ideas from the way you were brought and they're good solid with you, but you're also aware that they're different from other people. Maybe they're, probably different from most people. [blank audio from 0:25:21.4 to 0:25:58.4]


PATIENT: Speaking of restrooms, could I use? Can you shut it off for a second while I use the restroom? And I still think I'm going to have to go to the neurologist and pursue this theory on some physical malady, just to prove that either it's wrong or right, one of the two, eventually.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, so you know one way or the other. [blank audio from 0:26:25.4 to 0:27:01.9]


PATIENT: You never did answer my question. Am I nuts or not?


COUNSELOR: Oh, that's right I didn't. I avoided that one. The reason why I avoided it was because nuts or not nuts or normal and abnormal don't seem like very useful categories to me and like I don't think in those categories.


PATIENT: Yeah, it'll define parameters.


COUNSELOR: It will define parameters? Oh, ill define?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Oh. But that isn't to say that I don't want to talk about your wondering about yourself or something, because like that seems like an important feeling to me.


PATIENT: It's kind of curious, as much as it plays on my mind that maybe it isn't...it doesn't have some [inaudible at 0:28:12.7]... indeed because of the fact that it plays on my mind so much.


COUNSELOR: It's a nagging worry.


PATIENT: Yeah, especially when you think of it a week or two at a time...it's, I sure wished I had the gun to do it with or... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...it would all be over in just a few seconds, if I just had the guts enough to do it.


COUNSELOR: And I guess in a lot of ways it would be a tremendous relief just to have it all over with?


PATIENT: Yeah, but that's a hell of a way to solve a problem.


COUNSELOR: It doesn't seem like a sensible thing to do to you?


PATIENT: No. The only reason I think I think of that so much is because it seems like that's the only way to cure all the problems.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: I mean there's, you can put in a lot of work and solve a few of the problems but you still have things that wouldn't be solved.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Like looking ahead and like there's something that you will solve if you work, but you'll never have any real peace. It will always be, some of the problems will still be there nagging at you and they'll never let you alone.


PATIENT: Or even if you could solve most of them, there are other problems that will come up, which will just take their place.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like it would just be so nice to have a real rest, to be able just to relax and not have stuff to worry about for a while, to be peaceful? [blank audio from 0:30:15.3 to 0:30:52.3]


PATIENT: I just think it would be nice to even just take a few days vacation to get away from things, but still your problems would be out there floating, you know?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like even if you went away, like you'd take your problems along with you?


PATIENT: [inaudible at 0:31:00.5]... yes, you do. To me an ideal situation would be to say, well [inaudible]... to pay off all your bills, get a babysitter for the kids, take the wife and go out and camp out for a week or so...just to kind of get away from everything. But the first two things can't be met on that theory, so you can't follow through with the rest of them.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you're caught in the whole situation and can't get out even for a week?


PATIENT: So you theorize that maybe just staying at work and keeping your mind busy at work, keep your mind off the bills you can't pay, as long as the bill collectors don't call you and remind you.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, because those things stand and the best you can do is concentrate on your work and try not to think about it because they're still there.


PATIENT: But your work has got to be interesting enough for you to think about it, instead of... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...other things, and right at the moment, my work isn't that interesting.


COUNSELOR: It doesn't keep you from worrying?


PATIENT: That's why I say the first thing I got to do is get me another job that's more interesting, pays better and... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...and it would be the situation that I would like to be in, because I can't change the one I'm in now.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So the one you're in now is already messed up beyond any repair? 


PATIENT: Well, it could be repaired but I don't have the control to repair it. Just like this one program that I've been working on today that's in the Missouri lab. My boss would say, "Here's what we want. Here's a blank check, do what you have to, to solve the problem." And that would be all right, but he stumbles around about what he wants accomplished. He doesn't give me this 'you've got free reign to solve the problem', after he gives me the problem. I have to do two things, figure out what needs to be done or figure what the problem is and figure out what needs to be done, and then figure out how I'm going to do it with a limited budget that we do it with. [0:33:50.9]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it feels like your hands are partly tied because you haven't got the authority or the money to do all that's necessary.


PATIENT: It's like he ties your thumbs together and says, "You can operate within your range now." And your range is just your four fingers. [blank audio from 0:34:14.6 to 0:34:43.0]


COUNSELOR: I don't think my cactus will like you.


PATIENT: Oh, am I bothering it? I didn't even see the green there, I thought that was a dead stem sticking out there. I was sitting here looking at the trees and I'm sure glad I don't live in Kansas. They just don't have trees like those in Kansas.


COUNSELOR: Yeah? I've never... And I guess there's something terribly frustrating about trying to operate while you're hamstrung?


PATIENT: To say the least. [blank audio from 0:35:23.4 to 0:35:57.2] Actually, I feel this, is the way I've been doing my wife, to a certain extent, on finances. I'm giving her my whole paycheck, which isn't very much, and saying, "Here pay the bills." And it just can't be done.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: And I'm taking the fact that the bills aren't paid out on her, when it's just as much my fault, I guess, as it is hers.


COUNSELOR: In a sense doing to her what your boss is doing to you?


PATIENT: No (ph). [0:36:29.6]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you just have bad luck or?


PATIENT: I do. I was thinking the other day that, so you work your butt off, ever since we've gotten married and I want so much for her not to have to work, from two standpoints. She could stay at home and keep a clean house. Second, that she wouldn't have to be running her legs off to make a few dollars. Especially, that I still love her.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: At least what I know of love.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, you care about her and appreciate how hard she is working now (ph).


PATIENT: A lot of the time I don't think I get the message across to her that I do appreciate so much...like she's beating her head against the wall. I didn't give her anything for her birthday, because I didn't have any money, and yet she gives me something for my birthday and makes me feel like a bum. [blank audio from 0:38:07.2 to 0:38:32.9]


COUNSELOR: It feels terrible to have her give you something you're not giving her? [blank audio from 0:38:39.0 to 0:39:02.5]


PATIENT: Something just doesn't jive there. I don't trust her out of my sight and yet, like I said, I feel like a heel when she gives me a present and I don't give her one, on birthdays or Father's Day and Mother's Day and things like this. [blank audio from 0:39:18.1 to 0:39:42.2]


COUNSELOR: Well, yeah. Yeah, I know like it, like you get contradictory feelings toward her, right? [blank audio from 0:39:47.4 to 0:39:58.1] (phone ringing) - Hello? Yeah. Can I call you back at 3:30 Matt? Yeah, or can you call me? 2:25. Sure. Okay. Okay, good. - [blank audio from 0:40:24.6 to 0:40:55.4]


PATIENT: I've been getting kind of depressed the last few days. I think this little episode yesterday kind of cemented things.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I called her and told her about it and she said, well, she'd turned around and call these bill collectors and told them that she sent them a payment, and claimed that she really got hot under the collar about this one that had called work. Even that to me is a sign of love, concern or something.


COUNSELOR: Oh, to you that is a sign of concern to you? And it sounds like you appreciate the signs of love and concern like that and at the same... 


PATIENT: Doesn't everybody? 


COUNSELOR: Huh?


PATIENT: Doesn't everybody?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah, she's good.


PATIENT: And at the same time what?


COUNSELOR: At the same time it made you a little sad?


PATIENT: No, the fact that they called the lab or talked or wrote a letter to the lab, over the fact that I wasn't paying my bills [inaudible at 0:42:23.0]... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.


PATIENT: If I could say, I started to say that, at the same time I don't really know whether to believe her or not because I've had these letters before, about to pay this bill and I tell her, "Well, you better call these people and tell them we'll try to send them some money this payday." And she claimed that she would and then the next week or two we get another letter and so, this seems to say that she hadn't even bothered to call them you know?


COUNSELOR: But you don't know it... 


PATIENT: I just don't know if she really did it or not.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. And you don't, just because she says something doesn't make it so, as far as you're concerned?


PATIENT: Yeah, but when she says she went out with a certain guy, I'll believe that before I'll believe anything. I wouldn't question that in the least and I don't know why. I have at times in the past thought about just calling home...and saying, "Well, I've got to go bowling or going to go play baseball or something...to cause me to get home late, and just have her wonder whether or not I went to play baseball or bowling or whatever I said I was going to do. And even to make it more suspicious, in the back of the car there's a place down underneath the floor where you can store things. So I have stored sleeping bags, air mattresses and when I put them there I made sure that she kind of noticed it, so that she could create...what's the sleeping bag in the car for? Well, this, is something you wouldn't need to go bowling. You know, this, is just something that I think I did to create curiosity maybe, suspicion.


COUNSELOR: Because you want her to spend some time wondering about you?


PATIENT: At least think I was capable of doing the same thing that she did. 


[0:45:00.0]


COUNSELOR: It's almost like, kind of respect?


PATIENT: Yeah, I guess you could call it that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It looked like that struck a cord with you?


PATIENT: It's a weird form of respect isn't it?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is. I don't know, it doesn't seem so weird to me, because if what I got out of it was that, sometimes you feel like she takes you for granted.


PATIENT: Well, a lot of the time I feel that way. Would you go to extremes like, say for instance, if you had a guy that you were dating and you wanted to create the impression with him that you were a woman of the world, that you would leave, say an article of man's clothing out in your apartment, where he could be sure to notice it? (chuckling) I mean, that's the kind of respect that it sounded like you were trying to get to. Like leave a pair of socks over behind the couch so that he would say..., "What are these men's socks doing here behind the couch?"


COUNSELOR: I see, you say... 


PATIENT: And you can blush appropriately and say, "Well now, I didn't notice they were there."


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, okay. And you're saying, well, it is weird in a way. I mean, look most people wouldn't do that.


PATIENT: No, no, they wouldn't. I guess it's really not sensible because most people would try to make sure there was no form of suspicion there.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. But to you I guess suspicion means?


PATIENT: Virility. In a word.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess... 


PATIENT: I was just thinking today, this guy in the cafeteria that I saw and his wife just had a baby. I was just thinking...all married men go around with this, all married men with children go around with this 'I'm virile' attitude about them, whether they realize it or not maybe..., "I've got children, question my virility will you?"


COUNSELOR: I guess virility is an important issue for you?


PATIENT: To a man, yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, feel you're up to all other men? [blank audio from 0:47:49.1 to 0:48:19.0] And I guess virility is being competent and effective but especially like, sexually effective? [blank audio from 0:48:28.9 to 0:48:54.4] It's like if your wife's suspicious of you, well, that means she thinks you're a sexy guy.


PATIENT: At least to someone. [blank audio from 0:49:05.1 to 0:49:41.2]


COUNSELOR: And I guess you're implying there that, at least to someone who is... 


PATIENT: And if that someone isn't her, then it might be somebody else.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Because if you see it, she doesn't see you as sexy a girl will come?


PATIENT: I don't know, I don't think so. To me it seems like she says that I'm somebody that she tolerates while she's between affairs?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. To you it seems like she is patronizing or looks down on you?


PATIENT: Last Thursday night there, she said she'd sure like to call this one guy and see what he was doing, but she knew that, well, she couldn't. I don't know whether she knew she couldn't for some reason or whether she just couldn't or whether she didn't want really to but she kind of had it in the back of her mind, and this kind of bugged me. And then when this other guy called later on, why that seemed to put the frosting on the cake. Sure a damn good thing I didn't go out of town, because being there, I think I upset the applecart.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. I mean...put it the way you feel, like it feels you're not in the picture, like she's going to get rolling too?


PATIENT: Clearly it seems that way to me. I mean, it's just I'm worried about, I've put things together that looks it. I just don't think my makeup will take another one.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Along the lines of her having affairs, you've had all the stuff you can take?


PATIENT: Like the next one, is that it be me walking out on her, than her having the right to walk out on me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I won't have that again?


PATIENT: No, I've already said that but it didn't seem to take.


COUNSELOR: Didn't have enough effect on her?


PATIENT: Not from where I stood. She took it as, "Don't tell me what to do." You know, this, is the attitude that I gathered, that she accepted it in. [blank audio from 0:52:59.7 to 0:53:26.9]


COUNSELOR: So, she's going to thrust back at you and instead of... 


PATIENT: Seems like in a lot of things she's too damn independent. Where I want her to be reliant on me she's more independent, and where I want her to be independent it seems like she relies on me, and this upsets my thinking.


COUNSELOR: I guess we should be quitting for the day.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: Do you want to try and get another time in this week?


PATIENT: Yeah, if you have the time.


COUNSELOR: Sure. Would it be possible Friday at 5:30?


PATIENT: As far as I know now, yeah.


COUNSELOR: Oh, good. Okay. 


[0:55:14.6 - End of Audio]


END TRANSCRIPT
