TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning. 
CLIENT: Hi. So interesting weekend. I mean it was a good weekend. I [didn't end up] going to my friend's. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: So I did some other stuff (inaudible at 00:00:31].8) actually. And things at home have been fine. I mean there was a lot more talking and crying and whatever. And I mean Franklin has come to the point that—at first I was kind of annoyed because I thought he trying to –. Not annoyed but bothered because I thought—I felt like he was trying to kind of guilt me a little bit into maybe being a little overdramatic about—just trying to guilt me to stay or whatever. [0:01:11.5]
And I was feeling some like hesitation towards separating and him moving out or whatever. Because he's been really great to me and whatever. And all he's been talking about is how he wants the chance to show me that he can—he's been talking a lot about how –. He's been thinking a lot about how this has changed—he's looking at his past. He's looking at whatever and how it's changed the way that he's thinking about things a lot and about his life. And wants to really feel positive that—like he feels really confident that he can change and work this out. And you know of course I've been telling him that I want to hope for that as well. [0:02:10.2]
I just don't—right now I don't know. I can't say. And then he would get upset because he felt like then I was saying that I didn't want to give it another chance. And I was like, "I'm not saying that I don't want to give it another chance but my decision about how I want things to be right now is not changing." And yeah I'm a little bit wary of if it can change. And how I'll be able to feel like it's changed. I guess. And it's like as it stands it right now he doesn't want to consider himself single. Because he's thinking about me all the time and doesn't want to do anything besides like work on himself and do better so that we can have a future together. [0:03:12.0]
But like I guess I can't help but also feel a little bit of pressure on myself. I mean I don't think that he's putting pressure on me. I think I'm probably creating it a little bit. But I start to feel a little bit of pressure about making it work. And I really don't think that he is putting pressure on me. I think he just really wants it to work. And so—I don't know. I don't know. It appears that this is somewhat of a wake up call for him in terms of what he's been doing. And how he's treated me and stuff. And at first when he was looking for apartments he was really sad about it. And was like, "I don't want to live with roommates." And duh, duh, duh. [0:04:11.5]
But now he's like—I mean like he actually may have even found something already. Two places responded to him. One is $475 with two guys on the beach. And it's actually four blocks from where we live. 
THERAPIST: Wow. 
CLIENT: Which would be great. And good for him too because of his work. And moving is easier and all of that. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: And then another one, which is $325, and I guess they would only need $600 for him to move in. The only issue is they're looking for somebody for August 1st. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's a little bit further away. It's like three or four stops away from where we are now. So he'd be a little further from work or whatever. But it's fine. And so I guess he's going to set up a time to go see that place. Maybe because that would be really good because then he could still give me money towards our credit card stuff. The trips we took and all that stuff. And we decided that the only bill—well that the only financial thing that we're not going to separate for now is the phone. [0:05:26.6]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Only because it might be a little bit costly. His bill would be more. It's cheaper on the family plan. And I get the school discount of like nineteen percent. So it just makes more sense to (inaudible at 00:05:37].5). So we're going to keep that. But I mean with like $325 a month for rent and then like $40 for your utilities that's good. And I mean he can—I can feel okay asking him for money for credit cards. And he can save more. 
And for the first time in probably our relationship he can actually be the one to be taking me on a date because he'll have money. And buy things. And not me feeling like it's our money until we're buying each other presents. But everything's combined and everything is all whatever. And especially before we had the dental bills that's going to be done. August was one last payment. So I mean yeah. I'm feeling good about that. [0:06:31.4]
THERAPIST: Good. 
CLIENT: I'm feeling good about where this is headed. I mean I told my landlord that Franklin would be moving out. And so I need to find a roommate. And I'm hoping that they're not going to turn around and be dicks. Because he was like, "Well you know we rented it to you guys as a couple. You guys have been really good tenants. And I mean, who would you be bringing in? Would it be a friend?" And I was, "I mean that would be great if I could find a friend that needs a place. Otherwise I'd be (inaudible at 00:06:57].6)." 
THERAPIST: Probably a felon.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean like what do you think? You checked my proof of income and (inaudible at 00:07:05].7) references. It was just very—I mean I think part of it is that they haven't ever really dealt –. Like the people that lived in the apartment before us and the people that lived on the first floor before the guy now lived there for a like a really long time. And they were older folks. And the people in my apartment lived there for forty years. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I don't know if they've dealt with their tenant needing to find a roommate. Ever. So maybe they're just like confused? [0:07:30.4]
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: I mean it's like, "I'll call you in a couple of days with how I think you should go about it." But of course then I'm like, "Why I don't just start looking for somebody?" And I'm nervous about the whole roommate situation. A, because you'd have roommates. And B, because—I don't know. It seems that a lot of ads that I've seen so far are younger people. Like twenty-five or younger. Or looking for a house with roommates. 
And so I'm nervous about finding somebody that's good. And that wants a quiet, more mature place. But whatever. I don't know. I'm guess I'm just feeling kind of like discombobulated. Like I'm nervous about the prospect of trying to work things out with Franklin. And if it's possible I guess. [0:08:28.3]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: So yeah. I don't know. I guess that's kind of like where I stand. Franklin and I have been talking a lot. And he keeps saying—every time I say I'm confused or whatever he's like, "I don't know what to tell you besides what you already know from me. Literally all I want to do is dedicate my time to bettering myself so that I can be better for you. So that we can be better. So that I (inaudible at 00:08:59].8) and I'm taking care of the things that I need to take care of. And making an effort to spend more time with friends." And blah, blah, blah. 
I guess he's been blocking a bunch of people from his phone and Facebook that I told him had made me uncomfortable that he's talked to. And I mean like for me it's all gestures at the moment. Like it's all okay that's very nice. How long is it going to last before you get lonely and start talking to some girl? I don't know. I just don't know. [0:09:30.3]
And so yeah. It's a little bit confusing I guess. I'd like to imagine a future with him still that we've planned for and whatever. I mean I do feel that it's important for that, for our relationship, that I'm being serious about needing to have a time of separation. And spending more time apart. And living on our own. And all of that. I feel really strongly about that. And I think it's the right choice. I guess I'm just feeling torn about how it's going to—or like thinking about how it's going to go. Like how is it going to work? How is it going to unfold? How is Franklin really going to feel once he's on his own? And how am I really going to feel once I'm on my own? And all of that good stuff. [0:10:32.4] (pause till [00:10:55].3)
Like what if it doesn't work out? Or like what if I—I don't know. There are too many what ifs for me I think. (pause at 00:11:05].2 to [00:11:16].9) And I feel mean thinking this even. What if he wants to spend more time with me than I want to spend with him during this time? 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Or whatever. I've just never had to deal with this. Like A, this long of a relationship and B, this kind of thing happening. I've just never dealt with it. So it's all new territory. [0:11:50.4]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:11:51].3 to [00:12:13].4) 
CLIENT: I guess at the very least I feel like by making this drastic change it will reduce the chances of falling back into old patterns. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Um—I don't know. Again I'm just not sure how it's going to work. How it's going to unfold. (inaudible at 00:12:51].6) I don't have to worry now. Just let it like run its course. [0:13:01.1] (pause till [00:13:51].9) I guess conflicted is the right word. 
THERAPIST: My impression is that you kind of would like sort of a road map from me. Okay, look Trina, here's how the first week is going to go. [0:14:10.6]
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: Here's what you do. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: Here's what's going to happen the second week. And here's how you should handle that. And this is what you should expect and watch out for. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: And then week three in the beginning it's going to—(inaudible at 00:14:23].1). 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: But something like that. And I have the impression some of your focus on that is to do with wanting to look away from how sad it all feels. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: And I have the impression there is something about feeling sad about it here that's difficult. And I'm not sure what. Whether there is kind of a vulnerability that goes along with it or something else that's uncomfortable. [0:15:18.0]
CLIENT: I think I'm like—I don't want to be sad about it anywhere. But I am. I'm not myself at work. I don't want to socialize really. I don't want to—like my sister Mindy came in yesterday and talked my ear off for twenty minutes about this sorority weekend thing she just came back from. Because she's like a member to this chapter or whatever. I don't know anything about those places. But just like talking for twenty minutes. And I really wanted to be like, "I don't care. Like please get out of my house." 
And so I guess it's not necessarily here. It's just in general. And like not really knowing when I'm going to feel better. And I think part of it right now also is Franklin is feeling really hopeful and really positive about it. And feeling like, "I wish none of this was happening and I wish had behaved differently the whole time. And all this stuff. But it's happening so I'm trying to look at it positive. And take this chance to really show you how much I love you and how much I want you to be with me for the rest of your life. Our lives." [0:16:33.0]
And me feeling just still pessimistic and nervous because of what I've dealt with. So I guess that's like I feel sad about that too. Like I wish I could match his hopeful outlook on our relationship. But all I can think of is, "Okay even if you're talking about all this stuff and whatever. And talking to me and working on all this stuff. And doing stuff and saving money. And doing your school stuff. And all this whatever that I've wanted you do to for a long time. And (inaudible at 00:17:15].3)." Like I could still see all that and still be distrustful of things that might be going on or things that he might be saying to people. Or who he's talking to or whatever. And I'm nervous that the fact that he wants to work it out so much—I don't know. I'm just nervous about what if it doesn't. [0:17:39.8]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Like—which I guess is you know I have to wait and see. I don't know. Like I got really mad at my mom on the phone the other day. I was screaming at her because—I don't know. I felt irritated. She—I've been texting you. She's just been texting to check in and all that. (inaudible at 00:18:19].4) this weekend and everything. And I'm talking to her the other day and she's like—I don't know. I know it's just because she's worried about me (inaudible at 00:18:28].5) but she's just kind of like, (speaking slowly, no emotion) "How are you?" And I got really angry at her. Because I was just like, "Talk normally to me." And I guess I got a little angry that—I don't know. [0:18:45.4]
THERAPIST: Sorry how was she?
CLIENT: Just kind of like (speaking slowly, no emotion), "Oh how are you?" 
THERAPIST: Just pitying or really sort of like you were three or? Like you were a total wreck? 
CLIENT: Yeah like I was a total wreck. And exactly. And so I was kind of like, "Mom I am feeling sad about this like literally every single day but it's like I'm not wallowing and crying every hour. I wish you'd talk to me normally." And then I think I also got angry because I felt like she—I don't know. I feel like part of her is like, "Good riddance." Maybe. And so I started yelling at her about Franklin really wants to try. And we might work it out. And what if we work it out and then you're just thinking that this is—(inaudible). [0:19:38.7]
The reason that I got mad is because it felt like she's treating this like a huge break up that we're not going to be talking anymore. And things are really difficult at home. And we don't even want to talk at home. And we're not—and we're only crying. I don't know. I guess I felt angry at that. Which I apologized later because whatever. It's done. It's like my reading of how she is thinking and I don't necessarily know. But I felt that way about it. And I mean all of my friends have been supportive—well except for a couple super cynical ones. 
But most of my friends that I've talked to have been supportive of the fact that like, "Yes I think you're making the right choice in having him move out because you don't want to revert back to old patterns. And kind of make him see like okay, fine. And then maybe he's not going to be as dedicated to changing. And figuring out why he needed them to begin with. And if you can work it out great but I think you need this time to whatever. And live your life." And duh, duh, duh. [0:20:48.8]
And I'm supportive of that idea too. I'm just not—I don't know. I just don't feel good about anything. (chuckles) Like everything is just kind of (inaudible at 00:21:07].8) I guess. Because I want to feel hopeful but I'm not feeling that hopeful right now I guess. That's a major problem. And kind of how do I feel about it and how do I reconcile that with what's actually going on? (inaudible at 00:21:30].5) (pause till [00:22:29].6)
THERAPIST: You may be a bit in denial about what's happened. [0:22:39.1]
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well (pause at 00:22:43].0 to [00:23:05].5) you wish you had a more positive attitude about things. You're mad at your mom for addressing the part of you—or whatever she was doing, however it felt—for addressing the part of you that feels like a wreck over this. And I think things feel pretty amicable with Franklin right now. [0:23:45.7]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And (pause at 00:23:49].5 to [00:23:59].7) I'm not saying they should be acrimonious. I'm not saying you should be miserable 24/7 and wallowing every minute. And I'm not saying you should have a crummy, pessimistic attitude about all of this. But I do think you may be kind of in denial or really keeping at arm's length your feelings about what's happened. In that (pause at 00:24:35].1 to [00:24:55].0) he really—in a kind of consistent, ongoing, not impulsive but more kind of planful or calculated way—betrayed your trust in him. [0:25:11.6]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Right. 
THERAPIST: And I guess it seems to me you're—I'm not saying you forgot about that. But that you're not really wanting to remember what that felt like. And some of what it meant to you. 
CLIENT: Well—right. I mean I definitely am—every time that I think about it and think about what was said and what I saw and what I didn't see like I just start to feel really depressed. And sad about it. And I mean while I don't necessarily think that I'm—I mean I'm certainly not forgetting about it. [0:26:22.9]
But I—yeah I am trying to focus on the stuff that could be a positive outcome instead of focusing on that as much because I don't want to dwell on it. I mean I know what happened. I mean I know how it felt. I know how I feel about it. I know that I don't feel confident it won't happen again if we get back together or whatever. So but I'm not sure how that—I guess it's just making me kind of feel like I don't know how act or something. 
I don't know how—I don't know. I mean I don't know how to process it I guess. I mean I processed it by telling him that we need to have a separation. He needs to move out. But I guess I don't know how to think about it in light of all these things that he's saying that he's realized because of this. [0:27:40.8] (pause till [00:27:56].6) 
I mean another part of it I guess also is—I don't know. I just think to I guess wait and see how things start feeling to me. 
THERAPIST: I guess it's not the same but it starts to seem a bit reminiscent of what happened before you found out. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: Where you'd find out something or you'd worry about something. And he would kind of talk you out of it. Because you didn't want to believe it or think about it that way either. [0:28:38.8]
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: And I guess that's part of why I'm bringing it up because this seems similar. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean that is the sense—I don't think –. He's certainly not trying to talk me out of the seriousness of this. And he understands it. And keeps saying, "I would do anything to take back hurting you. And I feel so horrible." And blah, blah, blah. But I guess similar in the sense that he [keeps promising me] a lot of things. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. What's at stake this time is the future and not the past in a way. 
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. Yeah I just don't know how that looks right now. (pause at 00:29:41].4 to [00:29:55].7) I'm like he keeps saying, "I know you don't trust anything that I'm telling you right now. And you can't really believe anything that I'm telling you so it's my job to be able to show you." I'm like, "Okay. Thanks for stating the obvious." (chuckles) [0:30:06.8]
I guess. And I mean that's very nice but I don't really know what that means to me right now. (pause at 00:30:16].1 to [00:30:54].3) (sighs) And we're leaving on Friday morning. And I'll be gone until the following Sunday. And I mean that—I guess I feel a certain relief in being able to get away. And he's home like whatever. Doing whatever it is he does and wants to do. And obviously I'm going to call him and check in and whatever. But I think it's going to be a first step –. [0:31:28.0]
THERAPIST: You seem to be—I guess that's as sometimes before –. Maybe I'm misreading you on this. But to me it looked like you're kind of looking for my response a little bit there. Like you're sort of giving me the part of it where it's like, "Nope, Trina you will not talk to him. And you will not –." I mean I'm (inaudible at 00:32:00].7). 
CLIENT: I know I—well because you know. Well I think that the response to feeling like my mother's going to be like, "Why are you calling Franklin?" Or something. 
THERAPIST: Maybe both are a response to your own [ambivalence]. 
CLIENT: Yeah I mean I'm ambivalent about the whole thing. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Like the whole situation. 
THERAPIST: Sure. 
CLIENT: But it's happening. He's going to move out. I mean it's not—this is not like we're just going to work it out and everything is fine and whatever. I felt like this will—I don't know. I just don't even want to think about it. But I don't want anybody's response anymore to anything. It's not even like—or even opinion. [0:33:09.4]
I mean I think it's just my own—I'm bouncing it off myself. Like angel and devil kind of situation in terms of—don't believe him. It's not going to work out. Or you know. And yeah. I mean I just don't really know which one to trust. Like which feelings. (pause at 00:33:42].1 to [00:33:58].0) I think maybe also it's like a little bit like okay, you're going to be my angel. (inaudible at 00:34:01].7) going to therapy. Blah, blah, blah. (inaudible at 00:34:03].5) And so but where does that leave me? I guess is kind of how I feel about it. [0:34:08.2]
THERAPIST: Mm. (pause at 00:34:12].2 to [00:34:31].7) 
CLIENT: And part of me just wants to just like crawl under the bed and not deal with any of this. Like I'm having a really hard time doing work. Like being at work. Doing work. Concentrating. So then I've got to push myself to concentrate on my work and blah, blah, blah. But it's really hard. I mean I think that the vacation will be good because I can be away. I can be away from work. Be away from the house. Be away from Franklin. Be away from my friends even. I mean just be away. (sighs) So I'm looking forward to that and hopefully it'll—I don't know. [0:35:39.1]
Hopefully I'll start to feel a little better or not feel as sad. Or feel more confident in the whole situation. (pause at 00:35:47].8 to [00:36:06].6) Again I'm just not—I haven't processed how I feel about everything totally I guess. And so I'm just trying to deal with stuff as it comes and be positive or sad or whatever I'm feeling at the moment. I mean like yes things are (inaudible at 00:36:34].6) good in the house and we're getting along very well. [0:36:36.8]
But it's like this—I mean like dealing with the move. And finding a roommate and all that stuff. I'm not sure when I'm going to start to feel like settled in this process. And maybe I won't for a little while. And it'll take awhile and whatever. But I'm just feeling all over the place and scattered right now. So maybe that's the main thing that's bothering me. 
I mean it's really great that Franklin has been looking and even if it is (inaudible at 00:37:22].3) August 1st, fine. What's the difference? You know? I mean I need to find somebody but with the place that he found so cheap then at the very least he can help me until I do find somebody. [0:37:32.9] (sighs) (pause till [00:37:45].6) 
It's just amazing that he's saying to me when he's looking into my eyes and telling me he loves me and all this stuff—like I believe all that's true but that doesn't make what he did any less real and present for me. (pause at 00:38:00].9 to [00:38:29].2)
THERAPIST: Is that the denial right there when you say, "(inaudible at 00:38:35].3) eyes and tells me he loves me. And it doesn't make any less real what he did." I bet in the moment it does. [0:38:42.6]
CLIENT: A little bit. 
THERAPIST: I know it doesn't in some objective sense. (inaudible at 00:38:53].5)
CLIENT: No, but in the sense that somebody that loves me this much wouldn't do something like that. In that kind of way. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: You know? Somebody that is telling me all this stuff and whatever wouldn't—I guess—do that again? I mean so not necessarily denial that it happened. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But I guess denial about being sure that it wouldn't happen again. Because it's not like he wasn't telling me he loves me the whole time that we were in a relationship. So yeah I guess. I guess yeah in that sense. A little bit. I mean I don't want to keep reminding him because he knows. I'm not interested in making sure he knows and feels bad about it. Because I believe that he does feel bad about it. And that he realizes how big he fucked up and all that. I just –. [0:40:13.6] (pause till [00:40:23].3) 
I don't know. I really have to just—I think there is an issue that I'm having also with like–. Again when does that—I don't want to pressure myself. Like have that moment of "I trust you." And like I'm nervous that I won't feel that way. (pause at 00:40:55].8 to [00:41:07].8) But I'm also just like annoyed at feeling (inaudible at 00:41:17].5) stupid. Like I'm annoyed at feeling sad about it still. I just—because it's really bothering me that I'm having such a hard time doing my work and that I have short fuse. [0:41:32.5]
And it's hard for me to socialize with people right now. I was already having a hard enough time about controlling my thoughts when I was like—because I was so busy thinking about, "Oh how do I approach him about this?" And all this other stuff that I was bothered by. And that was—so I was already dealing with that. Okay he was dealing with his own shit but he was dealing with it in a way that was very different than me. And I don't know. I just don't want to feel this way anymore. I just wish I could get over it. Or just like not feel—I really don't –. 
And I keep trying at work to be like, "Okay. I'm just going to dig into my work." And duh, duh, duh. And I'm irritated by the e-mails. I don't want to respond to you right now because your e-mail is fucking annoying. No I don't want (inaudible at 00:42:31].1). And I don't feel like myself. You know I'm going to go away and then I'm going to come back and however I feel or don't feel that's crunch time. It's going to be August. We're going to be starting the semester in a month. I'm going to have a ton of shit to do. [0:42:55.4]
And I feel like I'm weeks behind already. I don't think I necessarily am but (inaudible at 00:43:03].2) right now. I don't even know how I'm going to just start on stuff. And for the first couple of days I didn't have an appetite. And then now I want to eat to comfort myself. And neither was good. I don't want to not eat but I don't want to eat for comfort. But like I'm having a hard time dealing with it in other ways. [0:43:32.6]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Well we should stop for now. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm so I guess—do you have an appointment for after I get back yet? [0:43:52.8] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
