Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I had a terrible time getting moving this morning and then when I finally did and there was a tree under the underpass right before it turns (inaudible) and narrowed it down to one lane and no one letting people merge, yeah, drivers at their finest. So, I'm sorry I'm late. What's going on?
I'm pretty full of self hate this week. (pause) I made a big push to finish those wedding invitations Friday and Saturday. I was packing them up...well Saturday Dave came with me to be an extra set of hands in the shop. Not that he is trained or qualified to operate the press but he could carry galley trays to the shelving so I didn't have to stop every ten cards to move the tray. [00:01:03]
But yeah, I just kept running into one difficulty after another and there were letters that were misprinting and the printer, the drive belt popped off, so I had to repair that so I didn't get them to the post office by two - which is when the post office closes on Saturday - like I hoped. And it took me all day. I finally finished Saturday around ten and was packaging them up so I could take them to the post office first thing Monday morning and I realized that every single one of the last batch that I printed was offset pretty badly. So the top half of the text was square and centered and the bottom half of the text was not square, it was at an angle and was off center. And Dave told me that no one would notice and that he didn't notice and he couldn't even see what I was talking about but it was glaringly obvious to me. And Dave is not the most observant creature known to man (chuckle) so it's possible that he was just being oblivious but I feel really terrible but the wedding is in two months and I needed to get them out and there was no time to redo them, especially because I [almost out] (ph) of paper and the paper shop is only open Monday thru Friday. [00:02:19]
So I mailed them Monday express and my friend hasn't said anything else and the delivery confirmation says they arrived at her house yesterday so (pause) I don't know. I'm kind of beating myself up and I'm convinced she's furious at me for fucking up her wedding invitations and feeling pretty terrible about that.
And then also yesterday I was driving to a place. It's a tailor that a friend of mine uses and came highly recommended. I'm having a suit made for the convention, for the formal banquet and so I was driving out for the fitting and...
THERAPIST: When is the convention by the way? [00:03:19]
CLIENT: It is in a few weekends.
THERAPIST: In May?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay, are we on as usual? I don't know how long it runs or what the...
CLIENT: Actually we are not starting with whatever that Thursday is. I think the Thursday is the 24th?
THERAPIST: Do you want to check or should I take this...?
CLIENT: Yeah go ahead and check the calendar. But after the convention Dave and I are going to vacation for three weeks.
THERAPIST: Oh you are going to go?
CLIENT: Yeah. And then the job will start so we'll need to find a new time.
THERAPIST: Right. Alright so we're not meeting on Thursday the 24th of May?
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:04:10]
CLIENT: And then I'll be gone until late June.
THERAPIST: Okay, so we're not meeting the 24th. You'll be gone (pause) returning the end of June. Okay. And when does your job start?
CLIENT: The last Monday of June.
THERAPIST: Okay. So (pause) let's see. I'm just going to make a note that you return on the 21st. Your job starts that Monday. Okay so we would just have potentially Thursday at our regular time. And then you'd said those (pause) appointment times, I think you said 4:30 or later?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:05:25]
THERAPIST: Or is morning possible or should we shoot for after...?
CLIENT: I'm bad at mornings but if you don't have afternoons I can try.
THERAPIST: Alright. It's likely I'll have 4:30 opening up on Thursday. That would be one possibility. Also possible Friday at 4:30 will open up. (pause) Let's see. I mean I have a few things basically shifting around as the academic year comes to a close.
CLIENT: Like 5:15 would be better, easier than 4:30, but I could do 4:30.
THERAPIST: Alright, I'm quite sure that I will have some 5:15 times opening up by the end of August. I'm seeing somebody who is moving and I'll have, I'm pretty sure, a couple of those opening up by then which I will hang on to. (pause) So, let's see. Would it be okay to let you know — which I guess I might need to do while you're away — by e-mail or something? [00:07:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, all of this should be pretty clear to me by the time you get back I think. And also, you know, if it certainly is urgent or if it's important I do Skype or phone appointments and things like that. I hope everything is just awesome while you're away but (chuckle) but if it would be helpful to talk, I'd be happy to. Generally insurance doesn't cover Skype or phone appointments. That's the line I've gotten from them. It's possible — because there seems to be some other features that are a little different at your insurance — you could check it out but that's at least of like six or nine months ago when I had heard from them. Although I am happy to try and take those which would help but it does cost that way. But anyway, just letting you know.
(silence from [00:08:14] to 00:08:27)
That also means I guess we have a couple of weeks before you head out.
CLIENT: Yep. So yeah I was at this fitting and well A) I never bothered to replace my real GPS when it blue screen of deathed on me and I could not resurrect it. I've been using my Delta and cell phone GPS. But it was raining yesterday and cloudy and my cell phone GPS kept falling out so I kept getting lost and missing turns and one point I was trying to turn around in this parking lot and I was super stressed because I was running late and it was raining and I backed into a truck, like an 18-wheeler tractor trailer and broke my tail light which I feel utterly terrible about. So the refrain in my head is "stupid, inconsiderate, you don't pay attention, you're so flaky, this is going to cost money and you're already spending lots of money to go to your sister's graduation" which Dave is pissed about even though if he had just booked the tickets three months ago when my sister invited us to graduation when I told him to and he kept saying, "No, no, no. I'm not sure. Let's wait another week." And now tickets are 500 bucks a piece where probably in March it would have been $250 a piece but he's blaming my sister for that and he's pissed about it and that's totally unfair. [00:09:53]
So then I finally got to the tailor's studio and we did the fitting and I was just, I don't know. I tried not to think about being fat that much because there's not a whole lot I can do about it that I was (sigh) completely repulsed by my body and that's not pleasant, especially since I'm having this suit custom tailored to avoid the trauma of trying to find something that fits off the rack. So yeah, it's all just a mess. And the girl I was dating who moved to Philadelphia is in town this week and she had e-mailed me...
THERAPIST: Jenny?
CLIENT: Jenny.
THERAPIST: Jenny.
CLIENT: And she e-mailed me last week to say let's get together and we tentatively planned on dinner tonight and she hasn't responded to my e-mails asking her to confirm and it's just...I don't know. I'm blaming myself for everything even things that are clearly outside of my control and it's not...I don't know. I'm very angry at myself.
(silence from [00:11:09] to 00:11:50)
THERAPIST: You started out by saying it seems more so than usual. I mean, in other words, (pause) did it seem like about what you'd expect for these sort of things happening or did it just seem like there's something different going on?
CLIENT: (pause) I wouldn't say it's about what I expect but it's not at all unusual or without precedent, if that makes sense. I felt this way a lot while I was still working on my degree. Things had been slightly better for a while but you know, that's (pause)...I've always been cyclic to some regard in terms of how I feel about myself. Not in terms of a regular cycle but more like there are ebbs and flows of feeling terrible and hating myself.
(silence from [00:12:56] to 00:13:18)
I also feel like I've had a very busy week this past week. Sunday was the antiracism discussion group with my church. We met for dinner and I was meeting some friends who were coming in from out of town earlier Sunday afternoon for coffee and to hang out. Lori is in grad school and she has final papers due this week so she mostly worked on her paper and chatted about her paper mostly. But that was okay.
And then I raced home and cooked food because I had been assigned to bring a main dish and that was fairly stressful and I kind of resented it because I also am one of the leaders of the group even though I originally said I didn't want to be in a leadership position but they pegged me as the lay chaplain and I couldn't bring myself to say no so I was already doing preparation work and I thought it was really absurd that I was also asked to cook a main dish whereas people who have contributed negatively to the well-being of the group as far as I'm concerned were assigned to bring like a two-liter of soda. The least they could do is bring some food, right? [00:14:39]
There's this one woman who was like, "Well black people act one way and white people act another way and that's just obsessive compulsive disorder that all of them have." Like seriously, you said that?!
THERAPIST: Oh my God, yeah!
CLIENT: And then another white woman — both of these are white women — another white woman said...at the very beginning the leadership had decided we are going to split into white people and people of color and take 20 minutes to talk about our own stuff in our own groups and when we came back this woman was like, "Well I think it was really unfair that we had to split into groups." And I feel totally attacked because never in my life have I been required to be so perfectly correct and mistakes not tolerated. This is the same woman who, at our previous meeting, had went on and on and on for 15 minutes dominated a discussion about how she does vocational training for black single mothers downtown and she just went on this rant about how these black women don't want to be friends with her and that's so unfair because she's trying so hard and can't they see how much work she's doing trying to better their lives? And I was like this is so disgusting. Just... (pause) [00:16:02]
And of course our priest (chuckle) took an opportunity, we were talking about...we were discussing an article on black irony and the ways which black comedians reclaim negative stereotypical images in comedy routines. It was a pretty fruitful discussion and then Julia busted in with this long digression.
THERAPIST: That's the priest?
CLIENT: Yeah, about some book she read about inner-city children in Bombay and how terrible life is for them and how she felt so horrible and it made her cry and she couldn't bring herself to eat dinner. I was like this is so typical for her! Last year when there was that rash of gay suicides that made the news, I don't know if you remember that, but there were like...
THERAPIST: Only vaguely, yeah.
CLIENT: ...six or seven gay teenagers who killed themselves in various places around the country all within a three week span. It was all over the news and so Julia preached about that because we have a bunch of gay people in our community, especially gay teens, some of whom are still closeted or are only out to certain trusted few. So she preached about this which I thought was a great idea but then she turned the whole thing into how when her brother, before he came out, he was really suicidal and she was so worried about him and it was so terrible for her living with fear for her brother's life. And oh she still hasn't gotten over the trauma. It isn't about you for God sake!! [00:17:42]
So she's...I don't know. She's... (sigh) I don't want to throw around terms like narcissist because that actually has a meaning, a professional meaning. She's so self absorbed and she turns everything into a discussion about her and her hurt feelings. It's just so...oh my God! (sigh)
(pause) I'm so frustrated by this group and I want to quit but I feel like (sigh) A - Julia has made me a figure head and I fear that if I quit she'll take that as an excuse to disband the group and B - there actually are some people who I think are educable in the group and I don't want to leave them to the tender mercies of Julia and voc-ed lady and the obsessive compulsive lady. (sigh) And C - I don't... (pause) the people of color in the group are already starting to get outnumbered as people move away, graduate, drop out of the group and I don't know, I don't want to contribute to the potential that we'll get below critical mass of people of color who actually understand how (chuckle) race works and have read their Angela Davis and are not willing to put up with bullshit. [00:19:29]
Yeah, there's this... (pause) yeah. The dynamics are really complicated but there are a bunch of older people of color in the group and not very many young people of color and... (sigh)
THERAPIST: What is older and younger?
CLIENT: Like in their 50s and 60s versus 20s and 30s.
THERAPIST: Okay got ya.
CLIENT: And I kind of feel like for some of the older people, especially the ones who have been in this congregation for 30 or 40 years, they're much less willing to say out loud, in front of the white people, "That is some bullshit you just said." Whereas I have always been something of a [firecracker] (ph) and have also never been terribly concerned about potentially burning bridges. I don't know. I have been told that I will become more concerned about that as I get older but then people have been saying that to me since I was ten. (laughter) [00:20:32]
THERAPIST: Hasn't happened yet. (laughter)
CLIENT: A little bit but not to any great degree. Yeah, I just don't have patience for that kind of bullshit. And I don't know, maybe part of it is that when I was growing up we moved every two years so there were no consequences to burning bridges because I was always going to get a fresh start. And occasionally on a middle (ph) level I'm a little worried because Dave and I are pretty committed to staying in the area for the foreseeable future. His job is pretty stable. I'm assuming my job will be pretty stable and we've been here for ten years. At this point it would be hard to consider moving somewhere else. I don't get that "I'll get to meet all new people every two years." (chuckle) Sometimes I worry that maybe I shouldn't be so cavalier because this might come back to bite me but that hasn't actually changed my behavior. (chuckle) [00:21:42]
THERAPIST: (pause) I mean, (pause) why would you want to be any different? It sounds like the feeling of standing up for yourself as well as other people in a way that you feel good about.
CLIENT: Yeah I guess mostly... (pause) I have a bunch of friends who are kind of gravitational centers in the social network they have. Huge numbers of friends, their social network is enormous, and they're all charming and funny and always sweet and nice to other people and (pause) I have a lot of friends who are just really, really sweet. Sweet tempered and sweet dispositioned and sometimes I feel a little bad that I can be so abrasive sometimes. And there's definitely a sense of I would have more friends and would have bigger parties and a bigger social network and more opportunities to hang out with awesome people if I were of a different temperament maybe or could at least control what I say more. [00:23:26]
THERAPIST: So it does have a cost for the way you feel? Like it has a cost that way?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you feel it's something you don't have a choice about? In other words that you're just going to stand up and say stuff, like whatever you try to decide in advance. (chuckle)
CLIENT: Well I can bite my tongue, certainly in cases where it would be politically stupid not to, for example in a work setting in a meeting. But it feels really gross to me and I always feel bad about it afterward. (cough)
THERAPIST: You okay?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Gross in what way? [00:24:23]
CLIENT: (pause) I think as an example, from several years ago but it still sticks out in my mind, my group was having a meeting in a conference room. There were like 14 of us; two women in the room. And one guy — our boss's bought us pizza so we have half the meeting, we break to eat pizza, and we're all just kind of like having casual conversation for ten minutes before we pick business back up again. And one guy is talking about how his wife is such a horrible femi-nazi, and I hate that term, hate it so much. And Molly and I had looked at each other across the table and our eyes met and she was making a horrible face. I'm sure I was too but neither of us said anything and I don't know, I wish I had because that's just beyond the pale. [00:25:25]
THERAPIST: (pause) I could imagine a number of reasons why you would have wanted to say something being so disgusted by what he said, but I guess I'm wondering which ones that to your sense are most important. In other words, because you were pissed off at him and wanted to put him in his place? Because if was just terribly offensive and everybody should be aware of how awful it is to say something like that, because (pause) you felt like there's sort of a culture of chauvinism there that you had to speak of? In other words I can generate all sorts of reasons I'm just wondering which ones were most [your main] (ph). [00:26:37]
CLIENT: I think it was mostly a (pause) wanting to register it in everyone's minds that not everyone in the room thought that was an okay thing to say. Like, "You might think that's okay but not everyone does and you need to think about that." I don't know, it was an idealistic little hope of maybe by arguing sufficiently well I could change someone's mind but really just a "that was offensive and I don't want to hear it in my workplace."
(pause) But even about less obviously terrible things, I tend to (pause) just get very emotionally worked up and very passionate about things very easily. I don't know. There have been various times where — I don't know if you've heard of any of the Joe Hardy (inaudible) in the (inaudible) that goes around. It's listing...some psychologist at some university put together a list of 100 adjectives and you pick five that you think describe you and then you give the link to all of your friends and they pick five that they think describe you. And then it puts all 100 adjectives together in a grid so you've got ones that you picked and your friends picked, your friends picked but you didn't, what you picked and your friends didn't, and so on and so forth so you can see. [00:28:26]
And when we do...it's kind of a 'lovemean' that's gone around my friend's group several times and every time I've done it people describe me as intelligent, passionate, fierce, unyielding. No one ever describes me as sweet or loving or kind or...I don't know. Maybe this is a case of grass is always greener because there are certainly...I can imagine plenty of people who wish they could be described as fierce and passionate. Those are positive things but...
THERAPIST: Yeah but it sounds like you want some of the other too. Maybe it makes you feel a little bad about yourself. Having read others it sounds like you, I don't know, have some inclination of wanting to feel more like you can be that way and come across that way or something. [00:29:32]
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, no I don't know how much of it is tied into socialization and sexification that women are supposed to be soft and kind and sweet and that it's somehow wrong for me as a woman to not be kind and sweet. I don't know, it's hard to tease out what's actually an internal feeling versus a response to external pressure and... (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess in the present or the past, in other words, that could be part of you now but... (inaudible) outside or both.
CLIENT: Because I don't think I'm a bad person and I certainly care about my friends and they know I care about them. (pause) I think it's more that how I want people to see me which is...I don't know. I feel like that's messed up. [00:30:34]
THERAPIST: It's messed up for you to want them to see you this other way?
CLIENT: No, it's messed up for me to care more about how they see me than about how I actually am inside.
THERAPIST: (pause) Well else do you think matters to you about your seeing you that way (pause) I mean, before we decide how messed up you are about it? (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) Because then more people would like me.
THERAPIST: (pause) I imagine that's an old feeling, just wanting people to like you like that. [00:31:40]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) I'm not exactly sure what that's about — whether it's about feeling sort of more easily apart of the group in a way? Just sort of more enjoyed by other people? Sort of safer in the group? I don't know. Do you have a sense?
CLIENT: (sigh) (pause) No, I want people to want me around and to miss me when I'm not there which I don't know, that might already be the case. I (chuckle) notoriously don't have perspective on this but (pause) yeah, I don't know. [00:32:57]
THERAPIST: And that just sounds like really wanting to feel cared about.
CLIENT: Yeah. Most people only wanted me around because I was putting on this mask of being sweet and charming, like kind of mimicking some of the styles of interaction of the people who I really like a lot then they don't really want me, they want the mask. Yeah, it's also not a pleasant feeling.
THERAPIST: Could we say really cared about?
CLIENT: (chuckle) (pause) Yeah, I mean, and part of why I said that I think this is so messed up that I care more that people see me as these adjectives is because (pause) I don't know, I wouldn't be where I am today if it weren't for how passionate I get about things. And in part that's because my parents cultivated that. They did a lot of things wrong but one of the things they did right was told me not to take crap from anyone, to stand up for myself, which I then translated into standing up for myself and anyone I cared about which drives my parents crazy. (chuckle) [00:34:54]
But no, they would take me to parent/teacher meetings where they would go to bat for me with teachers. There was one teacher I had in kindergarten who wanted to put me in a remedial "learning to read" class and wanted to hold me back a year because I absolutely refused to do the stupid exercises she gave us. And I was reading at several years above my age at that point. And so my parents — I was five — they brought me to the parent/teacher meeting where my father actually called that teacher an idiot to her face in front of me. (laughter) But you know, like...
THERAPIST: (laughter) Yeah, but you really thought he was standing up for you at the same time.
CLIENT: And you know, I wouldn't, (pause) especially when I was at the Catholic school up to sixth grade in Alabama and then at the public school I went to for seventh and eighth grade, if I didn't have that, you know I wouldn't...for those four years it was a fight to be allowed to pursue math and science. Teachers actively tried to discourage me from that and I fought them on it. [00:36:21]
I have all kinds of mixed feelings about would I have wanted to become a scientist if my parents hadn't pushed me from a young age. They gave me my first chemistry set when I was a toddler for God sake. But as much as I have that angst there's the fact that teachers who have much less right to influence me than my parents would have completely turned me from that path if I didn't have that strong sense of passion in demanding what I think is right. And I wouldn't want to trade that for being sweet and kind to come naturally to me — which it doesn't. It's something I have to actively work on and I wouldn't trade that which is why (chuckle) I'm just a little messed up. I'm like well I wish people didn't see this part of me but I think it's so valuable and like a core part of my identity.
THERAPIST: Yeah. We can stop for now. We'll talk more tomorrow?
CLIENT: Yep. [00:37:25]
END TRANSCRIPT
