TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Today is February 15th. This is Carrie's seventh session with Tyler.
PATIENT: Sometimes I don't know where to begin. I wasn't going to come today. 
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: I want to go home. Has that ever happened to you that you feel that way? Like I don't want to be here anymore and it scares me. And I feel like I'm a big failure and I just want to leave the whole thing. 
COUNSELOR: You're not making sense. Why are you miserable?
PATIENT: I guess it's just yesterday, my sister left me, after she called and she had just broken up with her boyfriend and that really depressed me. And I'm just sort of depressed about a lot of things. Saturday night, you know, I just got depressed seeing a lot of people and stuff. 
COUNSELOR: That was a very - I can understand that. 
PATIENT: And I just don't. 
1:33
COUNSELOR: What was that like for you to go there, where are you at? Why don't you just cry?
PATIENT: I don't want to, I'll just cry the whole time. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, and like when did you start feeling this way?
PATIENT: What? Like depressed about Saturday night?
COUNSELOR: Was it Saturday night when this all started?
PATIENT: No, it was at one point when I was in that room where I saw you dancing. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Well, before that they had this Miss. USC contest and there was this one guy who just kept on walking around and he was - he wouldn't sit down and (inaudible 2:17) I don't know if you saw the Pledge Allegiance to the Flag or something? 
COUNSELOR: No, I didn't see it. 
PATIENT: Well, he pissed in a cup and then he was (inaudible 2:23) and trying to give it to people. Then when they had Miss. USC he wouldn't sit down and it just drove me crazy like he was - I just wanted to scream, "Why don't you go home and make it..." I just couldn't stand it. And I guess I'm....
COUNSELOR: I have some problems with my feelings too. 
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. I mean you are just bombarded by textbook (inaudible 2:47) just bombarded and that is just not where you are at right now. 
PATIENT: Yeah but I just thought it was all perverted and everything was sort of sick. Like it had to be grotesque in order for them to handle it, like they couldn't handle something serious; I don't know. 
3:07
COUNSELOR: That is a strange event you went to, by the way. 
PATIENT: But that is the only damn thing they have got here which is so ironic. We were talking about that later on that night that is like the big thing for USC. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm not surprised that you are upset by that. I had trouble (inaudible 3.27). Okay; and I think most people do. 
PATIENT: And I just feel like I can't take it any more. I can't go on student teaching; I'm scared to death of those kids. I feel like I can never do anything right with anyone. I'm just a big failure. And I can't stand it and I'd rather go home and hide under my bed then keep on having these feelings. And I...
COUNSELOR: Things are really tough? 
PATIENT: Well, nothing ever turns out right it seems for me or anyone I really care about. You know? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're really down. 
PATIENT: I couldn't sleep. And so then Sunday I just was so drugged out so I went to bed because I couldn't handle facing the world. Then I don't want to see anybody, I just really don't want to see anybody I just want to hide in my room. Yet I don't want to be alone in my room. I don't know; I'm just kind of panicked about everything. Sometimes I get this way and I just can't handle it. And then I feel like I have no right to tell anyone about it. I don't know; I just sort of get paralyzed. This happened last quarter too. I get this way when things start getting piled on and stuff like that and I just get really panicked. No matter what I do I feel like I could've done it better. I'm never satisfied with anything I do and I just feel like everything is, all my fault. 
5:22
COUNSELOR: I don't know. My head is swimming in all the terrible stuff and how terrible you are. Now what I want to hear you say is something more specific; like I am having a hard time grabbing a hold of it.
PATIENT: About why I am so terrible?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, why are you so terrible? Give me a specific thing where you really fucked it up. 
PATIENT: I guess I feel terrible that I can't, I just can't seem to handle situations and most people can put them in the right perspective. 
COUNSELOR: Like for example? What do you do; give me a more specific. 
PATIENT: Well, just student teaching is one thing. Like other people, I'm sure, have it just as bad or stuff like that, but everyone else seems to be handling it. But I feel like I can't tell them that I am not handling it and I have to put up this fa�ade that I can do it and I don't know what the hell I am doing. I don't feel it is worth while. You know, everyone else seemed to go to that hideous bar and come out all right but it has to blow my mind the next day. 
COUNSELOR: A lot of minds are blown by that; let me tell you; okay. As a matter of fact the woman I went with last year had her mind blown out by that. She did the same thing you were doing. So that is a bad example. I mean everybody, by what you are saying, everyone seemed to walk around all cool and handle this thing and you were the only one that had all those feelings and you had a hard time hanging on to but I saw examples of it all over the place. I'm reassuring you now, okay. 
PATIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: That was hard, very, very hard for you there. And you probably were caught by surprise too, somewhat. I mean I didn't know, even I went last year and I didn't have any sense, but they really did it this year. They really grossed everybody out this year, I think. 
PATIENT: So, like I wasn't grossed out I was just like, "Oh my God."
COUNSELOR: Oh my god what?
PATIENT: Well, everything seemed so meaningless. Everyone was sort of grabbing, kissing, I don't know. I feel like I'm just one big open sore and I keep on getting hurt all the time. 
8:14
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you are. 
PATIENT: And no one cares and yet everyone else has just as many problems as I do, I guess. And like there is no place I can go really. But I don't want to be here, I just really don't want to be here because it hurts too much; I'm just really hurt. And I didn't want to come today or I just don't want to talk to anyone because I don't' want anyone to see me hurt sort of. I find that hard having people see me that way. 
COUNSELOR: Well, you did an interesting thing today. I watched you downstairs and I watched you walk through the hall and you looked miserable until you came into this office. So why are you smiling? Huh? Why are you smiling at me? I know you don't feel that way. 
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Well why smile at me?
PATIENT: I don't know, maybe because I like you. 
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm afraid what that does is it pushes away from where you are at and what we need to do is get to it instead of pushing it away. I don't' know if that is true by the way but that is just a guess. I want you to get some of that miserable stuff out in here with me. I don't think you are miserable but you do so maybe we can get rid of some of it. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I'm going to like you no matter what you do with me, by the way. I mean, I like you intrinsically, not -  I'm very glad about that because when I don't, I have trouble being the therapist. 
PATIENT: Oh, I don't know. How do you - there is so much.
COUNSELOR: What specific -  talk more about your feelings like Saturday or now or whatever. You're helpless not hopeless the "what's the use" thing. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You might as well just cry, right. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I would really like to. I don't know it's just like, you know, everything was just sort of a big crowd and there were so many things going on around me. 
11:10
COUNSELOR: Well, latch onto one of those things and tell me about it. 
PATIENT: Well, I feel like I can't really tell anyone how I really feel because no one really cares. 
COUNSELOR: I care. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but that's, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Well, who doesn't care, who were you with Saturday? 
PATIENT: About 12 different people. 
COUNSELOR: And how did that work out?
PATIENT: I couldn't see who I was really with it was just people to dance with and stuff like that. 
COUNSELOR: When I saw you, you looked that way somehow. By the way, I liked your black-and-white dress and your pink beads. 
PATIENT: I'm glad you like it but I lost them. 
COUNSELOR: And I liked the way you danced too, by the way. 
PATIENT: I really like to dance. 
COUNSELOR: You are very good, you're very good. 
PATIENT: I needed to dance too. 
COUNSELOR: You are very good. 
PATIENT: I didn't like seeing you there, you know. I saw you there before. 
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I was going to leave. 
COUNSELOR: Why? Why didn't you like me there?
PATIENT: I was angry at you I think for being there.
COUNSELOR: Checking up on you?
PATIENT: No, I didn't mean it that way. I was, yeah, I felt that way. 
COUNSELOR: Felt like what; tell me?
PATIENT: I don't know like it was - I didn't want to see you outside of here. 
13:07
COUNSELOR: Let me tell you how I felt when I saw you. I had a lot of counter transfer problems. I have a lot of problems like that in general like I was sexually stimulated beyond what I would like to be in a public situation. I have a lot trouble with that. Like the thing was so unreal for me in some way. It was a hard thing being in contact, I mean I can of course but like, I didn't want to and I wanted to, it didn't seem like, or it seemed a little like Juliet of the Spirits, didn't it?
PATIENT: Yeah, like a (inaudible 13:51)
COUNSELOR: It was! That's only because it was; and that is not so easy. And then when I saw you I had the same feeling. Well, I didn't expect to see you. And then when I did I had such strong sexual feelings. In other words it was like hard for me to deal with that, like in some way you were intruding into my space. 
PATIENT: You were intruding on mine. 
COUNSELOR: You were like a polished apple that was just within reach. It was hard for me. 
PATIENT: I didn't like seeing you there with a woman. 
COUNSELOR: You were jealous? 
PATIENT: Yeah, I was jealous. I was jealous. I didn't like seeing you there either. Like you should go and have your own personal life but make sure I don't see it. I think that's what I really felt. 
COUNSELOR: But that just shows something about you doesn't it? I don't know. Like (inaudible 14:58) I gather that has some personal meaning for you but for you to see my personal life like that out in front. 
PATIENT: I guess it like, I know you've got one but I don't' want to know about it, like I want to deny that you have one. 
COUNSELOR: Because? Talk more about-I don't know. But what you are saying is - I might have felt the same way except that you weren't into whoever you were dancing with. You never looked at your partner. So I didn't have to be jealous. I watched you a few times and - I watched you for quite a while actually. I figured well I don't' have to be jealous of him. Were you avoiding me, by the way?
16:04
PATIENT: When?
COUNSELOR: Saturday, like you said you saw me earlier? 
PATIENT: See, I saw you earlier and you were with Jean Mantis and I was sure that you were discussing all my problems with Jean Mantis, that was my first reaction. And I was really; like I just felt like, oh shit I gave myself in to him and then what if it doesn't work out. 
COUNSELOR: No, I understand what you are saying. 
PATIENT: And like you were just, you had no right to be there sort of. Then you went there and I wanted to see who you were there with and things like that. 
COUNSELOR: By the way, Jean is not a bad person to talk to if you were feeling bad. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: She's pretty good. So anyhow. So you felt more revealed then (inaudible 17:15) I know the feeling. I've probably told you about all my problems too. I don't' care if people know who I am but that is good information and nobody knows (inaudible 17:30). I mean I haven't said anything to anyone I know what we are like. I can see that really put your mind at rest. 
PATIENT: No, I'm - I don't think I want you to be (inaudible 17:58). Like you are a good dancer I didn't' want to see you dancing. I didn't' want to see you there. I just want you to stay here kind of. 
COUNSELOR: Don't leave this office. 
PATIENT: You know.
COUNSELOR: See I don't see that as stimulating your feeling for me, somewhat. 
PATIENT: By having you have an outside life? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, especially when that outside life intrudes into your outside space.
PATIENT: Yeah. Like Saturday night. 
18:42
COUNSELOR: So how do you feel about me, I want to hear more about that? That is important, I want you hear you say it. 
PATIENT: Well, like I, you know, at first like I really liked you and I thought I would have liked to have gone out with you. Yeah, I would have liked to have gone out with you. And you were just listening and caring and then last week after we talked about that thing you said about the phone, (inaudible) that therapist patient relationship and that was like, I knew I could handle that and that was all right. And then I decided that I wouldn't like you outside of this office and I was sure about that. Which really isn't true, but I said that to myself. But see I do care; I care what you think of me. I wouldn't come in here looking really ugly, like I would put on eye makeup every time I come in here. 
COUNSELOR: Is that why you don't want to cry? You don't' want to ruin your -
PATIENT: Oh god, no. I'm not that way. No, but what I mean is that I wouldn't' just - I care what you think of me physically. 
COUNSELOR: I think of you often physically. Yeah, you are really tough as they say on the block. 
20:18
PATIENT: That's nice. I've been feeling particularly ugly lately. 
COUNSELOR: That's amazing. That always amazes me. I mean I've heard that a million times in here from the most beautiful women in the world and you're one of them. That is really interesting.
PATIENT: So, I really, well it's funny, last night I said to myself why don't you go in there and just say to him... 
COUNSELOR: Say it. 
PATIENT: Just go in there and - I don't' know if I can say this or not, I'd decided that, what if I had just gone up to you and said, "Why don't we just bag this post-therapy sort of thing and just go to bed with each other. That's what went through my mind. Then like I, my armchair reaction to that was that I got really scared and I said I could never do that because then, you know, you really wouldn't like me outside of this office. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, an interesting fantasy. It's not true of course. 
PATIENT: But that is what I-
COUNSELOR: In fact I moved away from you Saturday night because I just wanted to rip you off. 
22:06
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: I have strong boundaries so I'm not going to do it. I have those strong feelings but I'll avoid you; I'm not going to do it. I want to help you through this though. I mean if you do decide to go to bed with someone I want to be able to help you with it. I'm going to be a brother to you, think of it that way. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but?
COUNSELOR: Well, it would feel like incest to me right now; something reminds me of that. 
PATIENT: It would blow my mind I could never do it. But that says something; see that really says something about me I think. 
COUNSELOR: It says; what does it say about you?
PATIENT: I think it says that I just, I just can't imagine being that close to anyone because no one would want me. Do you know what I mean? Yet, I want it but I really, I honestly can't imagine- like I was talking last night with this girl on my floor who, well she was just sort of flipping out last night. She hadn't been answering her phone for a week and then finally she called the fire emergency system and she has been in therapy since August. When I first heard she was in therapy it blew my mind because I just thought she was an incredibly independent girl. She never cared about anyone, she was just into her books at the library and I thought that was really cool. And so, you know, she was the one who said she was talking about how she called and she said, "How do you feel?" She said she had all of these sexual fantasies about her shrink and stuff like that. And I said yeah, but then I said to myself but I honestly - like it would, like for her I felt that if the situation arose she could handle it. I just - it's not coming out right. Like I just couldn't, it is too far, anyone getting close to me is too far removed from me. But that is like - I mean I never find myself saying, "Well, ultimately when I get married..." I can't imagine ever getting married, never. 
COUNSELOR: You're untouchable. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but I don't want it so what I do is I sort of blank out thinking what would it be like. I don't' think I go around depressed saying, "Oh my god, I'm going to be alone for the rest of my life," because I don't think that far ahead. 
COUNSELOR: I have good feeling about you and we will work something out. We'll work it out, I feel very good that we will. By the way, just don't hide from me and we'll work it out or I'll hang up my - we'll work it out. I have a strong feeling about that - just keep coming. But that is not what you are saying, what you are saying is you don't even think about getting married because that seems so distant. But what is it about yourself that - like let's say you and I went to bed, okay. No, let's use somebody else. Let's say you went to bed with someone else because I am so accepting that I would accept you no matter what you did. What is it about you, why wouldn't he like you? Where are the ugly parts of you that you are hiding? What would that be?
PATIENT: It's more like, I like, feel like, I panic. 
26:35
COUNSELOR: You panic why? You think he couldn't handle your craziness?
PATIENT: Yeah, because it would be all this responsibility on me. I don't know. Yeah, I guess that's it because I never really share my thoughts with people. And maybe I feel like I would have to be constantly putting on a face that pleased that person and that would, like living with them, I would have to put it on 24 hours a day and I would just feel all tired. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, okay, I get that. Now you can put on the front for a while but when you think of living with someone and having to put on a front all the time, if you live with someone that is impossible. Is that how you feel?
PATIENT: Yeah, plus I get - I just couldn't handle the hurt also. You know like, people I like hurt me easily and they don't even realize how they hurt me. And so if it is someone that I really love and they hurt me I don't think I could handle it at all. (inaudible 27:49??) I think maybe that's another thing I do, sort of (inaudible 28:03). You know, I have - I go like from thinking like sort of the best thing in a relationship to the worst. 
COUNSELOR: I see, I see. And the other thing is that you are in pain and you are crashing and you see things crashing around you. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I can't go through what I went through last quarter, I just can't. In the end I was paralyzed. I couldn't do anything. I couldn't talk to anyone. I just wanted to run. Every time I went on campus I got horribly inhibited. If I went in someplace for lunch I was sure everyone was staring at me and things were just really strained. And I feel myself doing that, I am doing that in my classroom. Like I am going in there tomorrow and I just know that no matter what I do - I have no confidence in what I have to say. 
COUNSELOR: What time is your class tomorrow? 
PATIENT: 9:30 to 10:00. (inaudible 29:15) 
COUNSELOR: Where?
PATIENT: Just down the street. 
COUNSELOR: Do you have a car or a bicycle. 
PATIENT: Bicycle. 
COUNSELOR: You're afraid of tomorrow. 
PATIENT: I'm petrified. I can't think of anything to do. I have been thinking about it all weekend and I have no idea what I am going to do in there and I feel like I am going to be this complete failure. 
COUNSELOR: I'll tell you what I often do when I'm in those situations, when I am very scared, I very often open the class by saying that I am scared and I don't think it is going well and I am afraid. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but then they will crucify me. 
COUNSELOR: For what? 
PATIENT: I know they would, that is what they want from me. I mean they are doing everything in the book to break me. Plus I think a lot of this is just my fantasy and a little thing goes off and if I could just blow it off a bit but it crushes me inside and I can't believe I can do it. I don't know. . 
30:32
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you are hanging on to that, waiting for that inevitable ax to come down across your neck. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, like I am counting how many days I have left. 
COUNSELOR: What is that for? Is there anyone in your department who advises you that you can talk to about that? Like who is your supervisor for student teaching?
PATIENT: It's a woman named Beatrice Calveston. 
COUNSELOR: Beatrice who?
PATIENT: Beatrice Calveston. 
COUNSELOR: Can you talk to her?
PATIENT: She is all right. 
COUNSELOR: But can you talk to her about how you feel?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Why not? Come on, why not?
PATIENT: Well, for one thing it's like I'm admitting failure to someone else and I'd rather have that feeling inside myself instead of telling someone. If I tell someone they just make me feel like it's pulling at me, saying, "Well, how do you feel now?"
COUNSELOR: You ought to try talking to her once, at least, I think; that's my advice. Because the feelings that you are having about all this are very common; normal for student teaching and where you are at particularly and she may be able to even tell you something, like forget about your feelings, but she may be able to tell you something instrumental that you can do that will help. Can you talk to her today?
PATIENT: Yeah, I can call her or maybe go over there. 
32:36
COUNSELOR: You should do it in person. 
PATIENT: Yeah, that is what I meant, call her and book something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, why don't you do that; take some advice from your counselor. 
PATIENT: I don't know. Yeah, but you see, I'm afraid that I am going to go through life doing this sort of thing. Like all of a sudden I feel like, literally, yesterday in class I felt like, I have to leave, I have to leave. I didn't' have any money in my account to go home, but I wanted to split. I really did. I just wanted to go and sort of hide somewhere. 
COUNSELOR: Well, you better not. I don't care whether you do your teaching but you better not leave. You are going to give me 20 hours or I am going to hunt you down. And don't stand me up either. 
PATIENT: Nope. You see, I also got angry at you sort too like you made me this way. 
COUNSELOR: I did contribute to it, I think. I mean even though, and I think I did that and it's okay and we can deal with it. And I really like you and I really want to help you. Okay. And remember, I never promised you a rose garden. 
PATIENT: Oh god, I finished that yesterday. I don't know why I did that. That is what I did. See, I finished that and then I went to sleep and I had all the lights on in the afternoon and all the books on my bed, you know, but like I - because I didn't want it to be dark and I was scared of the dark. But I didn't and I felt guilty like I should be out facing my problems and I didn't want to wake up sort of and have them all there again. Because I just say, "Why can't you just be happy?" 
COUNSELOR: It will probably get worse before it gets better, by the way. I mean, I really feel really washed out after I haven't slept in about 36 hours and I have a hard time operating and functioning but the other feeling I have is just a lot of sympathy for you Saturday; I mean that must have been really hard. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it really was. When I think about it, it was really awful. 
36:02
COUNSELOR: I was really surprised to see you there. 
PATIENT: Were you?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because you didn't know what it would be like. 
PATIENT: No, but I did, you see. I thought that it would be funny. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, they really get into it don't they. 
PATIENT: Then at one point I was just - I had lost everybody and I kept losing everybody I was with, you know, and that was weird for me. And people were coming up that I didn't want - you see I didn't want to bond with -
COUNSELOR: Well, what you are working with now is just partly, it's the sexual stimulation and how to deal with it and when it comes too fast you panic. Okay. When it comes at a rate that is hard to deal with you panic. And that thing was like, incredibly difficult for a lot of people, a lot of people. And then particularly for you since that is one of the issues you are working on right now, like how to get close to that sexual stimulation without it driving you up the wall. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but you see, I think I repressed all that totally because if you had come in here and you said describe everything you felt about that I wouldn't have said that, see. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know. 
PATIENT: I think I would've said, well I would've said I felt sorry for some people. Like maybe I'm blocked. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're blocked, of course. I like the way you dealt with that, denial. I feel sorry for them, not me, you're all right. You don't have any feelings. Yeah, I understand that it's okay. It's okay to block. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that party was what set me off. 
38:51
COUNSELOR: I think you came through that fairly successfully, by the way. You had no fear. 
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I don't' know about anything anymore. And things just aren't - I mean, they hit harder now. My feelings, like yesterday just hit really too hard. 
COUNSELOR: Why what happened?
PATIENT: Well, just the whole day just sort of was horrible. 
COUNSELOR: You were feeling?
PATIENT: Like, I just was feeling nothing, nothing just sort of felt right and I had self-pity and just really frightened like I didn't know what to do. Like I couldn't do anything because all I could do was just panic. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 40:37) 
PATIENT: No, I was just panicking all weekend. 
COUNSELOR: All weekend? 
PATIENT: I think (inaudible 41:00) sort of. Everything. 
COUNSELOR: Were you Saturday, in the buff?
PATIENT: Not, well yes and yeah I guess so maybe. Like I just wish I -
COUNSELOR: Who was the best?
PATIENT: I wish I could say there was someone that I really cared about. 
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't know how you can connect with someone.
PATIENT: And I know it was blowing my mind because at one point this friend of mine and he made some sort of, he blurted out, "You white people are going to find out," and stuff like that and I was just yelling at him and screaming at him. And I know he was like sort of shocked, or maybe I was shocked. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Well, what did you say? 
42:23
PATIENT: I said, "Instead of you bullshitting, this happens with anybody. It's not like a white thing versus a black thing," and stuff like that. And then he made some sort of thing like, "Little Miss Muffet what got into you tonight?" And that blew my mind. I'm not Little Miss Muffet, I'm not happy all the time; I'm not smiling all the time; I don't feel like I am a happy person so just fuck off. I don't know, I just - and another time when I was sitting there this little boy, really, he seemed like a little boy, he had a yellow robe on and he came up and he said to me, "Are you lonely?" And I said, "No, I'm not right now." I was but I didn't want to tell him that. He said, "Do you go here?" And I said, "Yeah." He said, "Did you graduate?" And I said, "Yeah." He said, "Oh, I'm undergraduate, I'm a sophomore." 
COUNSELOR: And what was he saying about himself?
PATIENT: Well he was really lonely. And then he said to me -
COUNSELOR: Did you share that with him?
PATIENT: No. He said, "Have you ever felt completely alone in a crowd?" 
COUNSELOR: And what did you say?
PATIENT: I didn't know how to handle it, I didn't, you know, because he was talking about me too. 
44:20
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like he was talking, like he had the same problem as you. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but then he would have stayed and talked to me and I didn't want him there. 
COUNSELOR: Why not? What was wrong with him?
PATIENT: I didn't want people around me. I didn't want that responsibility; I just didn't. You see I didn't want anybody but I wanted everybody kind of. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well, I don't know how good it is in that whole situation, I mean it was so bizarre and so atypical. And there is no (inaudible 45:11). I mean what you need is like gradual building into something, I think. And that was not a gradual event. 
PATIENT: I know. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, let's do what we can. There are two things you don't bring up in here. I have some issues and I want you to start with these issues. One is this issue thing like feelings about each other and what is holding things up. Two, my feelings; like I want you to start initiating my feelings. 
PATIENT: My feelings?
COUNSELOR: Our feelings. I want you to get in touch with me. I feel today like I have done very good with getting in touch with your feelings. I'm not feeling very good because I was up sick all night. So I feel very off but like next time I am going to give you some stuff and I want you to read this stuff; not too carefully but look at it. And I need this back too by the way, but take from it what you want. Particularly this top one; that one, you don't have to read that one but the top two. You can look at the others but this is like the group, I want to do this in the group thing. But mainly for you I want you to do the top two. Look at them and go through them and pick out and try it. Try it here, there and everywhere. Try it in your class it will help you. 
PATIENT: All right. 
COUNSELOR: Okay? 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You look miserable. Are you miserable?
47:38
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Wait, wait; sit down. 
PATIENT: I often feel like, I just don't want to go out there, kind of, you know. I'm just - I don't want to go out there. I don't' want to face all the shit I have to do. I don't' want to do any of that stuff. I'm scared.
COUNSELOR: It's going to be hard. Maybe you shouldn't go tomorrow. 
PATIENT: No, I can't do that; I'd rather face it. Because like I'm scared and I have built it up because I haven't been to school Friday or today. 
COUNSELOR: If you want to call me tomorrow at home after it is over and let me know how it went, good or bad. 
PATIENT: All right, that would be good. You know, I have to go. If I don't I'll be thrown off campus. 
COUNSELOR: Call. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Maybe this will help you a little bit in class, there are things like if someone yells at you in class or does something, - (sounds like turning pages in a book) don't take any of this stuff to seriously. Oh here. This is good. Will you be able to read these after school?
51:29
PATIENT: I think so. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, look at it because some of it will be totally irrelevant to where you are at but some of it will be okay. I want you to get into being into other peoples feelings, that will do two things, 1. It will make other people feel better with you and it will get you off the spotlight. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You don't have to respond to much now. You don't even have to react to someone right now. You could just say, "I know how you feel so and so." Your reflecting feeling is good in terms of getting in touch with someone but it is also good in terms of deflecting someone; you can do it both ways. If somebody comes up to you and says, "What kind of teacher are you, you white bitch?" And you can say, "I don't have to take that." Okay, so you are angry and that anger is in you and what good does that do for you? I'm sorry, I'm so out of it today. I am really washed out and wiped out. I almost called in today. 
PATIENT: What happened?
COUNSELOR: I haven't eaten in about 24 hours either; I can't eat. 
53:04
PATIENT: Why not?
COUNSELOR: I'm not feeling well. 
PATIENT: Physically or mentally?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, physically; and mentally too. I'm depressed. And that's bad. I'm the worst guy to get. I just got wiped out last weekend. I'm sitting on a lot of rage. I mean really rage and I am too tired to even deal with it now. Maybe you can help me deal with it. It is just bubbling and boiling over like I want to kill. I really want to kill. 
PATIENT: Wow!
COUNSELOR: Now, where am I? 
PATIENT: I hope it's not what I said. 
COUNSELOR: No, not with you. It would be hard for me to be mad at you. But I if I was I would let you know about it. I need to be very careful about this stuff. 
PATIENT: Not to be angry at you?
COUNSELOR: Although you can tell me though. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I will. 
COUNSELOR: How about 10:30 Wednesday?
PATIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: If you want to call me tomorrow I will be at home. Call me one way or the other. 
PATIENT: All right. 
COUNSELOR: And I will probably be sleeping but that is okay. 
PATIENT: That is really good of you to let me call you. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Just give me a minute when you call like if I sound groggy it's okay. Now, what time do you get done with class; 10:30?
PATIENT: 10:30 but I wouldn't call you till 1:00
COUNSELOR: Then I might be in and out then. But if you call at 10:30 I would definitely be at home. 
PATIENT: All right. 
COUNSELOR: Call, call; call me. I'll try and be home so I can hear. What are you going to do now? Who are you going to talk to?
PATIENT: I'll talk to Beatrice Calveston.
55:16
END TRANSCRIPT
