TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
_____________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


24-006 session 5. 


PATIENT: Sorry I'm late, traffic is getting worse.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm sure this is a horrible time to have to get somewhere.


PATIENT: Sometimes I wish you'd start it out. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 0:00:41] just sitting there.


PATIENT: Just really too unstructured. Like in order to say anything or to talk about anything there has to be some kind of context in which we discuss it in that context. it's kind of in a way, a similar feeling, but not as bad, as just when I come in with a new group of people and they're talking about something and I don't fit in. And I just feel like not saying anything because it's really hard. And you asked me at one point on Tuesday, if when I was feeling like I felt... I was feeling this really bad way when there's more [inaudible 0:02:10] group of people. If someone had come up to me and said, "What's wrong? Could I have told?" And I couldn't think then, if I could've I'm not. I said that I'm pretty sure that I couldn't have, because in a lot of ways, this situation here is one in which I can talk. So far I've felt pretty comfortable talking. And yet I realize that Monday night, I didn't want to come here Tuesday. Like I really didn't want to come on Tuesday, but by Tuesday I was ok.


COUNSELOR: But like this would be part of that feeling of not being able to... 


PATIENT: It was like I didn't want to talk to anybody. I didn't want to talk to you. 


COUNSELOR: Are you saying something like... the image that came to my mind was breaking in, when you're sitting with a bunch of people, you really have to take so much energy to break in. And I was wondering if sometimes you thought you had to push your way in here too. 


PATIENT: Mmhmm.


COUNSELOR: I'm not sure into what. 


PATIENT: Well, into whatever should be talked about. Because I really... It is sort of that I can't remember whatever we ended on last time, which would probably provide an opening but I can never remember it. And... What was I going to say? 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel at all as though I have some idea about what it might be that we should talk about that I'm not ...


PATIENT: No, I don't feel that at all. I wish you did, that's the whole thing. Because it is kind of like the whole entry thing keeps swirling around. A whole lot of times, depending on the situation I'm in, one thing will be rubbing me bad and another time another thing will be. I don't know that focusing on any of them is going to do me good. I don't know if anything should be focused on, or just talk. 


COUNSELOR: You're saying like it would help to feel you were going somewhere, maybe. [0:05:08]


PATIENT: Probably.


COUNSELOR: Because you're saying about wishing you could take off where you left off, if only to start. But I was wondering if that also felt like there would be some continuity to it. That it is like fragmenting the talk about one rub and then another and then another.


PATIENT: Yeah. I also don't remember what I talked about. Because there will be times if I'm really absorbed in something, something is going to bother me. But I can't remember whether I told you about it or not. And I wouldn't have thought about it or dreamed about it or whatever. 


COUNSELOR: I'm not sure whether you're saying that and just saying, "ok, I know this is how it is but still this is how it makes me feel." Or whether there's some sense of, "look, I really don't like this and I wish I could change it in some way. Or I wish I could do something different." I'm not really sure...


PATIENT: I guess I'm trying, I'm kind of saying all that. I guess too, just debating about what I feel comfortable talking to you about. Like I get really tired of saying the same things, not being able to control my moods, which has happened a lot of the time when we talk. Because just saying it doesn't get me anywhere as far as doing anything about it. Or understanding it. [0:07:36] 


I think there are times when I don't really want to talk. And some senses when I'm really depressed, I don't have the energy to write, or talk, or anything else. It is just everything requires too much energy. Like why bring up feelings that are there and be [inaudible phrase 0:08:30] 


COUNSELOR: Are you saying why bring them out and really look at them when they may end up hurting you more? 


PATIENT: Well, let's see. 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like just toward the end there, and go ahead after this if you want, I just wanted to say that it sounds like you're feeling kind of bitter about where you saw yourself at this point. I was wondering...


PATIENT: I don't know what you mean by that.


COUNSELOR: Well, when you were talking about some of the things that make it hard for you to talk or make it confusing, it sounded like you were feeling sort of... kind of disgusted with that, or disgusted with feeling that you've been working on some things and haven't changed them or why bring them up and... 


PATIENT: Sometimes. I don't know, I just... My aunt called me this morning about 8:00 and said she was going to kill herself. And I sort of hung up on her. That was [inaudible phrase 0:10:06] And when she was fighting, there have just been a whole lot of bad things going on there and I was just really tired of hearing about them. I mean, I knew she really felt like killing herself, and it was going to be because her boyfriend had left her. I guess what scared me about it was, when driving to work, was that's part of the reason I feel like killing myself all the time, not feeling rejected so much, it is just I'm not being, "alright he left me therefore I'll kill myself, that rotten person I'll show him." It is much more of a, "they've got their own lives and I don't fit in with them, therefore I'll kill myself." And it is in a sense a different reason, but it is still the same thing that because I can't get things my way or the way that I need to have them, that's going to be the out that I'll take. And it just makes me really mad because she is the last person I want to identify with. Almost makes me feel like I have to go out of my way not to feel hurt when my boyfriend doesn't feel like I feel like he should. Which in a sense why last night, when he came over, it was very nice. [0:11:34]


There was no conversation. It was like, he was just there. And I didn't dare bring up anything that was important or significant or anything else. And then when I drove him home, he asked if I wanted to play Bridge on Saturday night, which is one thing that we usually enjoy doing together, and somehow that was just another way of being together without talking. And I usually really enjoy Bridge because it gets my mind off things and it is really a fun thing to do. And I said no. That was the last thing I felt like doing in that moment, but I'd let him know if I change my mind. But at that point I was just deciding, "look, I can't stand this emotional... I've got to have some expression of feeling, not maintaining this nice, cold, civil image of myself in this relationship." But it is too emotional for that. If it is not going to be emotional then I just... the heck with it. I just got to get away. Get out of it.


COUNSELOR: So you're saying, "if there's nothing for me in being self-contained and in part." Everything is going on that level at this point.


PATIENT: Mmhmm. I mean, if there can be more than that, then sure you can have a very good time doing superficial things, but if that's all there is, then I'd just as soon play cards with perfect strangers. It would be about as meaningful. At that point I was just really considering it, except that it is freezing outside, just taking my dog and going camping. Mostly because I really don't want to face this weekend. I don't want to face it with him or without him. Without any kind of nice structured thing to do. Because I kind of know if I stay here, I'll wish I was away. Or else I have that great Bridge game to work from. Man, that's not what I want. In a sense just doing that would probably be the worst thing in the world for me. [0:14:31]


Like last night, we had a dinner, just very informal my roommate and her boyfriend and my boyfriend and another roommate. It was unplanned and it went so well. I sort of ran the whole thing, and cooked and joined in the conversation and felt perfectly comfortable with everybody. Which is like the opposite side of me from the side that sits and withdrawals and feels like she doesn't fit in with anything. That kind of situation in a sense is the best thing in the world for me, and withdrawing from people completely is never going to put me in that situation. 


I was thinking last night when I was thinking about, kind of planning this camping trip, because I could just take of from work tomorrow and leave, that it might be a fantastic thing if I got really interested and just ran along the beach with the dog and stuff that I'd feel really good. But also just sitting by myself and not talking to anybody, I could just really easily want to kill myself out there. I was sort of having these parallel thoughts, because how am I going to get my dog back home if I kill myself, because I can't leave her alone and stuff like that.


It was like somehow I had to get away, and I didn't really care what happened, or where I went. Not a very well planned kind of thing. It was just sort of an option, and therefore just seize it. But I don't want to. 


COUNSELOR: Felt kind of like rushing away from a lack of structure, and then it sounds like finding yourself threatened with another kind of lack of structure almost.


PATIENT: Well it would be not necessarily a lack of structure, because I can enjoy just sitting outside. Sitting in the rain, or walking or anything like that, that's fine. But just the deliberate separation of myself from human beings when I should probably be spending my time at least meeting some new people around here, and sort of doing something to get myself out of the rut from being dependent on my boyfriend, who I can't talk to. Really what I need right now is a really good friend that I can share things with.


COUNSELOR: A friend...


PATIENT: Yeah, that it is just a very mutual relationship that I've got with people that are spread at various points in this country. That are just really good friends. But they're not here, so in a sense I should be going out and trying to establish some relationships with people, but I'm too busy running. [0:17:52]


COUNSELOR: And also at some level it sounds to me like formulating the task like that or at that level makes it a hell of a thing to try and do. I'm not sure if that's clear but it's like saying, "I have to go meet people." It is like... It leaves me with a sense of imperative, that it is something I need to do, but nothing says I can do this to go there, or I can do this to go and approach it. Am I clear in what I'm saying?


PATIENT: You mean as far as actual steps to get there that are clear and obvious and easy?


COUNSELOR: Well, not only that, but I guess I was thinking just formulating them in that way, to me, makes things like that seem even bigger, or even more impossible. Like saying, "well, I know what the trouble is and now I have to go do some X and X is maybe something that's been hard all my life," and putting in a big lump like that makes it impossible, or feel impossible anyway. 


PATIENT: The thing is, it is not impossible, but I just don't want to do it. I mean, I just really don't have the energy to do it. 


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: I mean, somehow, something inside me really wants to destroy me. To go out and meet people and to forget about my boyfriend will in a lot of ways save me, and somehow I don't have the energy to do that even though I know that's the right thing to do. There's something, I don't know whether its... some of it is that I won't be able to succeed, but that's not all of it. Some of it, in some ways I will succeed. There are a couple of guys that I got to partially know this summer when my boyfriend when my boyfriend was out of town, that I'd really like to see again. I just got a message today that one of them wants me to call him. That would really help, but then there's this part of me that doesn't want to talk to anybody. Especially somebody that I like, and want to establish a good friendship with, I don't want them to know this part of me, that's just really out of it. [0:20:25] 


COUNSELOR: So it is like you're saying, "Look it isn't a matter of steps, I know how to take the steps. The real struggle is inside me, I'm the one that's making it impossible for me to do it." I don't know how that battle is going to go.


PATIENT: There are people that I could begin seeing, and it would be easy to make contact with them, and find things to do with them, but I've go to have "Me" to present to them and be with them, and I don't know who that Me is going to be. I don't like the one that is there now. Has been for the most part. It is that same kind of thing that, I will not write my very best friends, because somehow I feel that I'm not the kind of person that I'd like to be. One thing I was thinking of doing if I care about them is to write all these letters. One thing I realized is that I can go camping with all these letters I have left to answer from last year. And unless I feel extremely high, and good and things like that, I'm not going to be able to write to a single person. Because I'm not going to want them to have to listen to me. I mean, I wouldn't write about anything that was wrong or anything else, I just simply couldn't write to them.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like it is just this total thing, and you can't even bring yourself to communicate when you feel like that.


PATIENT: I don't want to communicate when I feel like that. It is like it is really ironic in a way, but every single one of my very best friends has gotten married this year. My best friend that I grew up with I guess had a baby in the middle of September, but I just heard about it last night, when talking to my mom. And the reason I just heard about it is because she wrote me last April. I was the maid of honor in a wedding in March, and we have known each other since we were four and we've always been very close. She moved to Mexico in March and wrote me when she got there and told me about the expected baby, and was all sorts of happy and sent me a birthday present. And I have not been able to write to send her a thank you for the present, to send her a wedding present, a baby present, to send her a card even for her own birthday. I wrote her half of a letter at some point, half of a letter and I felt good. I felt bad after that and I was never able to finish it. And I'm still not.


Her mother is kind of my adopted mother now, because her mother is looking after my aunt, and I've taken on her address as my permanent address. And I hear from her mother all the time, and her mother keeps writing me things like, "why don't you write my daughter?" And I can't do it. It is a really horrible feeling, and a lot of it stems from the fact that... Well, it is kind of with all of them, each person that has gotten married or is about, this one guy I grew up with at the same time who is just like a brother to me, I just found out also last night that he's getting married in December, and I'm really happy. But at this point I don't think I can write to him. 


It is like somehow each of them have established in some ways a really happy life and I'm really glad for them. Somehow I'm just this person that, because I haven't found any kind of a happy life at all, and don't know that I ever will, I feel like I can't join them in their happiness because I'm not a solid person myself [0:25:05]


COUNSELOR: Is there something about this, this is truly effecting you, is there something that there is a feeling that you will sully this happiness of theirs, or that you would make it go sour a little bit?


PATIENT: Somehow I won't add to it. I mean, people... When you're really happy about something you don't go up... If you've got a boyfriend and you're in college, you don't go up this girl in your hall that never has any dates and you don't go up to her and tell her how happy that you've got new boyfriend. And it is that kind of thing that, that would only make you unhappy and guilty because you've got something you don't have. And until I'm really happy myself and don't have to be somebody that they have to ask how things are gong with, or... Then it's like I really do much, much better to just stay away from them, in every sense of the word, just have no contact with them at all. Letter-wise, or anything else. Part of it, I guess, is that I feel this way toward absolutely everyone, except maybe this one girl who I was also maid-of-honor at her wedding in July, I've maintained pretty good contact with her, better than everyone else. Somehow I feel like I can give something to her, and I can talk to her about how she feels and she'll talk to me and be really open. [0:27:00]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like some of that is almost like, "If I try to communicate with some of these people who are happy, they're going to have to protect me, they're going to have to think about what they say to me, they're going to have to check up on me and see if I can take it almost. They'll sense that I don't know whether pity is relevant here, but that they'll have to treat me like a weak sister sort of."


PATIENT: Just being with them a lot of times I just feel like I'm floating away. It is nice to see me, but I can't really offer them anything. And it is not like I never go to them and complain about how things are and everything else, and I think if you asked any of them, they wouldn't feel that way. They wouldn't feel like I didn't want to see them, or that I was a moping complaining person to have around the house or something. But on the other hand, I feel like unless I feel really deeply secure or anything else, than the happiness I put on is really a superficial kind of thing. I don't think it comes across this way, but somehow it is not totally me. It is like acting a role or something like that. And if I'm with people who are really close friends, and I've been really lucky having guys and girls both that I'm talking about now are all girls that I'm talking about. I mean that are just marvelous, marvelous people and would do anything in the world for me, and that kind of thing. And because I really value their friendship, and because I really would like some kind of total relationship with them as far as being really open about talking and really knowing where each other stands and feels and that kind of thing. 


I can't do it. I mean, I'm really hesitant right now to see this one girl that I'm closest to. It is just so much easier to go back in the woods someplace and be a hermit. [0:29:43]


COUNSELOR: Something about, I hear you saying, "They might be really willing to receive me, to hear about what my problem is, what I'm worrying about, or how I'm feeling about this self of mine," but there sounds like there is something in you that has to feel you can participate in a certain way or else it is not, sounds like another kind of impossibility. There's something that just keeps you from doing it. What would, sometimes these questions are hard to answer, what would be the consequence for you, how would you feel if you spent a weekend with one of these people and you felt that that bad self was pretty evident. That you couldn't help pick it up at some point, that you couldn't cover it up.


PATIENT: I don't know. It somewhat happened, this friend in Madison, because I've been able to see her a lot. Also she's the one that just got married last month and I used to be able to go up and stay with her. For a while it was fine, because she and I were both going through the same thing, not being completely happy with where we were, and not knowing where we were going and each of us having all these kind of romantic ideas about things that we'd like to do and going off. We'd just have a great time just talking about them. But now that's all off. Because I'm still back there, but she's not. And I really have trouble just finding things to talk to her about. [0:31:40]


We are just on different levels, we're not going through the same kinds of things. This girl that is in Mexico now, and had a baby in September, partially, I'm so fantastically jealous of her, and yet happy for her. I don't know whether she feels this or not. We used to both talk when we were kids how we each wanted to have ten kids. We were both only children, so we both were like sisters growing up- she had a brother that died when she was very little- and we each wanted a farm and raise ten kids and hundreds of animals. This was like our dream. And she still has it and I still have it...


COUNSELOR: And she has a part of it really now.


PATIENT: And she can still get it and I don't feel like I can. I just feel like I've got to let her live her life. It is like I really wish I could visit her and somehow not be me, somehow get out of myself and really be able to join in on her plane. 


COUNSELOR: And take that part of you along that can really share that dream and say, "I really am glad that you've got part of it." But you're saying you would have to take that jealous part along too. Or at least you would have to take the feelings with you, and that... [0:33:46]


PATIENT: I'd have to take all of me along, and right now all of me is really pretty much of a failure, at anything. A failure being not reaching what you consider valuable. I couldn't do that. Because I wouldn't be able to talk to her. And I really thought about doing this internship in Mexico, just to see them, just to be around them. I love her husband, he's really marvelous. They're the kind of people I could really have a lot of fun with if I could just keep myself from getting depressed. And if I could just bring myself to talk to her or get her to talk to me on some kind of an open level. But I can't. And she's not the kind of person who will really open up to you unless you're really open. Which I'm not.


I guess the reason I've stayed in contact with this one girl, that is now in New Hampshire that I was the closest to I guess. She'll come out and ask me, and she's really open herself. She'll explore every kind of feeling under the sun, and talk about absolutely anything with you, and let you know what she really feels about it herself. It is not you're crying on her shoulder, it is the two of you discussing things like, what is it like to be tied down to one man, and what should you do with all of your really good male friends, what are the values of life that you're heading toward and that kind of thing. [0:35:43] 


What it is that worries you about things that are going on in your family and things like that. There are things that she would bring up that I would never bring up. But that because she brings them up I can talk to her about them, and end up laughing with her and both of us feeling really good about it. But I can't do that with any of these other friends. I'm sure a lot of my own mannerisms turn them off, and really make them afraid to ask, "How are you?"


COUNSELOR: Like what?


PATIENT: Because I'm not willing to start talking about how I'm feeling or what's bothering me or anything else. They'll just, they're in a sense afraid to ask what's going on because I'm going to try to pass it off. Like if they say, "How are you?" I'm going to say, "Fine." What's been going on this year of life and working and just doing very superficial things.


COUNSELOR: They'll know it or sense it maybe, and you certainly know it, and you don't think you can do anything about it and that leaves you...


PATIENT: I mean, just knowing that it is so hard for me to say anything else, or so hard fro me to talk about how I really feel, which it is, and which is very evident if they ever ask me about how I felt, would make them really afraid to ask or just talk about basic "what's going on?" kind of things.


COUNSELOR: I'm wondering, and I realize in some ways this is probably a very different situation but, I'm wondering what it does to you to come here and talk about what you're talking about. What is the self-love that you bring here?


PATIENT: I don't know. It varies.


COUNSELOR: Are there days... Have there been days or times when you've minded what you've brought in here? Like you would have like to gone in some different way?


PATIENT: Sometimes.


COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering if I've seen any of what you're talking about.


PATIENT: Not so much. Somewhat. Some things have been very hard. sometimes I've talked about the least important things to avoid talking about other things.


COUNSELOR: What's in that? There are all kinds of reasons people don't want to talk about things. Is it similar to what you're talking about with your friends? [0:39:05]


PATIENT: I don't know what it amounts to. 


COUNSELOR: Are you feeling pressed by these questions? Am I pushing too hard?


PATIENT: No, the questions don't bother me. I just don't know the answer. I'm feeling depressed about the reality, to be honest, that I've just described. It is really too bad, because people are really the most important thing to me in the world. I'd flunk exams and term papers and everything else if I could spend time talking to someone that had a problem. Close friends are the most important thing to me, like really close friends. I tend to be really far from somebody or really close to somebody. I don't have that many just sort of buddies. I never have. I have a few really close friends that sort of go everywhere with me, or do everything with me and everyone else was just stranger, or just about a stranger. I guess I feel like I'm losing all of my really close friends because of me. I'm losing the possibility of getting any others.


I've lived through beginning my second year in living with four girls in this house and I don't know any of them. It is like we're really strangers. 


COUNSELOR: It is almost like you're saying, "how can that happen? If people are so important, how can that happen that I can cut myself off like that?" Is that something I'm saying that you're not saying?


PATIENT: I'm not asking how it can happen, I'm saying it happened. I went kind of through the same kind of things with a group of high school friends I had at this one high school I went to. It was fantastic, it was a whole group that sort of took me in when I moved there, and I became really good friends with some of them. [0:42:04]


Then I moved away and at first, when I would go back, I'd call all of them, and we'd get together and have a really good time. The last time I was down there, I went because my aunt had died, and the whole family ended up staying there for a while to finish up all sorts of family affairs. And somehow I felt really good then, that was the first fall I was here, and I was still really liking this place and I was still really up. I had just gotten back from Europe and I was going to make it in New York on my own, I was really looking forward to it. I felt like I could do anything under the sun. 


When I went to Knoxville, when I finally got over my Aunt's death, which took a while, I still felt strong. In a lot of ways it was like I was taking over and taking care of the whole family. And I was a benefit to everybody there and I was looking over my little brother. I was... My Aunt had never had any kids, I was her heir. She left everything to me and in a sense I was her substitute daughter. My grandmother knew this and so somehow having me there was a really good thing, because she knew how much my Aunt had loved me, and just kind of having me there to support her and to do things, take care of anything that needed to be done. I felt useful both practically, in taking care of what needed to be done and in negotiating with my Aunt's husband, who the family didn't get along with that well, and trying to keep harmony between them, which I managed to do very well. Everyone thought it was going to be a horrible thing to have to do. 


Somehow I managed to keep things both practically and emotionally, and to just fill everybody's needs and just be myself. And before that week was over with, by the time I finished being really necessary in my family, I called most of my girlfriends. Most of them had moved away, but I called their mothers and find out what they were doing and everything. I had the best time, just getting acquainted again, with the girls themselves, or with their parents and finding out what they were doing. And I was all set to write all of them and sort of reestablish talks, simply because I felt good about me. I could write them, and I still really do value all their friendships, but I left, and I got depressed after I left and so it's like things went steadily down hill after that. And I could no longer write it down, anything.


It is not because it is easy to procrastinate and stuff like that, but the thing is that I would really like to write them back, or see them. And I don't even feel like seeing them. [0:45:49.4]


COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like there's just a total difference between how you were there and how you felt about yourself and how you are now. It is like there's no... well, let's see. I'm not sure what I mean. It sounds like you're just feel like a totally different person.


PATIENT: The fact is, both people are there and they've always been there. There was a long period before this particular fall that I had trouble taking to the girls down there. When I've gone back a couple of times, I've gone back for these particular operations that I didn't particularly... I didn't even want them to know that I was there for, that I felt really, really bad about. So those times I'd be in town for weeks and I wouldn't call any of them. So it is not like before everything was good and now everything is bad. There have been a lot of times when it has been good and when it has been bad. Most times it has been bad. but the possibility is there that it can be good, and every once in a while something will trigger something and things will go really well and I'll be really close to these people again, and we'll establish close friendships or something like that.


COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense for what those things are that make it better or worse? Or is it totally unpredictable? [0:47:26]


PATIENT: When I have an occasion to feel good about myself, the way I described that week with family when I was on top of the world about everything. I was optimistic about what I was going to do, I had some sort of plan about my studies and I felt good about myself and my abilities and my emotions. I just felt like a really whole person, a successful person. Not that I had really an success in sort of material terms to do, I didn't have a job that I was all of a sudden in, or anything else, I was still looking around. But I felt good about myself and I was optimistic with looking around, it wasn't that I'd found something or anything else. 


This kind of whole gestalt of feelings just permitted me to reach out and want to reach out to everybody. You know, whenever I feel really good I want to find some friend of mine and say, "look, this is a really good thing and share this with me." But if things are really bad I don't want to talk to anybody and as a result I don't write to people and they think I don't care about them, and you know that's not the mark of a very good friend.


From their point of view I could think, they must think, "She really cares less, she gets into her own world and doesn't care about her friends anymore." I don't know how to explain to them otherwise. It is easier not to try.[0:49:21]


COUNSELOR: There's no way to tell them, "I'd like to be with you now, except there are times when I can't. I don't want you to feel that I don't care about you, because I do, but I can't come." 


PATIENT: Because I can't even write and I can't talk. And the reason to convey anything would be the fact that I wasn't in good shape myself right now, which is not something that I want to convey. Because then all of a sudden I'm this person to be treated delicately because they don't understand what's going on. And I'm a person to be worried about, and that's not exactly the kind of relationship I want to have with anybody.


COUNSELOR: It's like there's no kind of dignity or strength in saying something like, "I want be by myself, there are times when I want to be by myself. I don't want to talk to anybody." You feel like to indicate anything at all those people would take you as really needing something you don't want. I don't know if it is pity, I don't know if that struck anything to you or not, but it is a word that keeps occurring to me.


PATIENT: It is a word I feel like that it is an emotion that if they start talking to me, they're going to feel like they should feel. Which I don't wan them to feel.


COUNSELOR: That is very degrading or whatever.


PATIENT: It sure can.


COUNSELOR: Almost like being depersonalized. Like you're in pain.


PATIENT: I really got to make it on my own somehow before I can... I have got to make it as a strong person before I come back to them and I don't know if I can do it. I don't know if by that time they'll even want to see me again.[0:51:41]


COUNSELOR: That like in doing what you feel is necessary you not only hurt yourself, but then again, you give yourself this impression of something that you really don't intend. You don't intend to push these people away.


PATIENT: I remember really clearly this girl saying to me, in this group that I was in, and she was one that I considered a pretty close friend in my class, and we were going around telling what we thought of each other, and she said, "I don't know. You really frighten me because you seem to have so many problems they really scare me. And I don't know what to do." Like in a sense, they touched on her problems that she couldn't cope with and it made her afraid to come in contact with me at all, because she was afraid that I was really going through so much. Not that I'd even said to her that I was going through anything at all.


COUNSELOR: Like somehow that emanated from you with a force that really frightened her.


PATIENT: Like she had visited me a few times in the hospital, the last week I was there, recovering. A couple of springs ago. She's call me at first when I went in there I was really fine. She'd call me and say, "How are you?" And I would say, "Fine." She wanted to know what was wrong with me and I wouldn't tell her and that got her really upset. 


She'd keep asking me, "Is it this, is it this?" 


"No it isn't, please don't worry about me, or come to see me or anything like that, I'll come to see you when I get out."


And sort of ever since them, just because I would be physically sick after that, which I was, I was never quite the same strong person in my relationship to her. And I realized just because I had things that I was worried about, it just really upset her, and she just couldn't take it. It made her really not want to talk to me and in fact, she hasn't talked to me very much at all. I've gotten so that I don't want to talk to her at all, just because I know how I come across to her. [0:54:09]


And I don't want to do this to my friends that are really good friends that I've had for a long time. I don't want to do this to them.


COUNSELOR: You don't want to overwhelm them or something and disappoint them almost. Pushing yourself away.


PATIENT: That's what I feel like. Unless I'm a really strong person that can cope with anything, which I can't right now, I mean I can not really, really I'm just truly a mess. I can't face them.


COUNSELOR: It has to be how you see yourself, and however you're presenting yourself that day. Or whatever you look like on the outside. It sounds like right now it is not anything anyone can do for you. It has to be how you see yourself.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: I don't want to cut you off, but we have to stop. 


PATIENT: Yeah, I can see by the clock. 


END TRANSCRIPT
