*TEXT-PV011106  30 July 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Sigh, Pause) Well, I'm still thinking about (Sigh) what was a problem for me yesterday.  And uhm, you know, I've kind of gone through some different reactions to it.  And it's as if I'm still trying to find some way, I think, to uhm, well I don't know whether it's to believe in what I've always believed in, or if it's, you know, to take care of what I've got on hand.  And then hope that I won't keep believing it.  Or whatever, I don't know.
But when I uhm, got up this morning, there were some other things that I did first.  And I thought, well now I'm going to really get at this stuff and see what it is (Laughs).  Because yesterday I didn't even feel I could tell what it was.  You know, I just didn't feel I had much of any judgment.  And uhm, so I was looking at it, and, and there were more things there that were uhm, not things that, you know, were notes that I had made over the years.  And there was much less of what I was really talking about.  And then some things were just note cards on uhm, poems that I found different places, and songs, and games and things that I've started a file to keep on those.
And uh, and then there were some books and things that, some of which I borrowed from Mrs BBF.  So, it didn't look, wh—, you know, the, the stuff that seemed like it could be tossed if I could just do it and not think, well I might be throwing out something I'd want some day, didn't seem to be that great.
Uhm, (Sigh) and so I was feeling better.  And then I was thinking, well then I'll take care of it the way I had planned.  Uhm, which was to compile in a notebook, things that seemed something I would want to remember, or, you know, be able to refer back to.  And, you know, throw the mess of little scraps of paper out, and everything, where I'd written down these notes.  And I have been quite careful not to do that in the last year or two.  Or if I have, it's been fewer, and I tried to make sure I went over them.  Because sometimes I'd get an idea, and I'd jot it down.  And then I would try to throw that piece of paper out, so that I wouldn't have it hanging around so I'd be doing this.  So, there wasn't that much that accu, accumulated.  Uhm, last year, and a little bit more from the year before, and then there were still things from LKC.
So I was, you know, then I was thinking, well, it will take some time that, you know, maybe could be considered wasted time.  But then I'll feel better, because I'll have done it, and there the notebook will be, and maybe I'll never look at it, but it would be there if I want to.
And uhm, and then I was looking for the notebook I had started this last year, or at least I thought I had started it.  I'd started with the idea, anyway.  And when I was looking for the notebook, I came across (Laughs) a whole other group of stuff that I had completely forgotten I had, that's of this, I assume — I didn't even look at it — but I assume it's of this very same nature.  In fact, I had been thinking there had been a bag that I hadn't taken care of, uhm, when we moved, you know, stuff left over from LKC.  And uhm, I had just stuck it in a closet when we moved in where we are.  And then, when I was changing things in the closet, I'd taken it out, and I was surprised, I, I thought I'd come across what it was, in this other th—, pile of things.  But uhm, I kept thinking, gee, I really must have thrown a lot out, and that surprised me.  Well, I think I found it.
And then I really felt depressed.  (Sigh) And I thought oh, you know, this would represent a lot of time.  And then I felt again what I was feeling yesterday, it would just be wasted time.  And uhm, except that it, I feel this need of not just throwing it out.  And then I, I, then I was thinking, well if I, if there were enough stuff, so that it just somehow became oppressive, or if somehow, not maybe enough stuff.  It seems to me there's enough stuff.  But if for some reason the whole idea of taking care of it in any kind of way became a, you know, just thoroughly oppressive to me, then I guess I'd throw it out.  But I'm, I'm still in this in-between stage of thinking, well, I really should throw it out, because most of it I can't imagine, is worth keeping.  But, you know, the old thing, maybe there's something there.  Maybe I'm going to find the secret.
And uh, and then I began to wonder, well even if I hadn't found this other group of stuff, doing what I was thinking of doing.  Uhm, you know, with what I know I have, or knew I had earlier today.  Maybe that would still be continuing to feel, someday maybe I'll find the secret penis, or the secret power, or I don't know.  I don't quite believe in it anymore, but I can't quite toss this stuff out.
And uhm, (Sigh) well, I don't know, I, (Sigh, Pause) but I was thinking about too, what I had felt at the end yesterday.  That, you know, if I didn't have these things to do, you know, first feeling well, I'm, I'm, spen—, wasting time on this.  I could be doing something else.  And then feeling, but what else would I do, and that there being a void, well uhm, I don't know how I was feeling about it last night.  I was feeling, I guess, pretty mixed up last night.  But by today, I kn—, I was no longer feeling it was a void.  In fact, I had a hard time spending any time on this today.  And there were, o—, some other things I would have preferred to do.  And so I was, I don't know, it just made me kind of aware of the fact that I don't think I'll have any trouble doing other things.  Especially, too, because I hadn't spent much time on this over the years.  Which is partly why I have these piles.
Uhm, you know, I do—, I don't think I feel any longer that there'd just be a void, and that, you know, again I was just thinking, I'd like to, whatever I decide to do, I'd like to have it done by the end of this summer.  So that I don't have this as a continuing problem.  But then, I don't know if I uhm, you know, make this notebook up, maybe in a way I'm really just continuing the problem, I'm not sure.  You know, I'll throw away all these scraps of paper, but the attitude mi—, I, I just am not sure if the attitude will still be there, or if it's my only way of coping with something that, you know, I can't quite finalize unless I do it that way.  Uhm, (Sniff) you know, because one way I'll think, well it will all be in 1 little notebook, so that's kind of harmless.  But then on the other hand, if the attitude is still there, uhm, that's not so harmless.
So, (Pause) I don't know, and then I was thinking w—, w—, w—, then I started thinking about, well, the kitchen, uhm, one of the things that is in the kitchen that has to be taken care of, somehow, are some wedding gifts that we had had stored in PTN.  And I don't know quite why it is, maybe it's just the separation from my parents, or maybe it's some other reason.  But uhm, I have had an increasingly strong feeling that I didn't want to have things stored in PTN.  That, you know, I mean there were some clothes we're leaving in PTN, but we're going there often enough so that seems to be different.
But to store things there, uhm, I don't know, it just seemed to indicate a certain possessiveness that I guess I wasn't feeling anymore.  I don't know, in any case, I wanted to bring what was left there home, and uhm, take care of it, one way or another.  And I had wanted to do that last summer, and we couldn't bring them home.
But then, one weekend when we were up fairly recently, we hadn't brought much up with us, so there was room in the car to bring them back.  And some of the things I was able to put away, and some we've used, since I brought them back.  But then there are uhm, well, several things.  I can think of 1 salad bowl, and 2 glass bowls, one of which we might use some day as a punch bowl, or something.  So I wouldn't want to give both away.  But I don't know if we'd ever use the salad bowl, because we have some others.  That's 1 reason why that one was up in PTN.  And then I, there were some other things.  And then there were a couple of things that had been gifts to us recently, that I'm sure we'll never use.
But uhm, I don't know, anyway, MSCZ was saying, if we aren't going to use them, or if we haven't used them, or we should look at things, and anything we haven't used in the last year or two, we should give away in some form.  You know, if it's new, maybe give as a gift, or just, you know, ask somebody if they want it, or whatever.  But not to keep it.  And I have a very strong feeling that, you know, can't do that.
And it's not a feeling of, well, somebody gave it to us, we can't just give it away.  Well 1 thing that FEJ gave us that I doubt we'll ever use, I do feel that way about.  Because, I mean, it's just the kind of thing she might ask about some day, and I would feel badly if, you know, we didn't have it in our possession, or something.  She thought it was a nice thing to give us.  And uhm, but anyhow, (Sigh) you know, it's mainly just, not to give away these things that are now our possessions.
And, and then I was thinking, and then there's the feeling I have about saving things in general, that in general, I don't like uhm, you know, just throwing things out.  I like to find a new use for things, s—, that's why I like working with young children, where in the, you know, sort of the arts and crafts program, you can do a lot with, you know, sort of recycling things, or stuff that would otherwise be thrown away, kids love to use for art projects.  And then that makes me feel better.
And uh, I don't know whether it's all part of, I mean, it seems like it would be kind of different.  Uhm, but yet part of it, I don't know, it, you know, part of this other feeling of, (Sigh) keep saving my ideas in case someday I find the answer, the secret or, someday I need something that I won't find unless I've kept all this stuff.  And uhm, (Silence, Sigh, Pause)
Well, then I was just thinking that uh, it must be a mixture of things, because this not liking to throw away, uhm, well it's, I mean, that's even different from the giving away of s—, presents that we find we never use.  Uhm, because that's possessions, and, and this not throwing things away, I don't know whether I would consider it possessions.  If somebody said, I have a use for that, I would be very happy to give it to them.  I just don't like throwing things away that will just be burned or, I don't know what they do with unburnable stuff, exactly.  But uhm, I don't know, I think I've always felt the wastefulness of our country, and, and so maybe part of it's just a reaction to that.  But, and then my parents were inclined to, you know, save and reuse things, and not be as wasteful as other people were at that time.
And uhm, so I can't separate out what might be a perfectly good attitude, from something that seems like it's a perfectly horrible attitude.  And, and then again I g—, you know, just getting back to what I was thinking about today, I just don't know whether, unless I, I, you know, it's kind of l—, I'm uh, I'm wondering, unless I throw out the stuff lock, stock, and barrel, without even looking at it, am I somehow retaining, you know, some kind of hope, or idea, of finding what I have always felt is missing some day.
Or uhm, (Sigh, Pause) and i—, and to an extent, it's also not trusting my thinking.  Uhm, you know, not trusting that I can go into a new situation, because you know, I'll think, well, maybe next year I won't be teaching, and who knows when I might go back to it, or if I do, or what I'll do.  But in any case, if I go back to this level of teaching, then it might be helpful.  But then I think, but, whatever I go back to it will be different enough so I have to reassess you know, wh—, you know, where I am.  And uhm, the fact I feel this need for even getting these things into a perfectly workable form, means I'm not trusting my ability to think.   And uhm, you know, remember whatever I've worked out that seems worthy of remembering.
Uhm, because I'm, you know, my, for instance, one thing that I'm just thinking about is that I am sure I have a lot of notes, and all this stuff on different types of units, how to develop them, you know, ideas that occurred to me, either that I did do in teaching either at LKC, or at CWG, or that I didn't do, but thought might have been a good idea.  And I'm sure I must have it down in a million different ways, but that essentially come to the same thing, and I'd never do it the same way twice.  So that, you know, why do I need, I must at this point have had enough experience so I don't need that.  In fact, I know I don't, because I haven't looked at this stuff.  But yet there's a feeling that, well, someday I might need it.  So, I can't just throw it out.  (4-minute silence)
I don't know, I still am, you know, it's not puzzled, but it just seems very odd.  Because I was thinking, well, if, well I was thinking of a couple of things.  One was, when I came in uhm, I just, you know, let FYHZ, I think her name is FYHZ, as I recall, know that I was here.  And then I just spoke with her for a minute, and, you know, it was a very brief uhm, pleasant encounter.  But, I don't know, uhm, I guess I must not have that kind of encounter that much, or you know, d—, wouldn't allow myself that kind, that much when I'm at work, because I'd always be busy on my way, to do something very, you know, one idea on my mind, or something.  So, it impressed me, uhm, just, you know, sort of like, that was pleasant.
And then while I was waiting, I was just thinking, well, you know, I could, I mean it w—, it was mostly just that, I came in and uhm, (Sigh) it seemed to me I was just aware of, you know, what was (Laughs) here right now.  I, I didn't have some other idea on my mind, that I was res—, reacting to.  And so then I was thinking, well I could do that next year.  And so then, right at that moment, I was feeling, so I have hope about working with MME and, you know, the whole situation.  Now when I say it, I begin, the hope starts dissipating again.
But anyway, then I think, and, and so then when I think about this stuff at home, uhm, you know, my feeling is sort of, well if I, if it weren't there, I wouldn't miss it.  But since it is there, what do I do?  Because I just can't seem to throw it out.  And, you know, it's kind of like the feeling, I'm so glad that I didn't accumulate a lot from last year.  Uhm, (Sigh), and you know, a li—, it also applies somewhat, to the year before.
Uhm, so I don't miss it, the fact I didn't accumulate it.  Or else I already, I don't know, I don't know, just somehow, I didn't accumulate it.  Uhm, you know, certainly, anyway, as much as I did at LKC.  And so I'm so glad because there isn't that, (Sigh) there isn't more to take care of.  But uhm, I don't know, it just seems like, if I feel that way, then I should be able to just throw it all out.  (Pause)
And I guess I, I'm still wondering, because of this uhm, you know, making that discovery, not too long before I came here, of (Sigh) you know, a whole new selection of stuff that I hadn't remembered having re—, at least I had hoped I had somehow taken care of, and that the remainder of it was what I had found and, and been looking through, the last day or two.
Uhm, you know, and then I began to, uh, am I just tricking myself?  You know, because before I had thought, well there isn't so much, so I'll just take care of it in the way I'd always been thinking.  And then it will be done, and I won't let myself accumulate it again.  But uhm, and you know, and I felt better.  But then, after I found this other stuff, and I really, you know, just said, "Oh, I can't stand it!"  And then I thought, well, was I just tricking myself before into thinking everything would be alright?  And, because I don't feel everything would be all right if I still feel I'm, you know, going to find a secret somewhere in a pile of stuff.
Or uhm, (Pause) and also, when I can finally come to terms with, you know, I mean, it's always sort of (Sigh) step by step, and it just seems like it takes forever.  But uhm, after I left here, I was just feeling, well, that article I'd mentioned here yesterday by the girl in my sister's class.  It was, after talking about it here, very clear to me that there was just no reason to keep it.  And when I got home, I threw it out, and I felt good.  And I continued to feel good about having thrown it out.  I mean, it was so small.  But sometimes I've thrown something out, and then changed my mind and retrieved it again.  And, and I threw this in, in a place where, I don't know, it was almost like I wanted to see if, how I'd feel about it later.  Not because I felt, well, I'll probably want to retrieve it, but I just wanted to know I really meant to throw it out.
And uhm, and I don't know, it seems as if I can — you know, I used to keep so many things connected with so many things.  And at this point, uhm, where I seem to have the most trouble is things connected with my teaching.  And uhm — (3-minute silence)
Well, and then I, then I was just thinking about this feeling of, there's so little time left.  And that I had, you know, wanted to comes—, come to terms with it, or do whatever I was going to do with this, you know, these piles, before I stop coming here.  And, you know, it might be really that i, it's just is down to, I wanted to find what I came to find here, uhm, before the end.
But in any case, just now, I was wondering, well, you know, I still do think of it in terms of, if I do—, if I finish here, still, you know, maybe reducing my piles, but still clinging to them, uhm, well this is the way I was feeling last night.  I was feeling very hopeless that, you know, maybe hopeless that I'd never find the secret, I don't know whether that was part of it.  But also, very a—, feeling very much I want to be free of this kind of thing, too.  And I'm not making it worse for myself anymore, but you know, if I can't just completely get free of it before I stop here, I, I'm wondering if I can.
And just now, I, I guess I was just wondering, well maybe it's something that has to continue after I finish.  And then again, I don't know whether I'm tricking myself into really keeping the idea going that, you know, I've lived by.  (3-minute silence)
Well, I was thinking about a couple of things.  One is that there's a closet that I have not yet cleaned, that I want to, you know, just as part of something that I would do, uhm, at least once a year.  And I should do it more, and I hadn't done it, uh, I don't know when was the last time.  But anyway, it was, it's the last thing of, you know, kind of like spring cleaning things that I want to do.  But in the closet are some things that I have kept.  And I've kept them pretty well organized, and I've used them, it's, you know, instead of having a file cabinet I've got a couple of boxes in there, and it's worked pretty well.
But I was just thinking, that lately I have come to question some of the things in there.  And, you know, so when, I was thinking, when I clean the closet, I'll pull them out again, and look it over and see if there are things that really I shouldn't be keeping.  And then I thought, well, this is just getting to be ridiculous, because, you know, there literally, is not enough time left before we go to PTN to do, do all this.  And so again, you know, just the way I was just thinking, maybe it is ridiculous of me to think I have to get every last thing done before I finish here.  Because somehow, I associate it with, if I don't do it before I finish here, I will never do it.
And uhm, I don't know, since now I really question it, I, I would hope I would really do it.  Although, if I put things back in the closet, which I'll have to do, otherwise MSCZ would go out of his mind, I might just sort of, oh well, I'll do it some other time, you know, take that attitude.  And I don't know when I'd do it.
But uhm, and then I was thinking of the test, because one of the folders that I had in there was material on uhm, tests that we'd given at LKC, we'd experimented with, or things I'd just picked up around.  I don't know.  And I had used some of that material to make up the tests that I had used last year.  And just now, I was thinking about that, and thinking of the work I went through to make my own test.  And, you know, why should I make up my own test, and not use one already made?  Except, none of them were quite what I wanted.  But there might have been something, so I wouldn't have had to go to all that work.
And then I was thinking anyway, what did that test really tell me that I didn't already know.  And uh, in most cases, I don't think it really told me much that I really didn't already know, except I didn't trust what I already knew about each of the children.  Uhm, you know, I didn't trust that I knew it witho—, the test kind of was the authority, you know, th, that proved what I knew, or something like that.
And uhm, I think I did the test partly because of something FSL had said.  It was not something I had originally planned to do myself.  But the idea came from her.  But then I just, you know, took it out of all limits that she had been talking about it.  And, you know, then it became the proof of something that I already knew, or I don't know.  I, anyway I don't feel I used it in a useful way, and it took a lot of my time, and the whole fall became very unpleasant because of it.  You know, in, in the fact I felt this compulsion to test every child and get it done before I had conferences with the parents.  And it was hard to work it in, because it was, it took awhile with the children.  And uhm, I don't know, I just, (Sigh) I guess I'm just wondering why'd I even do it.  (3-minute silence)
I don't know, and then I just thought of the fact that when I — I think it was this morning. Maybe I've had this feeling about a couple of nights.  But I think it was this morning.  When I woke up I just thought, I must have been dreaming every single minute that I was asleep, practically.  Because I just had this feeling, or, you know, vague, I wasn't remembering any specific dream, but just sort of a vague remembrance of thinking a lot of things had happened that I realized were dreams.
And uhm, the only thing that I could remember specifically, and it might have been from another night and not last night, was uhm, when I opened the refrigerator door, I thought, oh, I must have dreamt at some point, about trying to find more maple sugar, b—, syrup.  Because uhm, FSOZ has been liking some kind of, you know, waffles, pancakes, or something, in the morning, lately.  And we had had a supply from a long time ago, and it's pretty well used up.  And so I suppose it was on my mind, well what will we get when that's used up.  Although I'm sure FSO wouldn't mind what I could buy in the store, but, and anyhow, somehow I must have had a dream about uhm, getting more syrup.  And I don't know what other dreams I've had.
ANALYST:   So, what does maple syrup mean to you?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm, (Sigh) I don't really know, except I, the only thing that could be of importance that I can think of now, is that the syrup we had was uhm, well I think this one was PKWL syrup, but you know, I'm used to usually having PTN maple syrup, which is, you know, far superior to stuff you can just buy around in stores here.  And so I guess my feeling is, if I can't have the best, I don't want any.  I don't like the stuff that you can buy around here, and it's not worth it to eat the pancakes, whatever.  Though generally, I don't eat them now, anyhow.  But uhm, you know, my feeling just is, y—, to get the best syrup.  And that's the only thing I can think of.  Uhm —
ANALYST:   And what's important about that idea?
PATIENT:  Well, then I think, well, I won't settle for anything less than the best.  What I consider the best, or uhm, something that's hard to get.  Well it isn't, y, you know I think, well that has been my feeling about it, being hard to get.  But it isn't really, in that, when we go to PTN it'll be easy to get.  We can just go somewhere and get it.  And we can certainly b—, you know, get along with whatever we have, until we go to PTN.  So, and then the other thing is, that it's expensive.  So maybe that, I sort of put off facing that we're really going to buy some, if we're going to buy it.  Because it is kind of expensive.  But uhm, it does seem as if I think of it in the same terms as I would think of getting a penis.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Well, only, in this case it was, ostensibly, for FSO.
PATIENT:  Yeah, except I do think she probably wouldn't care.  It's my caring what I have in the house, what I serve.  (Pause) I know, because then I think, well, are you suggesting that, am I going to transfer my attempt to get a penis onto FSO?  To the extent that I don't, well I don't know, I mean, I, it would be my continuing it really.  Only I would pretend I wasn't.  Uhm — (Pause)
ANALYST:   Well, our time's up.
