Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So we had a family breakfast this morning at school. I get there and I'm even running a little late and my family's not there. Jess had a flat tire. But Ian won an award at school.
THERAPIST: Rock on. Congratulations. How does one begin to do that?
CLIENT: I don't know. You misbehave a lot in the beginning of the school year and then - one year in summer camp I won an award and that was one of three major awards, one of them was Best Behavior and I was in the running for that. And they said that I would probably be happier winning the other award. It's a big trophy but I was pretty embarrassed by it. So you just - for four weeks up you beat up other kids for four weeks and then you stop beating them up for another four weeks and you win the award. There was really only one kid and I didn't beat him up, just hit him once or twice. I said don't cross this line.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: He crossed it. I was also being encouraged by the counselor.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: So, yes. You ask after four weeks you could. Didn't fit in. So, Jess, I gave all of her the opportunity to do all the IRS paperwork and it hasn't been done yet. And I gave her all the information she wanted from me two days ago. And she has a brief that was due last Friday that she's been working on. And I think Monday's the day that the bank releases the funds. [00:02:11]
THERAPIST: Right, I remember you saying that...
CLIENT: And I texted her. I said I forgot to ask you about the IRS paperwork. She's like oh I'm still working on my brief. And then she said if you could pick up Ian, I would have more time, a couple more hours. And I told her yesterday that I have a closing today at one. Cutting it kind of close. I'm in Wakefield at 1:00 doing a closing and I get to Plymouth at 2:30 to pick him up. So I said why are you bringing it up again? She's like, what did she say? She says she didn't mean it to be inflammatory. She's just saying she's got more things to do than time. And I replied I had a side to the same problem. And I explained to her that that was two months rent. And I spent another month's rent on the new office and that leaves me three months' rent in the hole. And she replied that she'd try to get the paperwork to her lawyer today. So I guilted her into it. I still think it's too late. I don't know even if they receive the money if they'll return it.
But just all kinds of shit; it's getting fucked up. My taxes were fucked up. They left off Lucille, so that's not only a dependent but her childcare expenses, which literally cut my state income tax in half. And my - they said they e-mailed them to me on the 17th but I never got the e-mail. So they have some extra envelopes dated for the 17th and they were supposed to give them to me and when they sent me the returns they didn't include those envelopes. So now I'm going to get a penalty for both tax returns for late filing, which is a hefty penalty. And if you got rid of all the penalties - you know, this is the thing. If the IRS would give up on the penalties and interest, I'd have a much better chance of paying the taxes. But the penalties and interest are so fucking ridiculous. And, I don't know. [00:05:00]
So that got fucked up, so I sent a check with the state taxes. It was only $300 because they'll only enter into an agreement with you if you have two years of back taxes. If they have three years, they won't enter into an agreement with you. So I paid this year, so I would only have two years so I can still do it. And then Jess gets paid by money that's funded through the state, and the company who pays her has run out of money. And there's all this healthcare legislation that they're working on and they won't get to the supplemental budget until June. So she's not going to get paid for two months. And she's crying on the phone, I'm like can you borrow the money from your parents and she just said no, which is fucking bullshit. She's just - she doesn't want anybody to give her help, she doesn't want to ask for help. But she'll be the first one to complain that oh, no one's helping me out. I don't like getting gifts but when she gets crappy gifts she complains that she got crappy gifts. [00:06:28]
I'm sort of - I'm busier than I have been. I've got closings at least. On Tuesday night I went to - I'm on the Community Board for the Bank, the bank that took over the other Bank. I was actually kind of startled. They did this presentation, they had the CEO of the bank was there, the highest head of the state was there and it was a really nice, polished presentation. Everything sounded good. They seemed to be saying the right things, doing the right things. And of course I'm bitter because I got the rug pulled out from under me on the closing.
THERAPIST: Yes, it used to be the [inaudible] Bank, which had said you were up for a closing.
CLIENT: Yes, so I really saw this as an opportunity to either meet and/or get the name of the person I needed to call or e-mail about how do I get back on the closing list. And they wanted people's opinions, that's what the Community Board does is it advises. So this general practice lawyer from, I don't even remember where he's from - or something like that - just started laying into them about opting in and just all this paperwork they got at the beginning. And the CEO answered that they had to do it for most likely for regulatory reasons, but people just started going around the table ripping them. Just - and I was kind of shocked I mean but that's what they wanted to hear. [00:08:03]
So no one else raised their hand, so I raised my hand. I said I used to do closings for the bank and the entire mortgage department left and you've gone to a system now where instead of having loan officers represent at the bank, you have someone in the bank who has no experience, like the branch manager, doing mortgages. I go as a business partner of the bank, how am I supposed to give you business if I can't trust - I mean you've changed the system on me here. And the growth manager who's in charge of loan originations, she didn't hear my discussion but she came over and talked to me afterwards and set up a meeting with me, her and the guy who's head of mortgages on Tuesday. And the head of the state came over and thanked me for my critique.
THERAPIST: Oh good. [So I'm proud of you.] (ph)
CLIENT: I don't know where it came from but I just was like - so that was kind of good. She said she doesn't know if it was a closed list or open list so there's no guarantee. They're interested in my critiques of the bank. This isn't about getting me signed up to do closings. But this is my opportunity to, if I'm going to get closings, this is my shot.
THERAPIST: Right. So what does that mean, an open list or a closed list?
CLIENT: An open list means that they're adding attorneys or they're letting - will let attorneys - if an attorney refers someone to the bank, that attorney can do the closing. But even on a closed list you still can get on. I'm kind of fudging it by saying that I referred business to the Bank. I did but not a whole lot. the Bank had pretty high standards so it wasn't easy to get a loan from them unless you had perfect credit, perfect income, everything worked out right. But I did have some one or two clients who needed a bank and went and talked to a mortgage broker. You mention mortgage broker and they freak out. So I referred them to one of the loan officers there. [00:10:44]
And Tuesday was just a fucking crazy day because I went to the registry to do a rush title and I couldn't find - the guy who owns the property currently is dead. So it's in his estate and I couldn't find him in the computer. I ran into him, I ran him here, I ran him there, all the surrounding counties, but I didn't think to run him in there. And when they sent over the, they sent me the proposed deed and it said Probate Number and then gave the - and I got the file, whatever, and just ignoring it thinking maybe. So at 1:00 with a 4:15 meeting at the bank, I hopped in my car and drove there. Now I'm getting paid $175 for this title to get the paperwork for this guy's estate and then drive in rush-hour traffic. By the time I got out there...
THERAPIST: Right it's very clear $175 only covers the gas. [00:12:10].
CLIENT: Yes. And so I was a little flustered and it's just another one of these things like I kind of - my days are just so, they're so disjointed and I'm not sure what I should be doing. I get up to the office in Pembroke and I don't have a desk and shit's everywhere and I don't know where stuff is. I feel like I've got more work to do than I really have and, I don't know. Just, I'm just all over the place. I'm being pulled in kind of a lot of different directions at once.
The dog's fucking driving me nuts. He's pissing and shitting in the house all day long, pissing in the cage. He - like at 3:00 in the morning he went and shit in the house. So I got up to pee and he had jumped in bed and that's what he was doing was going to the bathroom. And then like 6:00 in the morning he wakes me up, he's shaking and crying. I don't know what to fucking do with this dog. And so I go and I brush my teeth and I walk out and I catch him peeing in the living room. I was what the fuck you doing? No, no, no. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. No.
I mean I can't - my entire existence in my apartment because I don't have a TV, I'm literally just cleaning up piss and shit from the living room, cleaning out the bottom of his cage that is full of piss and it's not just piss. It's piss full of saliva, so it doesn't sop up, because he's chewing on the bars and just drooling all over. And so it's kind of hard to explain, just it's this viscose yellow blob that I literally got to pick the tray up and pour it in the trashcan. And at least I got smart and put some paper down, so at least it'll be a little easier to clean up this time. I just pull up all the newspaper out of there. Hopefully that'll sop everything up. [00:14:34]
I've got to find newspapers because I took flyers and I don't know if it's worth it to go spend money on pee pads but with Jess not having any money coming in, I don't know. She has all these clients I'm sending bills out to and she doesn't have retainers on any of them. It's just like Jess you're not going to get paid. Why should these people pay you? You don't call them up and say hey I can't work on your case because you owe me money; you're not going to do that. Me sending them a bill every month isn't going to make them say oh boy I'd better pay Jess. She had one client she had a $500 retainer on. She blew through that in a month and so. She's not going to stop working for the guy; she's not going to ask him for another retainer. Our agreements say that as for a dollar amount, we're going to ask you to replenish your retainer.
So I don't know what's going to happen over the two months. She called the Attorney General's hotline, says that even though it takes six weeks to get - foreclosure hotline - even though it takes six weeks to assign specialists to you, that they can help us negotiate the modification. And if we do get turned down for the modification they can help negotiate with the bank, as well as if there's a sale date, then we can call them and they'll intervene. So at least Jess has led - I didn't respond to that e-mail but at least I think she's probably less worried about getting kicked out of the house right now because the bank was part of the sale and then we called the Attorney General. [00:16:35]
I mean it's ridiculous the stuff they're asking for. We've been doing this thing for months and used everything in my power to be nice and not yell and scream over the phone. Just, this is ridiculous. The guy calls me and it's always when I'm not - I can't pick up the phone and when you do pick up the phone it's a 20 minute phone call because of all the disclosures he's got to give you. I have to let you know that this is an attempt a debt. I pretty much - you can repeat it with him. This phone call's being recorded for quality assurance whose purpose is...
THERAPIST: [00:17:13]?
CLIENT: Yes. It always ends the same way. We want to find a way to keep you in your house. You want to find a way for me to keep sending you money is what you want to do. Nothing's getting rectified and I'm probably going to be making money and I'm basically going to be paying Jess's bills. My health insurance in June is going up from $1220 to $1500 and something.
THERAPIST: Is that for family?
CLIENT: Yes. It's like they're talking about how nobody's health insurance premiums are going out, everything's working out. There's new cost control measures and what not. Then why is mine going up 20 percent? [00:18:12]
THERAPIST: Little, yes, increases.
CLIENT: It's just ridiculous. When I first started this health insurance, and this was a family plan, it was $600 and something, no deductible. I'm now on a deductible plan and the copays were only $10. That was six years ago. This is unfucking real. I haven't even told Jess about that. It's a mess. Just...
THERAPIST: I think that even when things are looking a little brighter, my goodness. I guess that gets so quickly over [inaudible at 00:19:11] by - it's like a drop in the...
CLIENT: Yes, it's like a band-aid on an open wound. I did ride my bike to Handball last night, though. I was sore getting up this morning.
THERAPIST: I would be.
CLIENT: It was okay. I'm really having problems with my throws. My shoulder was fucked up last year so that's really affected how I throw. I don't know. It's just exercise. Keep me from having a hard time. Lose all this weight I've been put on. I downloaded all my transactions; it was McDonalds, McDonalds, McDonalds, McDonalds, McDonalds. I'm like I eat a lot of fucking McDonalds. No wonder I'm so fat. You don't eat McDonalds; you're thin. You also work out. Probably some good spinning classes, to power yoga.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Pilates?
THERAPIST: No. [00:20:18]
CLIENT: Have a personal trainer?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Kelly Ripa does. According to her interview in Good Housekeeping.
THERAPIST: Oh really, she has a personal trainer?
CLIENT: Yes. Few days a week.
THERAPIST: One of the few differences between Kelly Ripa and myself.
CLIENT: I felt bad like this morning. I'm reading the magazines in your waiting room...
THERAPIST: Gee, I know we're serious, but...
CLIENT: I've got a closing at 1:00; I still don't have my docs. They haven't approved my HUD, they made changes to the HUD; I've got to make those changes and send it to them. You know, it's just nothing's coming easy. Nothing. She told me over an hour ago that I'd have them in 45 minutes. Maybe they've come through. I don't know. Please remove the lender credit; that was my error in applying this. Please resend HUD for approval. Fucking 24 hours later she picks up her mistake and I don't get the docs until she gets her thing. Fuck. At least I didn't have any mistakes. [00:22:11]
THERAPIST: So now what has to happen? The closing's at one.
CLIENT: Yes, so I have to...
THERAPIST: Send the closing documents so there's stuff that has to get signed.
CLIENT: Well they have, again, they haven't - they won't send those to me until they approve the settlement statement, the numbers. So I had to get that HUD approved and then they'll send me a link to the documents, which I have to print out. And I've got to swing by Staples to make copies for the borrower, all within an hour and a half, basically.
THERAPIST: So you've got to send her the corrected things, she's got to look that over, then she'll send you a link of the docs, then you have to stop at a Staples to print out copies of all the docs.
CLIENT: Well I print them out in the office, but then I've got to go and make copies for the borrower, because they're going to sign and I'm going to keep those. So it's just - if I'm running too late I'll just tell them at the table I can scan these and e-mail them to you, or I can overnight documents, I don't know. They never make it easy.
THERAPIST: Yes, we're talking about within the course of two hours.
CLIENT: Some of them will send the docs knowing that he just needs to make one small change, but I don't know if she's going to do that or not. These banks, they suck. They totally suck. They all suck, they really do. Everyone's gone out of business, there's only a handful of lenders left. That's why if I get these closings, they're probably like the other Bank, much easier, you know what to expect, and you get the docs well in advance of closing.
THERAPIST: I get it. They're much more competent. [00:24:23]
CLIENT: At least the borrower's at home. So if I'm late I can call him and say hey I'm late. I'm not meeting him, sitting in my office or whatever. They're at home watching Kelly Ripa.
THERAPIST: Yes, talk about her personal trainer.
CLIENT: Yes, and her kids, reading habits. I was working for a firm. There were times I'd stress out about it, then I just got to the point where I didn't care anymore so I didn't stress out about being late. But it's hard for me to not stress out about being late because I've got to make up a lie. I can't call up and say hey the lender fucked up and didn't give me the documents until just a moment ago. I'll say oh there were some technical problems and they were late giving me the docs and I'm putting them together now. That's where the - if they were meeting me at the office then it wouldn't be a problem because I don't have to worry about travel time. But I've got to travel. One of the options is to scan all the documents and print them out, instead of trying to go to Staples. That might be - work better. [00:26:15]
THERAPIST: Oh you have them electronically from the bank?
CLIENT: I can reprint them out and try and - the thing is they're not all...
THERAPIST: You can't just print out multiple copies?
CLIENT: I could, but it's not like they just print you - they print to - it's more than just...
THERAPIST: Complicated?
CLIENT: Yes. I probably will do that. I've done it like that before. I don't know. Just they suck. Totally suck. Hopefully soccer gets rained out today. We're having a soccer party afterwards. I have a title that's due today that I haven't had a chance to really even start. Probably has to do that tomorrow. Soccer hopefully gets cancelled. I've got a birthday party, a Cinco de Mayo birthday party to go to.
THERAPIST: For - it's a kids party or grown up?
CLIENT: Grown up party. Bar-be-queing, [inaudible at 00:27:27]. Yes, really sketchy place.
THERAPIST: Really? I thought it was like a...
CLIENT: Hip, trendy, your neighbors live in a crack house, yes.
THERAPIST: Oh really? Okay.
CLIENT: I don't know. It's like from outside it's like a nice, triple-decker, condos all fixed up. And then there's a crack house right next to it. It's like trendy bar, barbershop. Money hashing place, trendy bar, seedy chiropractor, fast food Chinese place. You just look inside and you're like I wouldn't eat. There'll be another trendy bar. Really bizarre. And then there's cop cars whizzing by every moment with their sirens on, the occasional gunshot - okay there's no gunshots but... [00:28:42]
THERAPIST: It dramatized it. What party - who's?
CLIENT: A woman I play Handball with. Her name's I'Hara, they call her Harry; I call her Harry. Cinco de Harry.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes. Very...
THERAPIST: Catchy.
CLIENT: Yes. So I'll eat hotdogs, drink more than I should. [Phone rings] Who do you think that is?
THERAPIST: I don't know.
CLIENT: Oh God, I just want to go to sleep. I want to just - and I can't because of the fucking dog, I can't lie in bed. And I mean now getting up early doesn't make a difference. He's already pissed and shit all over the place. I think the vet's coming next week. And this new medication has something to do with it because his poops are looser and they're different and he's peeing differently and... [00:30:08]
THERAPIST: What's the medication for?
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:30:11] anxiety. He's on some tricyclic antidepressant, Chloromapazine (ph) or something like that, Chloromapazine (ph). I don't know...
THERAPIST: Neuphamine (ph) and Chlora.
CLIENT: I was thinking about start taking some of see what happens - if it helped me. Probably shouldn't do that though.
THERAPIST: Probably shouldn't do that.
CLIENT: He seems like much calmer now. When he used to see dogs he'd just, he start going nuts. Now he just whines a little bit and he still gets aggressive with dogs but he's much more calm. But he still - I hear a door slam and he starts shaking and just - and the kids downstairs, the daughter's plaything violin and the mom's helping the daughter practice her violin and the younger kid who has trouble speaking is going mama, mama, mama, mama. And I have no TV so I can't even drown it out. Mama, mama, mama, (humming), mama, mama, mama. And I can't complain about anything because I'm three months behind in rent.
THERAPIST: There's good white noise programs for your iPhone.
CLIENT: Is there?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I just put the headphones on and listen to music, NPR, some sports talk radio, or white noise. Yes, Jess has a machine for Lucille, which puts her to sleep. That's weird. Oh God. They need more information from me. It ain't getting fucking done today. I don't know why she didn't ask me for this shit all at once. She wants tax returns, insurance policy stuff... [00:32:45]
THERAPIST: Is it the IRS stuff?
CLIENT: Yes. Fucking money's gone, fucking forget about it. Take your time; let them levy your accounts again. I mean when am I supposed to fucking do that today? I've got a closing, then fucking soccer practice, then a fucking after-soccer practice game. Tomorrow I've got soccer games, then I've got to do this work thing. Just - the tax returns are at the apartment so I've got to swing by the apartment at some point, get them to the office to scan them or give them to her. It's not getting done today. It's just fucked up. I wonder why the IRS would be asking be asking for the fucking tax returns. They have them. Go into your little computer there and pull them up. They're there.
THERAPIST: They may not [hold them a bit.] (ph)
CLIENT: I'm completely convinced that Tuesday's going to be a complete waste of my time. Because this is just how everything goes. Just...
THERAPIST: You mean the meeting on Tuesday at the bank? [00:34:21]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Maybe it's a little self-protective to think that way.
CLIENT: Thanks. Is that what the book says?
THERAPIST: Is that what the books say?
CLIENT: Doesn't the law of attraction have something to do with this? Like I'm attracted to negativity so that's why everything's negative in my life?
THERAPIST: No. That's not how I think of it anyway.
CLIENT: I'm not really sure about the law, what the law of attraction is but...
THERAPIST: Neither am - I mean there's - yes, I'm not quite sure what you mean by that either.
CLIENT: Oh God.
THERAPIST: No, I think, I think...
CLIENT: What should give me a reason to think that something's going to go right? I mean even if something does go right, something else is going to offset it. I can't have a moment of success or anything without something completely getting in the way of it.
THERAPIST: You mean it's just not possible? [00:36:20]
CLIENT: Yes, it's not possible. If it was possible it would've happened by now. But I've been in a rut that literally can circle the Earth five times. It's one big-assed rut.
THERAPIST: Yes. No question about that.
CLIENT: It just keeps getting deeper and deeper and deeper and harder and harder to pull out of. Do you need to do some research on this one?
THERAPIST: No I think I know an answer to it now, which is that
CLIENT: Just think positive and positive things will happen.
THERAPIST: You know you just took the words right out of my mouth. I've been headed there this whole time.
CLIENT: That's what Jess would say. She would say something like that.
THERAPIST: I think you're really anxious about anything going well because if one thing works then being in a rut as long as you have is seeing some of the light of day and then feeling fucking over again.
CLIENT: I'm like a dog who sits in the doghouse and there's a cat and the cat just draws a line. And I start running r-r-r-r-rump. And the chain tightens up and I'm boom, right in front of the cat; can't get the cat. And the cat's just sitting there, smoking a cigarette, looking at it's nails, drinking tea... [00:38:24]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You've seen those cartoons.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes, sure.
CLIENT: They don't make them like that any more. I don't know if kids today are going to about these (inaudible) or something. I feel like Wile E. Coyote. Can't catch that damn Roadrunner. How I survived an anvil being dropped on my head, though, I do not know.
THERAPIST: Yes, every few minutes. I don't think everything is out of your control and I do think you're very worried about feeling good or hopeful about anything because there are advantages to be inured to disappointment. [00:40:30]
CLIENT: I don't know what they are. It's just how it is. All this time she could've fucking asked me for. Oh come on. She's bugging the fuck out of me. Shit, I just don't have time to get things that everybody needs.
THERAPIST: We can finish up for now.
CLIENT: Yes. I should go.
THERAPIST: Good luck. Hope the closing goes well. [00:41:51]
END TRANSCRIPT
