TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
<b>Session #1<br />
Segment 1 of 6<br />
Session Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time: 12:19 to 12:29</b>
THERAPIST: I have one in there if you want, or would you prefer an audiotape?
CLIENT: I've got a VCR at home.
THERAPIST: Right, okay. I have this on extended play so it will go the full time and I'll give it to you. I ask, if people want to continue doing this that people bring me back the tape because I go through them at such a fast 
clip. Okay... So let me just look at this, this is a depression inventory, and I'll tell you, you have a thirteen 
which is within normal limits.
2:20
THERAPIST: Fifteen or below is within normal limits but clearly from your chart there is some depression there, but 
you're not on medication. This is mild, it's not even within the moderate range. Does that fit with your 
experience? 
CLIENT: [sighs] I'm a little better than I was last week.
THERAPIST: Yeah, well let's begin by your telling me, in your own words, what's been the worst of it and what's brought 
you to treatment? 
CLIENT: Okay. A year ago November my husband, we were married at that point for seventeen and a half years, I 
asked him to move out. He had trouble with drinking that was not able to be controlled... 
2:21
CLIENT: ...and there was not a whole lot left to the marriage. And I think that I dealt with that in my way, but didn't 
give up the things that have happened recently. And then in June, which was about six months after he 
moved out, I started seeing a guy from church.
THERAPIST: What church do you go to?
CLIENT: The Unitarian church in Hartford. And I was feeling a need to be around more people because in the 
marriage, partly I think because of my husband's drinking, we didn't have a lot of friends. I didn't have a 
very wide circle of people that I was in contact with, except on a very surface kind of basis. 
2:22
CLIENT: And I was approaching my birthday and I didn't want to spend my birthday alone. So I called this guy from 
church, who had offered his help to me as chair of the prudential governing board.
THERAPIST: He was?
CLIENT: No I was, I was chair of the governing board. And he- you know him, he's [unintell.] And he had offered to, 
if I wanted some feedback on things I had run up against and he had indicated to me that I was doing a 
good job and then he had asked me, because he was chair of the sabbatical committee, he was putting 
together a service and I had not done a lot of public speaking, he had offered to help me with that. 
2:23
CLIENT: So it was someone that I felt... liked me as a person and someone I might enjoying spending some time 
with. So he couldn't do it on my birthday but the next week we walked around the [unintell] and it was like 
someone had slapped me in the face and woken me up. It was wonderful to have someone to talk to, I 
hadn't had anyone to talk to for a long time. And it got really intense. And then a couple of weeks ago it 
just reached a point where we realized- he had been backing away, but we realized that something was 
not right, that things were not working. And I fell apart, I felt like I was falling apart.  
2:24
CLIENT: I felt as if the rug had been pulled out from under me. [voice quavers]. And part of what has surprised me 
the last five months is that from the very beginning I had felt such intense emotions, I think partly because 
of the contrast that I wasn't allowing myself to feel any emotions before? 
THERAPIST: So this all came alive, all at once?
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think from the very beginning, I didn't understand it then, even in the first couple weeks when I wasn't sure if this was gonna work into a relationship or not I had this knot in my stomach because I felt as if I had found something I didn't want to lose. And... [pauses]
THERAPIST: Just take your time.  
2:25
CLIENT: And I've done some work beforehand about where this is coming from and why but it didn't make it any 
easier at first. I think part of it is that a lot of my investment in that relationship was finding another [sighs] 
role for myself that, for whatever reason that I hope you can help me with, that I don't like myself very well. And I think I have used the roles that I have seen for myself as a way to justify my existence.
THERAPIST: As you said: the wife, the mother... these were the glue. 
2:26
CLIENT: And all of a sudden they're not there any more. I mean, my son who's sixteen, has said basically, "I don't 
need a mother anymore." 
THERAPIST: That's a hard time...
CLIENT: My daughter is still there and she's wonderful and I'm really thankful that she's still there. But I can see in 
the future that that's not gonna be there. She's gonna go off on her own and I want her to. And I think that 
not liking myself has affected a lot of how I have done things for a long time. I think it had to do with 
choosing Burt as someone I wanted to spend time with. I think the most important thing in the beginning 
was that he was someone who thought well of me. And choosing someone for that reason... 
2:27
CLIENT: ...rather than choosing them because of what I saw in them. I think its affected my relationship with my 
son [sighs] because I have felt it important that he love me and respect me as a mother and I think that I 
have not [pauses, sighs]. I think I have done things because I didn't want him to not love me rather than 
done what would have been best for him. And I think that I want to try to figure out why I feel this way. And 
I have a sense too, as if this has come up at all, I've not really wanted to deal with it, or I've not dealt with 
it. And I have at times, sort of sensed myself... 
2:28
CLIENT: ...I feel like I'm walking a line between trying to deal with this stuff and being scared stiff to deal with it and 
wanting to push it back but I know that its something I need to deal with.
THERAPIST: Yeah, this not liking yourself. And let me understand this, this has always been there.
CLIENT: A long time.
THERAPIST: And as long as you're the wife or the mother or in the roles that were cut out for you, you felt some value 
being in those roles, some worth, so that could kind of seal over or cover over those basic feelings about 
yourself. Now those things, which were worthwhile and valuable have shifted and changed. And that was 
the glue, that was protecting you, wasn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah.  
2:29
THERAPIST: From just facing yourself, and your feelings about yourself. And so, once those have changed, and the 
roles are not so clear, there you are. Afraid to be alone, facing yourself. We'll have to explore this and see 
what's going on. As you said, you've been there a long time. Can you give me an example of when you've 
felt bad about yourself, when you noted it? You said you probably noted in earlier on and it probably came 
up in this relationship. But whatever comes to mind.
CLIENT: Well, one thing that indicated to me that it had been there for a long time was an incident that happened 
not that long ago when I was at my mom's. And she had had me for dinner and I was hoping to wash up 
afterwards and I broke a plate by accident.
<b>Segment 2 of 6<br />
Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time: 12:29 to 12:39</b>

CLIENT: And I said, well, my mom and stepdad were sitting in the dining room still, and I went in and said "I'm 
sorry, I broke a plate." and my stepfather said: "Yeah, you did" and my mother said, "well, don't worry 
about washing up, I'll do it." And I just felt like I was sixteen again- like nothing I ever did was good 
enough, why couldn't they just say "that's okay, we know you didn't mean to do it" but that's not what I 
got. I got mad and I walked out of the door for a while and my mom came and found me and...
THERAPIST: What did she say?
CLIENT: She said "are you okay?" and I said no, and tried to explain why I was feeling what I was feeling.
THERAPIST: What did you say?
CLIENT: I don't remember exactly what I said.
THERAPIST: And how did she respond?
CLIENT: I think it was sort of a "well I'm sorry you're upset" and then it was a "well it's okay" kind of thing. 
2:31
THERAPIST: Was it at all soothing?
CLIENT: No. Because she should have done that to begin with. [voice quavers]
THERAPIST: Was it heartfelt when she said it?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: So she did mean it. But somehow she has feelings that are sealed over too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because if you said she still didn't mean it and was being critical that would be quite different.
CLIENT: No, no. She meant it.
THERAPIST: So she did mean it, all right. But there's two things going on here, one is you can see a child's sense of 
self, growing up, can get shame attached to it. And if the parents' responses are absent of reassurance or 
affirmation... and there's another piece. You said you had to get out of there, had to walk out the door, 
that you were afraid.  
2:32
THERAPIST: What were you afraid of then? Because you were having a lot of feelings at that point.
CLIENT: Oh, I was afraid that she would see upset I guess before I could... [sighs] and I was afraid to express the 
feelings I felt having right then and there until I sort of had a chance to think about it. I don't know if I felt 
like I would get angry at her, and I didn't want to get angry at her.
THERAPIST: Well, lets just slow down a moment and just think about it. At that moment when you're sitting there, and 
you think about it. [patient closes eyes and thinks] Does it make you angry?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How do you experience the anger? How do you know you're angry?
CLIENT: [pauses, sighs] 
2:33
THERAPIST: These are hard questions, and usually aren't asked. We don't label our inner experience so well.
CLIENT: No... I think I clench my jaw.
THERAPIST: Mmm. So you clench your jaw.
CLIENT: And I breathe harder...
THERAPIST: Breathe harder...
CLIENT: And I just tighten up inside.
THERAPIST: You tighten up inside. Is there anything else? I don't have any specific answers.
CLIENT: [shrugs] No.
THERAPIST: So... Clench your jaw.
CLIENT: And my fist.
THERAPIST: And your fist. [they laugh]
CLIENT: Not like toward her, but just part of the whole tensing up.
THERAPIST: That's interesting. "not like toward her" but who are you mad at? 
CLIENT: Me. [laughs]
THERAPIST: Oh, you. Are you really?
CLIENT: [laughs nervously] I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's precisely what you're here to find out, isn't it? But logically, who were you mad at.
CLIENT: Well obviously I'm mad at my mother!  
2:34
THERAPIST: Right. But look how quickly... you kind of go like this [motions hand outward] toward her, kind of like this 
[places hands on chest] and then I ask you and you say it's you. So there's this kind of boomerang.
CLIENT: Yeah...
THERAPIST: Your mother does something that's shaming- in the sense that its not reassuring its not affirming. You 
have a lot of shame. [patient sighs] but you also have a lot of healthy anger comes up and then it is felt on 
yourself to a certain degree. You had a very mature and appropriate response. I was just thinking about 
you going out, talking to her and so forth, but we're just walking through. And I want you to pay attention 
for a minute to the physiological arousal. You said breathing harder, and there's some kind of energy 
there. And you had a fist, so there's energy there. 
CLIENT: Oh yeah!
THERAPIST: But you said "clenching of your jaw and tightening." 
CLIENT: [nods] 
2:35
THERAPIST: Your body's tightening. Now what's that, is that anger?
CLIENT: I guess its trying to hold the anger in. 
THERAPIST: Yeah... Exactly, that's what its doing. And so at the same time you're having this rush of feeling, you rein 
yourself in.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. We get [unintell.] in my family growing up. [smiles]
THERAPIST: Right, right. So you learned well, and early to rein your feelings in. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, you know, that often puts a person in a constant battle with themselves. Because life happens, your 
mother says something, you have a natural reaction of not liking it, you have to rein yourself in. Thank 
goodness you said something, but so often we have a natural reaction to just rein ourselves. And then the 
turmoil is inside. I said "who are you mad at?" and you said "me." The child feels it as all on them. So... 
finish your thought. I didn't know if I was [interrupting.]
CLIENT: No.  
2:36
CLIENT: Well, one of the things I've been thinking about in relationship to anger and being young, and wondering if 
a lot of this not liking myself comes from the fact of my relationship with my dad who died when I was 
sixteen. And I can remember at the time feeling confused because the emotion that I felt when he died 
was that I was angry at him for not letting me ever get to know him. Because not only did he die when I 
was young [sighs] but I was not born until he was forty-one and he was sort of of the school that children 
are to be seen and not heard and that mothers raise the children and I hardly ever saw him. He just was 
not a big part of my life. [pauses]
THERAPIST: And that comes up here. As we're talking about this.  
2:37
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah... So it sounds like you're angry with him. What was your last goodbye with him or what was 
happened with him like around his death?
CLIENT: He died of lung cancer and I was away. My second overnight babysitting job over the summer, I was in 
high school, and I came home and I saw him once in the hospital very briefly and I don't remember much 
about it.
THERAPIST: Did you know he was dying for a while?
CLIENT: No, he was only in the hospital for ten days. 
THERAPIST: Really? So they discovered it and then he died ten days later in the hospital. How did you learn about his 
death? 
CLIENT: About his illness? A phone call from my mom over the phone while I was babysitting.
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness, how awful. That was my spontaneous reaction. Was that awful for you?
CLIENT: Yeah, it was hard.
THERAPIST: It brings up some sadness for you right now.
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: Yeah. And what was it like? 
2:38
CLIENT: [sighs] I think maybe because he didn't do feelings very well that I didn't know what I was feeling. So I 
know that there was some sadness there but the thing that stuck with me was the anger with him. It wasn't 
like I wanted to yell and scream at him, it just wasn't fair that he didn't participate enough to let me get to 
know him and now here he was dying. [patient gets increasingly angry]
THERAPIST: And what's underneath that anger?
CLIENT: That he would love me, and he didn't. Enough. [patient chokes up] 
2:39
THERAPIST: And for young girls heart there's such a craving for that, isn't there? 
CLIENT: [sighs]
THERAPIST: Did he ever show it at all to you?
CLIENT: Not that I can remember.
THERAPIST: Really... he was that removed. Not even a tender moment?
CLIENT: [crying] Not that I can remember. I mean there was family times when we did things  
together but it was not showing any real love or affection. I mean, I'm sure there were hugs but I don't 
remember any of them. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: [sighs]
THERAPIST: Did you ever try to reach him? 
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: Did you ever make things or give him a gift?
CLIENT: Oh, probably. When I was little. [wipes tear away]
THERAPIST: Yeah. How heartbreaking.
<b>Segment 3 of 6<br />
Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time:  12:39 to 12:49</b>
CLIENT: I can remember being taken up to his office and being shown around and clearly he was very proud of his 
daughters but...
THERAPIST: His daughters.
CLIENT: Yeah. I had a sister and a little brother.
THERAPIST: You're the oldest.
CLIENT: I'm the oldest.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. And so it was clear that he was proud of you. 
CLIENT: But that wasn't he same thing as loving me. 
THERAPIST: Or showing.
CLIENT: Yeah, sure he did.
THERAPIST: Sure he did... What makes you know, makes you sure he loved you, even though he didn't say it or show 
it.
CLIENT: [sighs] Just because I know how much I love my children and I know that he was a good person who 
worked hard to support his family and stuff and I can't imagine that he didn't love me. [sighs]  
2:41
THERAPIST: And just as he didn't show love, he didn't show hate or dislike or... So again, the sealed over feeling. So 
much is hidden, what a tragedy. Because usually in a life there is pull and focus and there's some 
memories.
CLIENT: [sighs]
THERAPIST: And a moment of tenderness here or there.
CLIENT: HE wasn't ever there.
THERAPIST: He wasn't ever there. He was at work all the time.
CLIENT: We'd get up and go to school, he was a lawyer, a trial lawyer. We'd get up and go to school and then to 
avoid the traffic he'd go in late and then he'd stay late and do his work for the next day to avoid the traffic. 
And he would come home and my mother would feed us, and she'd eat with him later and we might get a 
goodnight kiss or whatever and then up to bed and that was it. 
2:42
CLIENT: Except for weekends because we'd do Sunday dinner together sometimes or we'd go to the park but...
THERAPIST: But no real rapport with your father.
CLIENT: No
THERAPIST: No rapport... That's... extreme, isn't it?
CLIENT: I don't know!
THERAPIST: Well, it's an extreme of a loving father. A basically decent man who works hard and takes care of his 
family, but its so barren, what you describe. I hear these stories all the time of different kinds of problems 
but... Was there any difference between you and any of your siblings? Was he able to relate to his son at 
all? 
2:43
CLIENT: [pause] My brother was only eight  when he died. I think all three of us had feelings of his distance. I think 
that... I don't know if he was any closer to my brother or not. I have a sense that maybe marginally, but 
not a lot.
THERAPIST: And then in contrast to your mother. How was she growing up? I know there was some problems there 
obviously.
CLIENT: Yeah. I did get affection from her but I still have a sense that for one... I don't know how young but junior 
high school age anyway... 
 
2:44 
CLIENT: I can remember trying to do things to please her and I can remember one time, I can't remember exactly 
how old I was probably somewhere between twelve and fifteen or something, that it was my night to do 
the dishes or something. And I had done the dishes and I decided that I would scrub the sink and make it 
just shine, because this as something she would appreciate. And I remember as I was doing it, thinking 
"you're doing this because you want mom to notice it and you're going to be upset if she doesn't" and she 
didn't. And I was crushed. But even then I questioned why I was doing it and...
THERAPIST: That's very insightful, to be able to stand back and look at yourself like that. 
2:45
THERAPIST: But did you ask her? Did you say "Mom, look, look."
CLIENT: I think I waited to she if she did and then she didn't and I said something. And then she did.
THERAPIST: So you had to kind of lead her by the nose and say "notice me, here I am."
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: Right, and what a child craves is to see the face light up without saying "please" in effect. And as adults 
we inevitably have to teach people what we need. But at least in childhood it wouldn't be nuts to at least 
have some shared joy or recognition. You're an awfully strong child to notice those things and say "Mom, 
look."
2:46
THERAPIST: That's pretty effective behavior. But there's a sadness there, such a sadness. And you're directing the 
activity, kind of being a mother to yourself by going to get your mother.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah that's so sad. She was better than him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It makes me wonder if [he?] had a tragedy [unintell.]
CLIENT: Don't think so. I think he distanced himself so much. I probably did in little ways but certainly there's no 
memory like the one with my mother.
THERAPIST: And I wonder if you didn't try hard when you were that big and just gave up. Because you spring from the 
womb trying. You know how children cry for the parent or run up. 
2:47
THERAPIST: They have such open faces and they're looking for the return and so we could well imagine that 
happening. The words that came to me were just that there's a big hole where your father should be, and 
a lot of mourning for your mother as well. And you had therapy before right? Fifty sessions or so?
CLIENT: Right, some of those were in high school, after my dad died. I guess my mother thought that she'd send 
me to a therapist for a while but I don't remember how long. And I can remember vaguely, I don't 
remember much about it, but I can remember even then dealing with issues of self-esteem. And then I've 
been seeing someone since before my ex-husband moved out.  
2:48
CLIENT: Christmas-time two years ago almost. I finally got to the point where I knew that something needed to 
change, so I suggested to him that maybe we needed to see a marriage counselor. And his reaction was 
unbelievable, he said with great bitterness is his voice: "all you want to do is divorce me and take all my 
money" after I had tried to put things back together. So we saw a marriage counselor for a while and I felt 
as if I was doing all the work- he was still drinking, and at one point the marriage counselor suggested that 
maybe... 
2:49
CLIENT: We'd be better off if we both saw counselors of our own for a while. And that's when I started seeing 
Vickey, and that was in August over a year ago, and I've seen her probably an average of twice a month. 
THERAPIST: Has that been helpful?
CLIENT: Some. But I felt as if we weren't getting down to things I needed to get down to.
THERAPIST: Okay. What's been the focus in that treatment? 
CLIENT: [pauses] Well, I think she helped me realize that part of some of the sadness that I had felt had to do with 
not liking myself. But a lot of it has focused on coping with day to day...
<b>Segment 4 of 6<br />
Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time: 12:49 to 12:59</b>
CLIENT: ...things and looking at career changes and dealing with self-image now. But I felt as if there was 
something deeper down that I needed to get to. And I said something maybe a month ago, a couple 
months ago about how I felt as if I needed to figure out why it is I don't like myself in order to [sighs] get 
past it. And she said we weren't there yet, and I feel that's where I need to be.
THERAPIST: So [unintell]. But we know right off from what we've said thus far, that your parents aren't reflecting far 
back, you're not mirroring again and again and again. Your father-
2:51
THERAPIST: -virtually not at all. And your mother wouldn't [unintell]. You would get some response. So how does a 
child learn who they are unless they see the joy in the parents face? How are you when the kids ran into 
the room or cried out to you?
CLIENT: Sometimes I wonder. Especially with how my son is dealing with me in the whole situation right now. 
[sighs] I know that at least when they were young, I think I was very expressive of my feelings for them. I 
nursed both of them for a long time. [pauses]  
2:52
CLIENT: But I worry about the messages, especially that I've sent my son. But I don't know why I deal with them 
differently, but its clear that I do.
THERAPIST: Well, your relationship with your father was much more distant...
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: ...than with your mother. You're going to have different reactions from men and women. 
CLIENT: One of the things that I did was, and I sometimes wonder now- I think this is a good thing that I've had a 
hard time dealing with, is with my son is I always said I would never just say "because I said so"- you 
know? That they were always allowed to give me reasons and things like that, and so I think that both my 
kids are very independent. Which is good... 
2:53
CLIENT: ...but I think that I'm having trouble dealing with- my son's name is Darren, with Darren's... with what I've 
created as far as independence goes. [laughs]
THERAPIST: I think that's harder for a mother- for a single mother, that's very hard. With adolescent boys.
CLIENT: He's living with his dad right now.
THERAPIST: Does that make it a little easier for you?
CLIENT: Probably. Well, in some ways says and in some ways no.
THERAPIST: So, getting back to your sense of self- you said you were probably better with him early on, and I wonder if 
your parents were able to be tender with the two of you, more so when you were very young. Three of 
you. [therapist corrects herself] Because you [had?] a lot of strength.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think my mom was, I don't think my dad was ever.
THERAPIST: Did you ever notice him with your brother?
CLIENT: No. 
2:54
THERAPIST: With the baby? Not at all. Such a caricature.
CLIENT: My dad's belief was that it was the mother's job to raise the children until they were twelve, and then the 
dad's supposed to take over.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. And he died.
CLIENT: Yeah. And he tried, I can remember birds and bees brief type talk when I was probably fourteen or fifteen.
THERAPIST: So he gave you the birds and bees talk, really? Rather than your mother?
CLIENT: [nods in agreement] Mm-hmm. Well this was a father's role. This was part of what the father was 
supposed to do. At which point I knew it all anyway- what he was trying to tell me. And at that point, forget 
it, you have lost your chance to be my father I think was how I felt! [throws up arms in frustration] 
THERAPIST: You've lost your chance to be my father.
CLIENT: There was no connection and in order to have that kind of conversation...
THERAPIST: I hear some some sadness in that?
CLIENT: Yeah, there is.
THERAPIST: Yeah, your face looks so sad, brimming over. 
2:55
THERAPIST: But by the time he tried to do something...
CLIENT: It was too late!
THERAPIST: ...you had so much anger covering up all that longing. Was it really too late?
CLIENT: [sighs] Maybe if he'd lived it wouldn't have been, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah...
CLIENT: But I don't have a very close relationship with my mother right now either. And I've thought about [sighs] 
trying to connect more with her and I don't know if I can. I don't know if she would be open to it, I don't 
think she still does feelings very well. 
THERAPIST: Well, that's something we're going to have to look at but after so many years of distance, look at the 
anger. "He lost his chance to be my father." And then he died two years later.  
2:56
THERAPIST: And I wonder what must have been in your heart before he died- so many feelings. You saw him briefly in 
the hospital before he died. What do you remember of it, it sounds scary?
 
CLIENT: Not a whole lot. I don't remember anything that was said, I remember him looking very weak and very sick 
in the hospital bed. 
THERAPIST: Yeah... And did he look at you?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think we did have some conversation. What it was, I don't remember.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: The words don't stand out to me.
THERAPIST: What feelings stand out?
CLIENT: [pauses] I think there was a sense then again maybe that he loved me and that he was sad to leave. But 
again by then it was too late. [choking up again]  
2:57
CLIENT: I didn't know how to accept those feelings that hadn't been offered before.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh, sure. You had no practice. But if we just stay with that right now, how would you have liked to 
accept those feelings?
CLIENT: [sighs] I think I would have wanted to get mad at him. I would have wanted him to know how mad I was 
that he had never been there before. 
THERAPIST: Yeah... You needed to have a father and have him here. What was in you? So let's hear what would you 
have wanted to say if you could have just let it out, let all those feelings out. So let's start with the surface. 
You wanted to tell him how mad you were.
CLIENT: [sighs] I don't know if I felt that then, I don't know what I felt.
THERAPIST: But that's what came up now, let's just stay with it. 
2:58
CLIENT: I don't do angry very well, I don't know how to put it into words.
THERAPIST: It's a struggle when you haven't had practice, when you've been denied. But that's what I'm here for. Let's 
just stay with it. Because it just bubbled right up- "I would have wanted to tell him how angry I was." Can 
you imagine his face right here?
CLIENT: [sighs] He would have been really surprised. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, he would have been. But he's a trial lawyer- he's a tough guy. It really doesn't matter what he would 
have thought or felt at a trial.
CLIENT: [sighs] Yeah it does! It does matter.
THERAPIST: In what way?
CLIENT: [sighs] Because I think that he would have been [sighs] I think that he did love me, I think I would have 
hurt him if I let him know how angry I was.  
2:59
CLIENT: And I don't like to hurt people.
THERAPIST: So, in that situation sure, but you might have gotten closer too for having done that. Stay with the feelings- 
right now you're acting like a parent, you're protecting him you see? Poor dad... but if you were on your 
deathbed and your son had never told you how angry he was about whatever, would you want him to just 
give that to you? 
CLIENT: Yeah I think so because I think it would be important for him to be able to tell me more than anything else. 
THERAPIST: Exactly. And I wonder if somewhere in your father he could have risen to the occasion. I'm kind of struck 
that he struggled- as un-fatherly as he was he took his responsibility and talked about the birds and bees 
which must have been torturous-
CLIENT: It probably was. [laughs]
THERAPIST: ...because he couldn't deal with feelings. 
<b>Segment 5 of 6<br />
Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time: 12:59 to 13:09</b>
THERAPIST: So it shows some strength and some resolve there. And it's tragic in its enactment but still. There's 
something there of substance, so let's trust that for a moment and give you a father to bat up against. 
What would you want to say from the bottom of your heart to this man? There's so much anger right at the 
tip of your tongue. 
CLIENT: [sighs, looks pained, crying.] I think it's "Why didn't you pay attention to me? Why don't I have memories 
of sitting in your lap and being helped? Why weren't you ever around? And why didn't you teach me how 
to feel? And how to deal with feelings?" And I say that now as a grownup I don't think I would have said 
that then.
THERAPIST: Yeah...but you might be surprised. If kids are allowed to just pour it out. 
3:01
CLIENT: [Sighs]
THERAPIST: But you just have an understanding of this. Why weren't you there? What would he have said? Imagine 
his face while you were there. Were you sitting by the bed or by the bed...
CLIENT: I was standing by the bed.
THERAPIST: You were standing. Would you be touching him? 
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: No, why not?
CLIENT: We didn't do touching in our family very often.
THERAPIST: You didn't do touching?
CLIENT: [shakes head no] I think my mom did when we were younger but not as we got older.
THERAPIST: What would you want to do in terms of touching if you were there? Would you want to grab his arm? What's in you? Let's just look at those feelings, there's been so much that's been stuffed for so long. 
CLIENT: Yeah... [sighs] 
3:02
CLIENT: I can't- this is sad too, but I can't picture what I would do in the way of touching. 
THERAPIST: There's something in you. There's a great deal of energy there.
CLIENT: I wouldn't want to shake him because he's old and sick and dying but I think if he weren't sick that's what I'd want to do.
THERAPIST: Of course that's what you'd want to do- shake him.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
THERAPIST: And what would have been appropriate at that moment? There is some shaking you wanted to do.
CLIENT: Wake up! [almost shouting] 
THERAPIST: Wake up...
CLIENT: Look at me I'm here. And there's something big that's missing that we've both lost out on. [almost crying]
THERAPIST: What do think if you were shaking your father- as a fantasy-  
3:03
THERAPIST: let's make him healthy, before he was ill, if you could have shaken him and said wake up. Because there's 
feeling here. What do you think he would have said?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Did you ever see your father angry?
CLIENT: [sighs, pauses] Yeah. I can remember him being angry when the three of us were  
squabbling in the car on a long car trip and he'd pull over to the side and rant at us, "be quiet, I can't stand 
the noise."
THERAPIST: Did he hit you?
CLIENT: No. We got spanked occasionally, but more by my mom than by my dad because he was never around! 
THERAPIST: Yeah... So he didn't lose his temper in a destructive way. 
3:04
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But he would yell and say "be quiet!" And what would his face look like when he would do that?
CLIENT: Scary. To a little kid. [laughs]
THERAPIST: Right. So do you think he would get angry then? If you shook him and said "wake up, I'm here! Why is 
there such a gap between us?" 
CLIENT: I don't know if he would be angry. If he did get angry I have a sense that he would say he was there, he 
was out making money and providing a good home for the family because that's what fathers did then.
THERAPIST: Yes. That's probably what he'd sound like.
CLIENT: But that wasn't what I needed.
THERAPIST: So your response would be that's not what I needed. So imagine his face, something in his face on his 
deathbed looking at you. 
3:05
THERAPIST: You must have had so many feelings inside.
CLIENT: [sighs] I don't know what he was feeling because he never told me what he was feeling. [sighs]
THERAPIST: In a way. But in a way that's your blocking, because you...
CLIENT: Well I think he was sad.
THERAPIST: You conveyed that so much. His eyes looked sad. What words do you think would be in his heart if he had 
idea let them out. You're an adult now, you've had children, what words would he have by the look on his 
face because faces reveal so much? 
CLIENT: [sighs, pauses, sighs] I think he did tell me that he loved me. And I think that he was probably sad too in 
some ways that 
3:06
CLIENT: I hope that he was sad that we didn't get to know each other as well as I wish we had. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, you hope that's what was in him. And something in his face- you saw some yearning, and you 
remember him saying he loved you. Some hint of wishing for more.
CLIENT: Yeah. [sighs] 
3:07
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I'm still mad I didn't get it earlier. 
THERAPIST: You were still mad, ad so the anger at this tragic moment. Here is this moment, and the young girl there is 
still angry. I guess your father, near death, might have been able to reach out, and maybe I that time you 
put the wall up.
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: How were you with him. How did you keep that wall up?
CLIENT: [sighs] I think the way I was taught by not showing feelings.
THERAPIST: Yeah, just not showing anything. What does a kid know? You just do what you're told.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And so did you tell him you loved him?
CLIENT: I think so. I don't remember the exact conversation or words, but I have a sense that I did. 
3:08
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: I don't know if that particular visit at that particular time I was aware of the anger yet. I think that came 
after he died. During that time that I was home. Between the time that he died and the funeral before I 
went back to babysitting.
THERAPIST: And then you realize how much anger there was.
CLIENT: Actually I remember it on the day that we thought he would die and were waiting to hear that he was dead. I remember we were taking a walk, I don't remember who it was with, it was an adult, near my house and 
just thinking to myself that I was amazed that I was angry at him.
3:09
CLIENT: I don't think I felt that anger when I was there with him. I think it was there, I don't think it was conscious when I was in the hospital with him. 
THERAPIST: Right, yeah. The anger is distance. Anger can be used all kinds of way, and there is legitimate anger at a distant parent. And then there's the use of anger to distance, when you're really longing for someone. And what I'm hearing is you didn't use the anger in the hospital to distance. You were feeling it deep down but what you used was some kind of walled off, unemotional stance to put a big barrier between at a moment when he might have been reachable. And no fault of your own there, its just a tragic thing. The child doesn't know. 
<b>Segment 6 of 6<br />
Date: 1997-1-03<br />
Time: 13:09 to 13:19</b>
THERAPIST: Just think if you'd had some prompting or some help to not wall off that. I wonder if we could go to what you might have wanted to say and do- lets just stay with that. Don't you wish he could be here now? Because that's so haunting, this big hole. 
CLIENT: I think one of the things that worries me is that [sighs] this hole, or this sadness or whatever that's missing can't get fixed.
THERAPIST: That's not been my experience.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But it does take a sorting through of the feelings.
CLIENT: [sighs]
THERAPIST: And that's what we're doing now.  
3:11
THERAPIST: Let me understand correctly- [you think that] if it didn't happen back then, you're going to carry this void until you die. A lot of people do that. But let's go back and look at all that feelings, they exist in you right now. And in your heart you know what he felt, whether it was all good or bad or a mix that has to be worked through. And it's not a void, people just keep it sealed over, and keep it sealed over, and keep it sealed over and go [unintell]. So what we don't want to do is carry the bottleneck. What I'm hearing is tremendous love there, and tremendous anger at being withheld.
CLIENT: [sighs]  
3:12
CLIENT: Of his love being withheld from me? Tremendous love of him for me? But it didn't feel like it.
THERAPIST: It felt like some love, let's put the right words on it, and tremendous longing in you for him. And on his deathbed he was projecting something to you. And he did form some words before he died. And how hard I wonder was that for him to, after a lifetime of not being [unintell]. [pauses] Where are your thoughts going now? 
3:13
CLIENT: To how hard it was for him. And I guess, I imagine that when he found out that he didn't have very long to live that he had a lot of feelings of regret. And that [sighs] it probably was hard for him but I wish that it hadn't taken something like that for him to get those feelings out.
THERAPIST: That's just such a tragedy, that the culture teaches such repression of feelings. That he had to die before he can say "I love you." 
3:14
THERAPIST: He has to be on death's door. 
CLIENT: I think he'd said it before.
THERAPIST: You think he had said it before. 
CLIENT: Yeah... But somehow the actions didn't fit the words. The fact that he wasn't around to a child, if someone says I love you and it doesn't really mean a whole lot if there's not really the actions and things that back it up.
THERAPIST: Or the mother filling in the blanks. 
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: I was just thinking sometimes mothers help their children to read someone's love when it comes [broken?] 
CLIENT: No, didn't get that.
THERAPIST: Did she ever say how proud your father was of you, or these kinds of things? 
3:15
CLIENT: [sighs] Again, not to a level of where it sank in if she did.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I wonder... There are fathers who do not care about their children and they turn their backs on them and they go off and do things. And if that's the case that has to be faced and grieved. But what I'm hearing is a repressed, hard-working father.
CLIENT: I don't think he knew very well how to show affection for kids. The other thing- I never saw a lot of affection shown between my mother and father. And I think that towards the end of their marriage there wasn't much of a marriage left either.
THERAPIST: Everything kind of dies and shrivels up.  
3:16
THERAPIST: So little priming of the pump, keeping things flowing. But yet he said he loved you more than once.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: So there was something stirring in there.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I knew that he cared about me. But I think that there were enough other messages of "you always have to do your best" and things that, whatever I was doing wasn't enough. The caring was there, but somehow I wasn't living up to expectations or something so didn't... [sighs]
3:17
THERAPIST: So he gave you a feeling you weren't living up to expectations. 
CLIENT: I think both my parents did.
THERAPIST: How did he do that? Both of them do that?
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: But somehow you weren't good enough. That's an awful way to feel.
CLIENT: I can remember getting comments on report cards and progress reports from school saying "Katie is not working up to her potential." I used to hate that because it meant that I wasn't doing good enough. And I think that academics and always doing your best were stressed a lot in the household.  
3:18
CLIENT: And I don't think it was conscious and I don't think it was ever said in any words, but I think I took in "If I did well, then I'd be loved."
THERAPIST: Yeah... 
CLIENT: But I never could do well enough. And I carried that through- that nothing I do ever seems to be enough sometimes, when I'm not having a good day.
THERAPIST: With your kids you mean? 
CLIENT: Well lately with Darren, trying to find a new way to be in a relationship. And having that not work out.  
3:19
CLIENT: And knowing on one level that he's coming from a hard place too and that both of us are just doing the best we can. And he's another person with really high expectations.
THERAPIST: Of you?
CLIENT: Yeah, of anybody. Of himself, of everybody. 
THERAPIST: I see. That's all you need.
CLIENT: So there's some of that. [laughs] That's all I need, I know. 
THERAPIST: That's what you've lived with your whole life. So we need to come back to your father, but let's see how that plays out with Burt and see if that sheds some light on some of your response patterns, but take it back to your father because it sounds like you've played it out in the current time. Like you're just pulling the past forward. Does it seem so?
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

