*TEXT-PV011109  2 August 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Sniff, Sigh, Silence) Well, I'm (Sigh) uhm, I guess I'm just thinking about really being disappointed, uhm, but not really surprised at what happened when MME finally called last night.  And I was just thinking of it in contrast with just a number of small things that came up today, that I, you know, I handled much more easily than I usually do.  And uhm,I would have liked to have felt better about MME's call, but I ended up feeling, you know, perhaps a bit more controlled, or more aware of what I might be feeling, but still, uhm, well I don't know exactly what, upset afterwards and, you know, feeling I wasn't me.
Uhm, and I was (Sigh) in thinking about it, because, you know, I didn't know why he was calling, uhm, so I had to kind of wait for him to tell me why he was calling, and it seemed as if it were just for chatting.  Because he didn't ever say, I'm calling you for this reason.  But (Sigh) h—, h—, you know, so he took the lead just from the fact that he made the call.  And then, he sort of asked me, had I done this, had I done that, had I thought about this, had I, you know, referring to some things we'd talked about.  But, you know, very much as if he were the one in charge, and he was checking up on me.  And he had taken a workshop in QLR methods, and so he was telling me about that a little bit.
But uhm, I don't know, i, it, (Sigh) just his whole way.  Oh, and then at one point we were talking about something to do with some changes, and he said, well, I'll let, leave that to you, you know, in terms of dealing with Mrs BBF, I'll let you be the diplomat, or something.  Well, you know, he has, he doesn't leave anything to me.  Uhm, in a way, and, you know, I get very uptight over something like that.
Because it's, it, I don't know whether I'm reading it in, or whether he really is there assuming certain prerogatives that uhm — and he talks a lot about sharing ideas.  Well, I'm sure we'll have a lot to share — to anything I say, that you know, again, it's uhm, you know, sort of like, OK, OK, don't tell me now, I'm sure we'll have a lot to share.  And it wasn't that I was giving him any ideas.  It was just, you know, something I was saying indicating I didn't really want to talk about it all right then.
But even then, it could be just his attempt to make sure I'm not going to think of him as, you know, some kind of a menial, and in that he won't have any part in the program at all.  But I don't know, it seems like it, there is just an assumption on his part of having control.  And uhm — (Sigh)
ANALYST:   You can't tell him that?
PATIENT:  Well, I don't know, because I keep thinking, well, is it just me, or is it him, or (Laugh) you know, I'm not certain.  Uhm, (Pause) And I know part of my feeling last night, since he didn't have any specific thing in mind, unless he was just curious to know what had h, happened since he left school.  But he didn't say, I'm curious to know what happened after I left school.  It was sort of like a quiz on me, did you do this, did you do that, on all the things we'd talked about.  And uhm, uh, but other than that, there was nothing really sta—, it was just, you know, sort of a strange call.  And I was always wondering sort of well, why did you call?  And my feeling was, —
ANALYST:   Did you ask him?
PATIENT:  No. (Laughs) Well, because I, you know, what I was just going to say is, m, my feeling was, if I said anything, it would be rude, and maybe, you know, I'm wrong on that.  When I talked a little bit about it with MSCZ, he was saying, well, you couldn't have said what was really on your mind, because it would have been rude.  So, but it's true, I could have asked him.
And so I think I'm, you know, depressed too, because I feel as if I let him create (Sigh) this feeling, that then, I assumed he already has, and maybe he wouldn't, if I didn't let him.  But if I'm going to let him, then he will.  And uhm, but even then I, you know, after I hung up the phone, I thought, well, it could have been a lot worse.
But when I really became aware of how much it had affected, me, was, I had wanted to complete going through the stuff that, you know, I'd been looking at yesterday.  And there wasn't (Sigh) that, you know, there was enough left so I had to h—, spend a good hour or so on it last night.  But I could have gotten through it.  And after the call, I still went to do it.
But I became very aware after a while, that I was finding it very difficult to decide what to keep, what to throw away.  And, you know, when I stopped, I realized, I, I just had this feeling — I couldn't say, well, I kept this, and I shouldn't have — but I had this feeling that I had kept a lot things, that if I had looked at it in the afternoon, I would have thrown out.  And uh, you know, that I, I just, well, lost confidence.
And I don't know, you know, because (Sigh) I think maybe this is getting, going at it the wrong way.  But I kept thinking, if he were a woman, then I would know, you know, how to sort project what he's like, what he's thinking, what to say.  Uhm, but since he's a man, I feel as if I, I, I just don't even know what's going on.
ANALYST:   But you do know what's going on.  You described it very clearly, many times.  But it would be different, you say, you could handle him if he were a woman.  So, what makes that difference?  Why can't you put him in his place and just let him know it's your class, not his?
PATIENT:  (Pause, Sigh, Pause) Well, you know, I was just thinking about, first of all, I have a great deal of difficulty even thinking that it's my class, and not ours, you know.  Which in part, he has tried to create that feeling in me.  And uhm, in part, I think I had trouble, unless my assistant came in really kind of green and very much with the attitude of, you know, she just, and it was always a she, that she just had to take direction from me at first, because she'd never done this kind of thing.
Uhm, you know, I wouldn't have completely, I don't know, maybe it's because I was an assistant once, or maybe it's just I have trouble with uhm, assuming authority.  I don't know which it is.  But, you know, I, I, I do have some trouble that way.  But then of course with MME, I have particular trouble, thinking of it as just my class.
Uhm, (Pause, Sniff) and I don't know, there's also, because you know, I think of how I had trouble sometimes with FLMZ, uh, I think I didn't have so much trouble when we disagreed on things, because it was really, I mean, if I and MME disagreed the way FLMZ and I had, then I think I would establish that it was my class too.  You know, somebody has to be the one to make the decision.  And I can't let things go on I don't agree with.
But uhm, even then, you know, I still had trouble dealing with FLMZ, and putting her in her place in other ways, and I don't know, there's something about, you know, when I say I'd find MME easier to deal with if he were a woman, I think that's true, but you know, I wouldn't be quite so upset about this, but I might, you know, still have trouble.  Because putting somebody in their place is not something that I find very easy.
And I don't know whether it's because I have to take a definite position.  And also, I, I think it is, because then I have to assume I may not be liked.  And uh, you know, then I'll have to be there working with somebody everyday who doesn't like me, which, well, with FLMZ I know that (Sigh) influenced some of the things I didn't do.
And I think th, the feeling, you know, with MME too, was very much last night that again, I had this feeling that he was uhm, well this doesn't seem quite right.  W—, the word I think of now, I, but expecting something from me, or uhm, I don't know, that i—, you know, that he wanted some response from me, I guess, is the only way to put it.  And if I didn't make it, then I would feel, well then he wouldn't like me.  And uh, so, you know, it was this conflict of, well, I'm just going to be myself, but I can't be rude.  And some of the things that might have been mostly myself would have been kind of rude, like you know, (Laugh) what I really would like to have said is, "What the hell are you calling for?"
ANALYST:   But what you describe is his being rude.
PATIENT:  Well, —
ANALYST:   Intrusive.
PATIENT:  Yeah, well, intrusive.
ANALYST:   It's rude.
PATIENT:  Well, I certainly know it wo—, if I had been starting working with somebody either, but certainly as an assistant, and you know, i—, perhaps anyway, it would never have occurred to me to call them in the middle of the summer.  And I know when I was working with FHYZ, I always felt it was for her to make that kind of a move, until we knew each other well.  If she needed to speak to me for some reason after school.  I would not call her just to chat.  Uhm, so I suppose I was feeling, well, this is very odd, I, I, I do—, you know, I do—, I don't know if I thought of it as rude.  But uhm, —
ANALYST:   Well, you must have, if you had that response, of what in hell are you calling about?  You know, I mean, that's the indication.
PATIENT:  Well, yeah, except also, I knew, I know something and I, I guess I can't quite know it, or I don't know.  It's just that when we had met uhm, those 2 days after school had ended, he had indicated that he wanted to get together in some form, or, you know, talk, or something, during the summer.  And I had been fairly cool on it.  But I had not, you know, flatly said no.
Uhm, and i—, I had sort of left it sort of, if you want to, okay.  But I hadn't said, you know, go ahead and call me.  But nothing specific had been said.  It was just kind of this thing where, you know, clearly, either it's his enthusiasm for the job, or, you know, this is what I can't quite figure out, whether it's just his enthusiasm, or whether it's his trying to get control by, you know, initiating all these things, or just what.
But when he called, and I wasn't in and got the message, i—, I wasn't surprised.  Uhm, because you know, I, I wouldn't have been surprised if he hadn't too, because then I would have thought, well, he decided that really, anything could wait.  But uhm, well I don't know, I, I know I'm covering up what is really the core of this situation with all these other things that — I don't know if it's that I'm making excuses for him, or for myself, or, uhm — (Silence)
But, you know, w—, the more I think of it, the more I realize, I really, uhm, was annoyed at something else too.  Uhm, I think I wouldn't have been so annoyed, you know, over this other business, if he had just somehow stated why he was calling in some kind of a way that I could more easily deal with, and not force me to ask, which I never did do.
But uhm, also (Sigh) there's a quality to him — and I know I've already mentioned it — that has lead some people to wonder if he's a homosexual.  Because his way of speaking is similar to the way a lot of men do who seem to be flaunting that they are.  I don't know whether they're really homosexuals, or not, but they're flaunting something.  And he talks like that, only i—, I don't know, somebody said once that I think it's just because he's been to private schools, and that's the way they learned to talk.  I don't really know.  All I know is that i—, I don't like hearing uhm, anybody talk that way.
And when he called last night, he stopped doing it quite so heavily after a while.  But at first it was, you know, sort of that uhm, I don't know h—, it's sort of a whiny, uhm, drawn out, I do—, I don't know how to describe it, exactly.  But uhm, I found it very annoying, and I thought, my immediate reaction when I heard that, was oh no, I just uhm, you know, despite all my enthusiasm in the spring, because he was enthusiastic and had good ideas, and so forth.  I thought, I won't be able to work with this person, if this is the way he's going to talk.  And uh, then it, then it did get better, but you know, it was another thing I was annoyed about and then felt I can't say anything.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Maybe it won't work out. I mean, things like that happen.  You describe that at FSO's school.
PATIENT:  Yeah, I guess the reason why, you know, well, I mean I suppose even there the set of 3 teachers that all worked together the year before, so something I, but I still think it was partially due to the death of Mrs RKM's husband that, you know, led her to see things in a way that she wouldn't have at any other time.
But, you know, ri—, (Sigh) I suppose with MME I'm thinking, well, Mrs BBF really left the decision to me.  I don't know what she would have done if I had said absolutely not.  Because at some point she'd got it into her head that she wanted MME to come, and have the man on the staff.  But I think if I had said no, she wouldn't have hired him.  Even if she'd got sort of panicked at not having any other candidates.  Uhm, you know, it's not clear.  Because when she does get panicked about not having other candidates, she'll do things that she says she won't do.  But in any case, I never said no.  And uhm, you know, so it's a situation I created, or, you know, I asked for, really.  And I guess, so then it really bothers me to think, well, I haven't even begun it yet.  Well, you know, it's sort of begun, I suppose, but, and I'm already thinking I don't like it.  (Silence)
ANALYST:   What do you think of a male homosexual of the kind you're describing?  You must have more about that than you've said.
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm, I don't know, because this is not true of MME.  He doesn't walk around in the way that the type I'm t—, you know, otherwise referring to who talk the way MME sometimes seems to do.  But, you know, th, the type that really ex—, I mean, they exaggerate a feminine way of walking, and a feminine way of, you know, and I don't know whether it's really feminine, or it's just that women have done it in the past, but uhm, I don't know, just different facial expressions, and uhm, and, you know, sort of the kittenish, cute, kind of little games between themselves.
And i—, u—, it just seems like, (Sigh) you know, when I say they're flaunting it, i, it does seem as if what they're saying is, we don't have to conform to, you know, whatever anybody thinks is male.  W, we're male, but we're not masculine, and we don't have to uhm, conform to that.  We don't even have to pretend to, on the outside, you know, where the world is seeing us, and then be something different at home, or anything like that.  Th—, you know, they just seem to take pleasure in being as outlandish as possible.
And uhm, I suppose because I have, you know, not that I'd like that anyway, but because I have so much gone the other way, and felt I can't be anything except what's acceptable, uhm, you know, on the outside, and hiding everything.  (Sigh) W—, a—, i—, ju—, you know, I guess, somehow disturbs me, I think, beyond however much I might find it offensive.  (Silence)
But I and, you know, I still get back to thinking about MME a, and thinking, well, maybe it won't work out.  Uhm, I d—, in that case, I would find it hard just to, I suppose, admit to myself I'd made a mistake.  Uhm, but a—, I don't know, the thing that really bothered me last night, and still does, is, I cannot imagine, you know, even after talking about it with you, asking him outright why he was calling, i, in the way the conversation went.  Uhm, and —
ANALYST:   Why not?
 PATIENT:  (Sigh) Well, I don't know, he, you know, said who was calling, and then we just sort of said, how are you, kind of thing.  And then he said he'd been taking a workshop.  And I had known he was thinking of taking one of several.  Uhm, and I suppose I could have then said, well, are you calling to tell me what happened at the workshop?  But, I don't know, it just seemed kind of rude.  He was telling me about it, so why should I say, well, why are you calling?  Uhm, although I was still wondering if that were the (Laughs) reason or not.  So I should have asked.  Or I, I mean, I couldn't think of any way to ask, except, well, now I think, well, if I could have done it in some kind of a jokeful (Sic) form, that would have been acceptable.  But I can never do that kind of thing, if my feelings are as strong as they were.  Uhm,
ANALYST:   Well, and you're feeling is that you resent his intruding and trying to take over.
PATIENT:  And, yeah, but then I, I'm not sure if he's really trying to take over, or if he's just intrusive.  And I think it's different.  Uhm, maybe it's not.  Maybe I'm, I don't know, it's just that I think I'd be inclined to think he was trying to take over when he might not be.  So that uhm, u—, you know, I do—, I don't know.  (Silence)
And really, if I, you know, think about some of the things I did say in the conversation, I, you know, I suppose (Sigh) I was, as directly as I was able to, saying, you know, this is what I have decided.  Because he asked — we had talked about changing the room, and uhm, I had already wanted to change the room, and his idea that — the day h—, the first day he came in after school had ended — he'd got there before me — and he'd already been drawing up a different plan.  Which, again, you know, ev, everybody was sort of overwhelmed by his marching around, saying, well, now how can we change things?
Uhm, but it didn't bother me that much.  You know, maybe because anyway, I was ready to be overwhelmed by him.  But also, I was already thinking of many of the changes that he had decided would be good, so that we were, you know, agreeing.  And uhm, when he left, we had not decided anything final.  And my feeling was, well, I'll just have to move things in the fall and see if it works.  And I wasn't going to move them at that point.
And, so when he as—, that was one of the things he asked me, had I thought more about it.  And I just said, "Well, I just feel the best thing is to move things around and see how we like it."  Uhm, you know, so I stopped any further conversation and I didn't, you know, on that particular thing.  And I said, I do—, (Laughs) in effect, I don't want to talk about it now.
Uhm, and there were a couple of other things that, you know, I sort of did that, but I don't know.  There's still some feeling that I cannot confront him directly.  And he's very smooth, and you know, that's another thing I find difficult to deal with.  Because he is smooth in a conver—, you know, sort of as conversation kind of way.  Not conversational, but uhm, w—, he's just smooth.  I don't know how else to put it.
And uhm, (Pause) I think it's, you know, just partly in reaction to  anybody who's as smooth as he always makes me feel somewhat uncomfortable, because I never feel smooth.  And uh, you know, that just adds to all these other things that (Sigh) I don't know, and then I, you know, last night I was thinking, well, so now what's going to happen?  Am I, is it going to be one of these things where I just think about it, and think about it, and worry about it and try to work out some solution?
And, you know, so then MME, well, I think I was worried about this at one point in the spring.  MME will then become more important to me than MSCZ.  Because, you know, at home I'll be thinking about problems that had come up and that I hadn't dealt with.  And how would I deal with them.  And so, you know, what it would amount to, as much as maybe I didn't like MME, or didn't like what was happening.
ANALYST:   So MME would replace me?
PATIENT:  Yeah, well, you know, it doesn't seem like really that would —
ANALYST:   Well, I mean in the sense of being a central man in your life.
PATIENT:  But I don't, I don't know if I don't want that.  You know, last night what I was thinking about, I was thinking well, I don't want this to happen.  But (Sigh) I don't want to feel this way, either.  And, and this seems to be the way I have always dealt with this kind of feeling, and was inclined to last night.
And uhm, well, I don't know.  And then I think, well, uhm, MSCZ wanted to make love, and you know, that was one of my first thoughts.  I won't be able to, because I, you know, I'll just be, I'm upset, and I'll be thinking about this.  But in the end I did, and it took me a little bit of effort.  But in the end, I was able to just think about MSCZ and making love with him, rather than about this problem with MME.  Although I got back to thinking about it afterwards.  But uhm, I was glad I, you know, at least was able to do that.
But uh, (Sigh) I, you know, I also just think, well this could be, especially when you ask questions like, well did you ask him this, and did you say that, I think, well, it could be so simple.  Uhm —
ANALYST:   Yeah, except, I guess, you see, the point, the one thing that you maybe are missing, is that you are, without realizing it, unwittingly tempted to let him become as central in your life as you have had me become, that in a different way, he would indeed become the central man in your life.  You endow him with all these great characteristics, and superhuman characteristics and qualities, even though your feelings tell you that it doesn't fit.  And so you're as much in awe of him as you have often felt in awe of me, as timid as speaking to him as you used to feel speaking to me.
So, in a number of ways, you have indeed — I think you must be tempted, because you're losing me, to replace me in this indirect way, with him.  And that would account for your inability to uh simply deal with him matter-of-factly.  Because you see him clearly — from your description I don't hear any ambiguities — it's been consistent.  And I think uh, your inhibition is because of this temptation that you're not aware of, to do just what you just said.  Let him become more important than MSCZ, and replace me this way, to hang on to me this way.
PATIENT:  I guess why I have trouble with that is, when I hear you say, y, you know, replace you, I uhm, you know, just feel, well that's no kind of replacement.  Except that I, you know, th—, o—, the only thing would be, I would be in awe of him in a way I'm not of MSCZ.  And uhm, I suppose if I'm still wanting to be in awe of somebody, a male.  But I don't think I really do.  Uhm, or maybe, I, I just am not sure yet.
But, you know, something, when I was on my way here, leaving my building, a man who lives on one of the apartments in the same elevator line was in the elevator.  And we've talked before, and I haven't felt really ill-at-ease with him.  But there was something about the way we were talking today that I, you know, it was just as if we were 2 equals.  And I thought, well, for the first time, without even thinking about it, because you know, often maybe i, if I've talked with him in that way, then I've thought, well I'm not going to simper and be the little cute girl with him, because he's, well, I don't know how old he is, but he has teenage children.  Uhm, and, you know, it just, I didn't think about not doing it, and then afterwards I realized that I hadn't done it.  And then I was glad, o—, it just seemed so much nicer.  And that's when I think, well, so I really don't want to.
ANALYST:   Well, I think if you really don't want to, then you'll be able to deal with MME re, realistically.  Not that it will be easy, from what you've said.  It's this whole quality of awe and uh, attributing to, to him these characteristics that we've been discussing, that you've been attributing to me — Jesus, the Holy Ghost, and God, all rolled into one.
PATIENT:  Uhm, well, aside from, you know, somehow being overwhelmed by him, I don't quite know how, you know, and I also, you know, realize I'm reluctant to think of such words as rude, and intrusive.  And I didn't think of it being sort of out of place, as the people at school put it, you know.  FSL and FLMZ really did, and Mrs BBF, when he'd come around those few days.  Uhm, until they said it, and then it was still, you know, I didn't know quite which way I felt.
Uhm, but other than that, I don't know, I don't quite see how I am giving him these same qualities.  (Pause) Well, except that, you know, I do know that if acted a bit more directly, according to my feelings, I am risking his either disapproving of me, or not liking me, or both.  And it's that that I cannot tolerate.  And I suppose if, you know, if I am holding him in awe, and uhm, wanting him to replace you, or any of these things, you know, th,th, that's always been part of it.  Because otherwise, why should I care.  I mean, it might not be so pleasant, but uhm —
ANALYST:   Right.  Exactly.  That's exactly the right question.  Why should you care, unless you're wanting something from him of the kind you have wanted from me?
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, I was just thinking about that feeling of, you know, thinking, well, there's something he expects from me.  And uhm, I always feel as if I'm not meeting it.  And, I was thinking of it, well, maybe it's more what I'm h, hoping to get from him.  And uhm, —
ANALYST:   That's right.  And I think one of the other things that you have unwittingly been hoping to get from him, well, it's not other, it's an extension of what I just said.  In some way, it seems to me, that last spring, when, you know, accepted him, it was in a, at a point when it was important to you to have a penis of your own.  And I think MME seemed as though he might be a pretty good big enthusiastic penis for you to play with, have all to your own.
PATIENT:  Hmm.
ANALYST:   And he's turned out to be just like that fantasy you had of MSCZ, have a mind of his own too.
PATIENT:  In fact, you know, I, I, I don't know if I ever said this to you, but I've become surer and surer that the reason he decided to, well, if he had a choice, according to FBC, he didn't have a choice between the other school that he'd mentioned he was considering, and us.  Because she knows the girl that heads the class he would have been in.  But uhm, if he did have the choice, from what FBC said about this other girl, I think he chose to work with me because he thought I'd be more manageable, or, you know, more of a pushover.  And uh, well, that just makes me mad, too.  B—, I mean, it makes me mad, because that's my own fault, if he thought that.  (Sniff)
ANALYST:   But you were looking for a big, powerful penis at that time —
PATIENT:  Umhmm.
ANALYST:   — to play with, to own, to possess.
PATIENT:  (Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, our time's up.
