TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Have a seat. I'm just trying to picture where this camera should be so that it will be on you. 
PATIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: All right. I'm sorry about that. Let me turn this on. I think it is running, yeah. Okay, so, how are you?
PATIENT: Oh, I'm good. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah? 
PATIENT: Yeah. I was like, aware of like, different interactions with my boss. Well, he is a quasi boss; he is not like, my real one. At one point we were trying to discuss something and we were in the doorway of his office and it was like, kind of like an intimate moment. And I found myself just like feeling so awkward. Like when you stand to close or you stand too far away and I really felt so unsure of myself. And another time we were in the elevator together and it was another kind of intimate thing, and I was really afraid, like I didn't know what to say, you know, I really felt dumb. 
COUNSELOR: Like you don't have anything to say to him?
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know if I should have my office persona or my own personal, like let myself be personal or stay corporate; like I really didn't know the rules or anything. So I ended up saying nothing. And, you know, that seems to be a problem, the intimacy problem with the boss. And being the right hand person I guess that, I don't know, it affects the relationship. Well, it did with the last boss relationship. 
COUNSELOR: What was it the right hand person, like to the boss you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Can you say some more about that, I'm sorry I didn't track that; what you were saying, "You were right handed?"
PATIENT: Well yes, I am right handed, but an executive assistant is a right hand to the boss and I guess you have to work really closely and learn intimate details of his life I guess too. 
COUNSELOR: And so those were both examples of being close to your boss; what do you think helped you, sort of, be aware of that point?
PATIENT: Well, you said to be aware and I probably would have been aware of it anyway, how stupid I felt and unsure of myself, but, I just thought of it as a good example. 
COUNSELOR: Of what was going on, yeah. Do you remember what it felt like to be in that elevator with him for example? I mean can you think of your feelings. 
3:57
PATIENT: Well, I remember like him going behind me and saying, "Oh my god, we're in the same elevator, what am I going to do? What am I going to say?" Never thinking that, well maybe he really likes me or whatever. 
COUNSELOR: So you were remembering, kind of, some of the negative thoughts that you had about what he might be thinking and remembering that you didn't really have any positive thoughts like, "Oh, there is Alicia and it's great that she is here," some positive thoughts about you.
PATIENT: Well, my whole life I have been attracted to people with warmth, because my parents were so cold and he is not a warm person. He is in a way, but he is like kind of - what's the word, pensive, thoughtful. And so a warm person would give you cues about, like, they will talk themselves. And I really didn't know him to just strike up a conversation and I just felt really stupid. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, so let me see if I understand this, you felt like you didn't have anything to go on in terms of reaching out to him, in terms of who he is; like you didn't know what to talk about?
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, like I had nothing to say. And I didn't know his hot buttons and you know, I really didn't know anything, so I just assumed that he didn't like me. 
COUNSELOR: Because he hadn't given you those things; is that right?
PATIENT: Yeah. So what do you think?
COUNSELOR: Well, there is no evaluation for that, you know. It's interesting to think about that though, just to reflect upon what that might be like for you to be in that position of not knowing and guessing, probably the direction of, well this means he doesn't like me if he hasn't extended himself out. 
PATIENT: Well, you know, either I didn't say anything and I shouldn't be so uncomfortable for not saying anything and it is just that awkwardness and uncertainty or whatever. 
COUNSELOR: And it is easier to understand your reaction, also thinking about the two of you, like he is bringing some thing to the table too, in terms of him not extending. I mean, that serves a purpose. It may not be to not give you anything but it sounds like in the absence of getting any information from him it made you feel more awkward than you normally might in that setting. It's important information for us to know and for you to be aware of with people.
PATIENT: Because I didn't get any information?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, from him and that might make you more. 
PATIENT: So are you saying that I need information? 
COUNSELOR: It might be. What do you think about that observation?
PATIENT: I would say yes. 
7:24
COUNSELOR: Okay, I mean it sounds like it but you are the best person for us to ask about that. 
PATIENT: But all my life I have had dissatisfactory working relationships. And you know I just don't know why. I am easy to get along with, bright, efficient, and I really don't know why. Like my last job, the guy that was my boss and his I guess his deputy or whatever you want to call him, he was like his confidant there. So when I was in line for the job, the boss, or prospective boss, had Tim this guy interview me. And Tim decided that he really liked me and that I should get the job, which I did. So then somewhere in the course of, I worked there four months, Tim just would walk in and just not even say good morning to me. He was very rude and cold and disgusting. 
COUNSELOR: Tim was the guy who interviewed you?
PATIENT: Yeah, and then he didn't like me. So I felt like turned some knob on him or I did something. And also I got negative clues from him.
COUNSELOR: Did you ever have anything in terms of something you could point your finger at like what happened? Was there a particular event that you remember?
PATIENT: Well, you know it could have been that my boss was like a little dictator. And he would always say, "I want you to do this and do that," so I was the messenger. So maybe after a while he thought I was the enemy. 
COUNSELOR: I see. But you were just the messenger from this boss. 
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: And did you like Tim?
PATIENT: No. I like everyone at first but after everyone starts off on a positive. Well, some people don't but some people are just too wimpy or something so I don't like them. But after a while I really started hating him. He was rude, he would upset me. But he had a sort of warmth about him. I think he was sort of a low life in a way. And I never saw what my boss and Tim had in common. 
COUNSELOR: Was he someone that - what do you mean by that?
PATIENT: Like Tim was low class and my boss was like a high class affluent kind of person and he liked things a certain way and Tim was a slob. They were just opposites, it was amazing but they were close and they would eat lunch everyday. 
COUNSELOR: It's hard to figure out what was going on there. 
PATIENT: Yeah. My guess is that my ex-boss wouldn't let them ditch this guy. But I don't know why I get into these, sort of, snake pit places. It's weird. It is possible that everyplace is, you know, really a snake pit but it is just that I never really learned how to play and how to get along and play the games and things like that. It was never taught to me. 
11:18
COUNSELOR: Let me see if I understand this, because part of what you were saying about feeling like people are cold to you it really sets you off. It is really hard for you to know what to do and it makes you feel awkward. Compared to, does that connect with, sort of, what we were talking about now with choosing jobs that feel like and not knowing what to do in those jobs? Are they somehow similar or related in any way? 
PATIENT: You mean my choice of occupation?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, or even the jobs that you do choose or knowing how to interact with people at work. Do you think that is related?
PATIENT: You mean like, choosing jobs that I don't really want - well the thing is that most of my working life has been or hasn't been a great choice. Now it has been, May, June, July, August, three months, so naturally the first job that sounds good I'm going to take it and that is bad because it's been so long. You know, I've been in limbo. 
COUNSELOR: Let me get a sense of how long that has been because in terms of your history. So currently you are working at this temp job?
PATIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: And when did you start this job?
PATIENT: Like, the end of May.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so right before the summer. So how about before that what was going on?
PATIENT: Before that I had this job with those two people I just mentioned that were polar opposites and I got that in January of 98'. Before that I had a real string of hard luck. I had changed jobs; I was with a head hunter place. I had changed jobs and I went to a company that I really, really liked and a boss I really liked. And it was really an atmosphere that I wanted to be in. And then a month into the job, I was doing a great job, the boss got fired and a short time afterward I lost my job. So that was August 97' and then it was six months before I could find anything which was this job I just told you. So naturally when this came up I took it because it felt like it was not a great choice. 
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't feel like you have a choice right now? It sounds like you just sort of take whatever comes up.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: Tell me a little bit about this job now, the most recent one, the one that you started in May. 
14:14
PATIENT: Well it is for Emigrant Savings Bank. And it is like a really retarded job. It is like most of the time I sit there doing nothing. I have read like a great deal this summer, which is nice. But it's like I work for an executive vice president in the mortgage department. The people are nice and I have fun but it is just really like, people are like our lives. And, I don't know, it is just a depressing environment. 
COUNSELOR: Depressing how?
PATIENT: Well, you know, I think I probably mentioned it, the last time they decorated this place was like 1956. It is really drab and horrible. And all day long people come from the bank floor and they have complaints about their mortgages and, you know, it's not what I want to do. But, you know, what I want to do is just work for like some executive or CEO or something but I am really scared about that because a lot of those guys are mean. 
COUNSELOR: So you don't want to be in a situation where you are working with a mean person?
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: So, tell me again, I am just trying to formulate here out loud a little bit about what it is that you think brings you to that point of picking mean people? I mean has every job been one where you have worked for someone that was difficult?
16:14
PATIENT: I can't say everyone, but most of them. Let's see, like I should go back to the beginning basically. I was in high school and I was like disturbed and I was so unhappy with my parents and everything and then I took off or I went to college for - I was like in and out of college and really unsure. Then I went to college for about a year and I dropped out to work for an insurance company which was Equitable. And I was doing really well there and I was very diligent and whatever. And then what happened was I started having an affair with one of the kind of high ups there. And he was married and he was like forty years older. He was like my mother's age or my father's age. Well, I shouldn't say forty because I was eighteen and he was like fifty something, so thirty years. And so then I just quit that job and I didn't want to have an affair with him it just was like he wanted to so I did it. 
COUNSELOR: You were eighteen, just a kid still. 
PATIENT: Yeah, so - no, it was no biggy. You know, I don't know. I have no - well the only guilt I have over it is that, you know, that I did it because he wanted to and not because I wanted to. 
COUNSELOR: So do you feel guilty about that still, like now when you think about it?
PATIENT: Well, looking at it in retrospect yeah, because here I was wasting my time doing this when I could have, if I was as focused as I am now, you know, I could have been something or whatever. Or if I was going to have an affair with someone I should have had an affair with the head guy and gotten some place. But this was like a losing type thing. Then I, I'm going to skip over some things but then I took off and worked in Richmond for a while. Then I came back and I worked, no I went back to school. And then I went out to Arizona and had a series of jobs. And I went out there with my friend Joel and we parted in Arizona. But before I went to Arizona I think I was, like, I worked for this I was kind of like I didn't know what to do and I was here and there and I got this job through a next door neighbor working for this guy, this manufacturer. It was a small company. And this guy was, like he was a really good looking guy. And he was a stand in for Steve McQueen at the time, like a double. And I was his office manager and I - like he used me to death and it was amazing that I didn't know any better. He would take my car all day and drive around. Because he had a Mustang and he didn't like to put mileage on his. And I never knew like, there was anything wrong with that because I had so little self esteem that it was like, "Oh well, he wants it, anything for the boss." Then that was when I moved to Arizona and I stayed there for a year or two and that really got no where. 
COUNSELOR: I'm going to interrupt you for a second I just noticed as you are talking about your life that there is this, kind of, tone to it like this happened and then that happened, but it sounds like or part of what we are talking about are seems like very emotional things that you have some feelings about. Are you aware of this sort of keeping these things or this voice or details of things, event after event? 
PATIENT: Well, I am trying to detach myself because I am giving you a sketch. So, you know, I am approaching it scientifically and not emotionally. So then I went to Arizona and then that was a nightmare too. I had a series of jobs and I lived with this, I hooked up with this weird black guy there. I mean I was just talking about this with someone else recently and here he was, here was this guy, I was just 24 or 23 and he was a lot older, he was like 36 so here he was older and he had been in jail for rape, armed robbery and a total loser. But then again I thought so little of myself that he was someone who was so totally in love with me that it made him more exciting because he was in love with me. So, I don't know, like that ended after a couple of years and the jobs, I know my focus is jobs, but I had a few of them out there and nothing ever came of them because I was involved with such a looser that my life was just so up and down. But then he got abusive so I left him. He started hitting me so I tricked him and moved back to Ohio and left him there. 
COUNSELOR: How did you feel about that move?
PATIENT: I felt guilty for that day but...
COUNSELOR: Just that day? 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about it now? I mean about leaving the situation not necessarily being in the situation but the being able to leave it. 
PATIENT: Well, I would think it was a good move. I mean, you know, he wasn't exactly the love of my life. So, I mean it could have been worse I could still be there. As low as I was, it just didn't feel right. And then I moved back to Ohio and I had like a five year job with another insurance company. And, you know, I could have gone places there but, you know, I hated insurance and then I got involved with the wrong people; like the drug people. Then eventually I got fired, I got downsized. And so I was like seriously depressed and I had been in a relationship at the same time with this guy who was a friend of one of the losers that I was friends with at work. And, you know, he was like mentally abusive too, never physically, but he was very absent. Like emotionally and very noncommittal and whatever. So he was like a terrible boyfriend and he didn't want to get married and my father was pressuring us. I feel bad about that because if I had married him it would have been a total nightmare. And my father wanted me to marry him only to get me away from them. 
COUNSELOR: How old were you then?
PATIENT: Well, when I met him I was 26 and when we broke up I was probably 30. 
COUNSELOR: They wanted you to get married and move away from them? 
PATIENT: Well, they were planning on retiring and they were moving out of state and I think they just wanted to wrap things up and.
COUNSELOR: And feel like you were going to be taken care of?
PATIENT: Right. I guess they are just from a different school, you know. Where you just get married and you work it out. This wouldn't have worked out. So then I thought I was this horrible old lady and I was like 30. And I just thought it was the end of the world, you know; I just really crashed. And then I met this guy, a friend of a friend, this bi-sexual guy. And I started having a relationship with him but then he went back to Ireland. So I went to Ireland to visit him. And I stayed there then I started working for a call girl service there. And so I made a ton of money and we broke up. And I can't say it was the best job I ever did but it was interesting. And I came back and we had like a tumultuous split kind of, this guy from Ireland because I realized like he was - I wanted to stay with him and I was, sort of, in love with him but he really wanted me to go. So I just sort of left in the middle of the night and left and moved back because I still had an apartment in Ohio. I guess I was making enough money so I could keep my place there in Belfast and here.
27:45
COUNSELOR: How long were you in Belfast?
PATIENT: Like 6 months, not long. So then I came back and basically did the same thing for like three years. 
COUNSELOR: Back here in Ohio?
PATIENT: Yeah, and, but when I came back - well, I don't know. I, kind of, started therapy at some point, like maybe at 30 or 31. And then at some point after like three years I decided I was making good money and I was taking great vacations and things but I kind of felt like a vampire. Like up all night and sleep all day and not having any real friends because you could never tell them what you do. And I felt kind of isolated. So I decided to go back to school, which I did, and I quit that business. And I had saved enough money to put myself through school. And, you know, I went to school and graduated with honors. 
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: But now after all that I feel like I am in the same boat. Of course I have come a long way but I feel like I am not getting anywhere or doing anything. 
COUNSELOR: Something is keeping you from getting to your goals, attaining your goals?
PATIENT: No, I don't' think so. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like, in a very short period of time you were able to change tracks and it seems like it wouldn't be very easy to fell like one minute you were making money, turning tricks, this is the business I am in and then to say, I'm going to get out of this and I am going to college, to finish college. It just seems like you needed to be pretty focused to be able to do that. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but it's like, I want to make that money and have that freedom again, but just doing something else. And I just feel like that isn't happening. I mean, I have been out of school for nine years already. 
COUNSELOR: See some of this process is that we talk about it and it sounds like you are mourning some expectations that were not met for you, things that you expected of yourself but they didn't happen.
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't say that. You know, I have, like, hope for the future. But I just feel like there's this little obstacle that I just can't make it go away myself. And as I said before, like relationship wise, I think I've improved. Like I found somebody really good; he is a professional or whatever. He is a good person. So it could be a matter of time for this career thing to happen but, I don't know, I think I need to help it along. 
COUNSELOR: And how do you see therapy helping that, helping you get on track with work? 
PATIENT: Because, I mean, it might not but it could on the other hand. 
COUNSELOR: Do you have any ideas or ways in which you think that might help or may not help? When you decided that you wanted to come to therapy, what lead you to that decision?
PATIENT: Nothing, I just saw the ad and I just knew that, I had a bonding with the ad and I just knew that maybe that was something I should do. 
31:53
COUNSELOR: So what is your sense of, I mean, tell me a little bit about your therapy experience. So it was in your 30's that you had therapy, or went to therapy first? 
PATIENT: Well, I went when I was in my teens. And I don't really remember saying that much. I really thought it was bullshit. And I went for about three years but then in my 30's I went - oh yeah, I started to go because, like, I was involved with some guy and he wanted to marry me and he ended up leaving me in the middle of the night and so somebody suggested that maybe you are in all these relationships that are destructive so maybe you should go to therapy and find out why. So I think, like, it is possible that the same kind of abusiveness that I use to find in relationships could get carried on in work. Like I think my father was - well they were both really abusive. But a lot of these bosses are men and my father was a very unkind. 
COUNSELOR: To you?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. So I think it is a carry over and maybe on some level I feel comfortable with it. 
COUNSELOR: And one of the things with abusive parents is, you described both your dad and your mom, is that you are playing out some power dynamic that as a child you had no control over and you don't have any awareness of what is going on in terms of who has the power here and you are obviously dealing with the effects of it. For example, like, if your father yells at you about something, you deal with the effects of that not realizing, well this is a full grown adult who has some control over if he is decides to yell at you or not. And you as a child didn't have any choice about listening to that or hearing that. 
PATIENT: You mean like with my father I had no choice but with the boss I do?
COUNSELOR: Well, yeah that is a real difference now, as an adult. You do have some choice in who you or what kind of situations you are associating with. 
PATIENT: Yes. But my thing is, like, my last job for example, if I wasn't the person that I was and maybe somebody else went in there. For example the person my replacement, when they found somebody to replace me, didn't elicit the same responses and he was so mean to the next person as he was to me because maybe I called that out of him. 
COUNSELOR: Do you somehow elicit that from people, that response? 
35:20
PATIENT: I just don't know. Well, what I think is that I am just too nice and I just do way too much and then I try to please so much and some of these people, like the more I give the more they take. Whereas I should have just stopped at some point but I just try so hard and I give it too much. And I don't know how to say no. 
COUNSELOR: Then it is disappointing when the results you want never come. It just seems like you are working so hard at getting that somehow, which is to please the boss. 
PATIENT: Well, maybe I just want his respect or whatever. I mean this last boss, like, he said, "Well, personal errands will be, like, getting a coffee or whatever." And before long I was looking for apartments for him, I was like doing dishes in his kitchen, I was waitressing, like doing all kinds of stupid stuff. 
COUNSELOR: That was never defined as part of your job at the beginning. 
PATIENT: No. But I was just trying to make myself liked. 
COUNSELOR: Which is something that all of us do. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but at first, you know, I was afraid of getting fired.
COUNSELOR: That's part of why you are doing that. 
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Like, I don't have any real problem with this boss that I am temping for.
COUNSELOR: In terms of trying to please him?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't really give a shit because it is a temp job. I mean, I do when he gives me something to do. So I don't really have a problem with him; except in the elevator and things like that. 
COUNSELOR: Hard to know what to do in those situations it sounds like.
PATIENT: I mean, like, all these people are nice in the beginning and charming and then they start getting, like really, I don't' know. They have a bad day and they tend to take it out on people. I don't know at what point I am supposed to stick up for myself or whatever. Like my mother was a very subservient women to my father and you know, unfortunately, like, I think that is the way you are supposed to act sometimes with bosses. 
COUNSELOR: So you have carried that over?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: Are there times when you are haven't and then other times when you have stuck up for yourself in situations with your boss?
38:23
PATIENT: I don't' know. I'm sure but maybe not. 
COUNSELOR: What makes it so hard to figure out? 
PATIENT: Because they have such absolute power. I don't know, they ask you to do something and, you know, they need it so what are you supposed to say, that you can't do it? I have a can do attitude. 
COUNSELOR: Which is probably a lot of what you are made of which is to take care of other people, to make sure that their needs are taken care of. So has there ever been a time when you did say no to somebody just because you needed the rest of the afternoon off or something like that or you needed to get yesterdays work done before you get more. 
PATIENT: I'm sure that there have been. 
COUNSELOR: Are there times now, like at this present job?
PATIENT: I'm sure. But just focused on why these things aren't working out. It could just be a strange string of luck, but it is like I feel like I have come so far and I am not getting anywhere. I'm just at a standstill. 
40:09
COUNSELOR: It seems like it is hard for you to develop a sense of, that you have come far because when I asked you about the difference in coming back from Ireland and where you got your degree and finished and it felt like you shrugged that away. 
PATIENT: Yeah because that is the type of person I am. I probably could have been a super achiever at something because I never look back I just keep doing. 
COUNSELOR: It is hard to look back sometimes even to see the positives sometimes. 
PATIENT: Yeah well, it is like I remember on graduations day I just don't want to think about it. I just thought I should have - like I graduated with like a 3.6 or 3.7 but I was like why didn't I get a 3.8. 
COUNSELOR: It is hard to stay there and just be happy that you graduated and you got a 3.6.
PATIENT: Yeah, I just try and do too much and I am an over doer. And I never think I do enough. 
COUNSELOR: Hard to feel good about yourself? 
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess. Yeah, I don't know. I just don't know how these people stay in jobs for years and years. It is really hard for me. 
COUNSELOR: It seems like you have some clues in terms of your past history, you have some ideas about why this may be happening here with you and it is important for us to keep reflecting back on what your ideas are and not just about past jobs but sort of what happens day to day right now. So in terms of you temping right now but what are your goals; are you actively seeking another job?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: More permanent?
PATIENT: Yeah, I am like totally frustrated. Yeah, like the phone doesn't ring and they tell me it is because it is the summer, so I feel like I can't - there is no end in sight. 
COUNSELOR: And when you are able to find a job, chances are you are probably going to take it? Is that my understanding or do you think you might have some choice in what you pick?
PATIENT: Well, I guess, you know, I should think about that. I should have a choice because it is not like I am starving temping. You know, before I had my own apartment and I was paying for myself and everything, bills and responsibilities and I still do but living with my boyfriend in Pennsylvania is a lot cheaper than living in Ohio. So I do feel this has been a blessing in a way because when I lost this job it was like two weeks short of being able to (inaudible 43:40) like, and I just got to the point with him, my last boss, where I was so frustrated with him and he was so fussy and particular. And he would spend the whole day just ranting and raving, and this and that and I just thought he was crazy, you know, I really think he is nuts. And I was so frustrated with him I just said, "There has got to be a different way, I'll temp or do anything." So this temping thing happened and it is not too bad and that way I don't have to rush into anything. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah you can enter a new place to sit with like in terms of what is different about this time then, say last time when you had to pick a job. You are supposed to start there in figuring out what may be next for you. You need to get a sense of okay, you are doing okay in terms of living space you are not in a place where you have to take a job to be able to pay rent. Do you pay a lot of rent?
PATIENT: Yeah, because, I mean, it is his apartment so I am paying him rent but not as much as Ohio. You know, I'm making ends meet now it's not like I have a huge overflow but just basic needs. Whatever, I'm getting by. 
45:24
COUNSELOR: Sounds like it is a different place in some ways then what you described in the past. 
PATIENT: Yeah, well it's, I have been there, like a different place in my mind. I have been there for a year and a half now and I still have my other apartment in Ohio but I'm subleasing it so it is not like I'm paying for that.
COUNSELOR: That's good. 
PATIENT: You know, I'm kind of like, content with him. I mean, I am very content with him. And before, like, I don't know, before him - well, we have been together for like four years. 
COUNSELOR: You are talking about him like, what are you thinking about or what are you feeling, you smiled. Did you notice that your face or you sort of smirked? 
PATIENT: No, I'm just feeling happy. But like if I look back at all the shit I had to go through before that to get to that point of meeting the right person, I mean it is amazing. It was like a battlefield. And you know he is not perfect but I am, like, very content with him and he hasn't exactly had a great track record. He has been married three times. And we are both just having the right relationship for the first time. 
COUNSELOR: So that is a new place too then in terms of relationships for you. 
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, well we need to end because it is about five after. 
47:31
PATIENT: Oh, okay. 
COUNSELOR: But this time, I mean six o'clock will be okay for you? 
PATIENT: Yeah, I won't be late next week it was just that I had this stupid errand to do. 
COUNSELOR: I just want to check, how was the form last week? Did it, was it self explanatory enough?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, let me give you this one for this week. 
PATIENT: I find that it is just better to do it on the ferry going home. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, that's fine. Yeah if you have some time, it doesn't matter when you do it just if you do it as soon as the session is over it is probably a little easier to remember what happened in the session. 
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: So I will see you next week. 
COUNSELOR: And payment for this week?
PATIENT: Oh right. 
COUNSELOR: That's okay. I just wanted to know if you had your check book. Now you said you paid thirty last week?
PATIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, I just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Let me go get you a receipt for this too so you can start keeping track of the receipts if you want.
PATIENT: That's okay. 
COUNSELOR: You're okay with that?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Sounds good so I will see you next week. 
PATIENT: Okay, great. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, see you later.
PATIENT: Okay, bye-bye.
49:13
END TRANSCRIPT
