TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Something very interesting happened Saturday. I came to a conclusion why when I was at my sister's and I couldn't understand that ... like I was really uptight. I stayed with a sister, a step-sister, for a year and a half and I brought my girlfriend, who I live with out there for a confirmation. So we're sitting at the house and she sees (ph) all the hiccups (ph) that went back and forth (chuckling). And I never realized them so strongly until I could just sit back and analyze a little bit. Seeing my sister get real jealous and things like this and seeing my brother-in-law ... (chuckles). My girlfriend walked in and he was like ... (chuckles) ... you know ...
COUNSELOR: Hanging on to her, you mean?
PATIENT: Well ... no, no, no, no, he was like ... let's see, I think they were discussing something, and she said what set him off is she crossed her legs - she has very sharp legs - and she says after that, Jesus Christ, he wouldn't leave her alone! (chuckling) And it was so funny. And I saw it and I noticed ... he used to do this to me too when I was living there. "Come on out and listen to my piano," and all this baloney. And I said to myself ... and then my sister calls me out of the room, you know, I was out there too, and she says, "Oh, I just wanted to ask about when your taxi (ph) is," all this baloney. In other words, she knew I was out on the porch with her husband, and she didn't want me out there and I knew it. But I don't think she knew my girlfriend was out there. She'd be even more worried! (chuckling) But it's just like ... I realize now like when I was there, how it was that I couldn't really ... I can't really explain, like whether it was a feeling or whether it was ... like what it was, but I didn't realize how hung up I was being there even. And it's like now I see it, like for a year and a half, it was like, Jesus, you couldn't talk to him and if ... I noticed sometimes she went out to the store and he had me in the back porch listening to some music and he was talking to me in the kitchen, completely innocently. He didn't try anything, he never tried to kiss me, he's never tried to do anything. But right away, you feel that, like she's walking in and it's almost written all over her face, "What were you doing with my husband," you know? (chuckling) Only talking! [0:02:11.5]
COUNSELOR: It's almost like that was just kind of in the air all the time you were living there and you couldn't get your way out of it to be able to see it.
PATIENT: Yeah. And that's why ... and this is like maybe the first time ... I mean, I did know she was jealous. I knew that before. But I didn't realize the extent of the animosity going back and forth even between the two of them. She's always cutting him down. He holds his temper, he doesn't cut her down. But it's like, you know, he holds it inside. So in other words, he's got the feeling reaction, maybe when nobody else is around, he cuts her down. Things like this. So I just thought, "Jesus." 
And then my girlfriend said to me ... she just remembered this one time, that ... she had two things she told me I remember. One of them was that, that would have been me if I hadn't gone to therapy more than likely, because I was very clinging and possessive at that time with fellows (ph). I said to myself, "Jesus, if I ever got married in a relationship like that I wouldn't want it!" (chuckling) But it's just so sad because as soon as a girl comes that's halfway feminine to the house, he goes ape, because she's very bossy and like a truck driver type. And not even ... I mean she's heavy, but that's not the reason. I know some very feminine girls that are heavy. But it's just that she's like ... it's like she's competing with him for attention and all sorts of crazy things and oh my God. I see this ... I see myself a little bit in her too, because I was that way for a while. And I'm getting out of it, and I thought, "Oh Jesus ..." (chuckling)
But it just ... to see people that unhappy with life and realize that you could have been in that situation if you hadn't changed a little bit (chuckling) you just go, "Bleah!" 
COUNSELOR: Right, and you're still kind of close to it and so it feels even worse.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. And I guess ... you know, like I'm not completely over things. Like last night, I know when we were ... my two friends and myself, we have a crazy relationship! (chuckling) First day we meet, we go out and eat dinner together [my two married friends] (ph) and they're like ... it's so great, though, that it's just like a relationship where I still say I care for him more as a friend, not because he's a man, but because of just some of the things he did, like with the pizza last night. We said, "Let's split the last piece three ways," his wife says. He says, "On no, you girls didn't have as much as I did, so you split it." You know, things like ... just little things like this, but you notice them. Just like real sweet things like that that he does and this is one of the reasons I think he's a little bit closer, but they're real, you know, really, really close, like the three of us. [0:04:40.7]
But anyway, my teacher came up but he directs more of his talking to her. And for a while, I thought it was just because he liked her more. But it's not, really, it's just that partly it's her animation when she comes back, you know, and partly it's like ... towards the end of it, he'd turn around and say, "And you stop challenging!" (chuckling) So in other words, he knew I was there all the time, but it's just that he directed more directly whatever he was saying at the time to her. But it was like again, like it was just like out of the clear blue (inaudible), "When you stop challenging me, [you're going to be better in the world] (ph) (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Oh. You'd like him to pay more attention to you.
PATIENT: Yeah. When he's talking, I would. But I mean, it doesn't hurt me like it used to. I still find myself saying ... a little voice saying, "Well maybe if I pay a little bit more ... LOOK like I'm paying more attention or that I'm more engrossed in what he's saying, then maybe he'll ..." But I figured, "Now look, maybe whatever he's got to say at this time, has got to be said ... or should be directed more towards this person than towards the other person. So what's the big deal? Or even if he did think she was cuter or more sexy or whatever the thing is, so what? But it's like, I can still feel it a little bit and then I stop myself (ph) and say, "Uh uh, no, no, no, no. Not this again. Just because he reminds you of your grandfather ..." and I think that's what it is, it's like I want all the attention. And you say, well, you know, you can't do it, so, it still hurts a little bit. I'm the first to admit it, but it's like, when he pays attention to me or when he comes up after class and says something to me, it's like "Oh!" (chuckling) But it's not as bad. It's not like a real rejection just because he doesn't talk as much to me. I don't ... you know ... and I really feel good about that because at one time it would have hurt me like hell if I liked somebody that much and like he didn't pay any ... he pays attention, but not quite as much. One time, boy, that would have killed me, destroyed me utterly ... [0:06:33.3]
COUNSELOR: There's something in that, like you just ... you're kind of watching ... watching to see ... it's not quite like you can do something about it, it's like you're watching to see where he puts his attention more.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I do see that. I suppose if I were completely over this, it wouldn't even bother me, or I wouldn't even bother to look for it. But I guess it's because I'm not quite ... not quite over that. I'm over it enough so that I know that what I'm doing ... at least I know that I'm trying to do something for whatever reason. At one time, it would just be like ... like I would think I wasn't good enough or something like this. It would be that type of an attitude. Now it's not bad, it's just that I understand that what I'm doing is looking for attention from this person who reminds me of somebody else. And so it's like when he doesn't pay as much attention, it's just a little bit of a hurt, but I know why, because this would be like saying my grandfather came back and now he doesn't want to pay any attention to me, you know, and I understand this. But it's still like I find myself still just falling back a little bit into trying to [play up] (ph) something he WILL pay more attention and then I say, "Oh, the hell with it!" And the funny thing is when I say, "the hell with it," and start relaxing, he pays more attention to me. (chuckling) It's so dumb, that I realize that I do it and it's like (inaudible) oooo, what you're saying like this. And all of a sudden saying, "Oh, the hell with it," you know, start smoking my cigarette or drinking my coffee, and then he turns around and says something to me. (inaudible) [0:08:06.9]
So ... but I can see that I still do it just slightly, and I realize ... like the other day, I said something to this fellow at work ... I think he likes me. He's a nice, nice guy, but like I don't care for him as a boyfriend, he's just a nice guy. But I remember he was saying something, and I ... it's not WHAT I said, but I realized I was sort of copying Jodie a little bit in the way I said it, which I knew was wrong and I ... "Ah, that's it." And then I went back into myself again. But it's like ... at least now it's starting to come out that I can see it. I still haven't completely come over it, or like ... like James said Chrissie and I sometimes copy off each other. Everybody thinks we're sisters because we're just drawn like magnets towards each other, which is weird. It's like ... it's like we were working with a girl and it kind of reminded me of myself in a way, the way I was. She's like ... how can I explain it ... she's like for herself ... she's very smiling and friendly in that way. But it's like when you come near her, it's like she's actually drawing ... you take a step forward, it's like she's drawing a step back. You take another step forward, she draws back. It's like, some people I guess have to be picked as a friend whereas I guess both of us now are starting to pick friends, you know, like, Leigh and I ... all of a sudden it's just ... CHOOM! We were together. But like with this girl ... it's the weirdest thing, it's hard to work out with her. And we're trying to figure out, well the timing's not good or she's this or she's that and it's just like this ... it's not that, it's just like she's got like a ... like an aloofness. It's friendly ... you can smile and you can say something, but it's like, that and like it's almost like a feeling like you're a thing and you're not really somebody that you're trying to ... I can't really explain it, but it's like when you get together in the gym, you're supposed to be like a unity. And when you're with her, it's not like that. It's like when she's got you, boy, she'll try to take you and go WHAM! Down as hard as she can. And when you do it, it's like she's not really helping you. Or if she even makes a suggestion, she says, (grandly) "May I make a suggestion," like God has spoken. You'd best listen, peasant. (chuckling) And you think, "Okay, kid." And it's just like you really can't ... you can't get to her. [0:10:21.9]
And I realize for a long time, that I was getting almost into this mold. It was like I'd be very friendly, but it was like I was worried about Jane and where Jane was going and what Jane was going to do. And not worried so much about ... like Chrissie and I crack up and kid around even when we're doing something. And yet we can be serious and yet we seem to get timing perfectly, each one of us goes down perfectly (inaudible) and I don't think it's just timing, I think it's partly clicking. That each one of us is not trying to kill the other person (chuckling) to say like, "I'm better," or something. And it's kind of a new experience for me because I don't compete with her. If she gets it real well, it's just nice because then you go down nice and smoothly. (chuckling) But it's like ... it's a weird, weird thing with her because I still feel like just a little bit with sensei, but like I couldn't care less when other fellows come up and things like this, but there was a problem that I remember. Oh, there's this black fellow, and he's really nice. He's good looking and he's kind of sexy. And like, he came up to me last night and he had one of those sticks and they work with kendo - it's like a sword fight. And it was so weird because like he came up to me and I said, "Ooo, when can we start doing this because I saw some people working out with it and it's really beautiful and I'd like to learn that." And he says, "Well ..." and then he comes up and he whispers something in my ear, and I thought well maybe he was going to say, "Well I'll teach you," or something, and he said to me, "I love you." And I turned around and said, "What the hell does that have to do with it?" I was surprised at myself for coming back with this because at one time I just would have gone, "Huh?" (both laugh) You know, like either I liked it or I didn't know what to do with it or whatever, I just went, "What does that have with it? When can I start with the sword?" [0:12:07.9]
So that was okay, you know, because I knew he was ... I knew in my brain that he was kidding, but like it's still a little thing like it was still like a little bit of an ego booster no matter how I came back.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Until like my girlfriend came out with, "Oh, I've known him for a long time, he's tried that baloney with me," and it just ... just a little twang there and I could still feel like I was second even on this, you know? (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: I mean from an idiot that you couldn't care less, just the idea that he hit her before he even hit me. And it's like ... that was the only thing that really bugged me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, even though it was so silly ...
PATIENT: Yeah, it was such a dumb thing and the guy was not worth two cents as far as in that area. He might ... he's a very helpful fellow, a very nice fellow in his own way, but like, oh ridiculous in that emotional feeling.
COUNSELOR: He's going make that kind of play for you, that's just nowhere.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. In fact, the funny thing is, is I did kind of like him when I first met him because he was very nice and very friendly and he introduced me around and he helped me with tumbling (ph). Really nice guy. And then he comes out with something [that was, jeez that was so uncool] (ph), he just went CHOONG! And blew everything we started. But I mean it was just that little twang when I found out ... it was almost like he does it ... see this bugs me. Again, with my boss, it was the same way. I didn't mind the idea of him even so much when I found that he was playing, you know, he was trying to play around and see what he could get for nothing. But it's like the idea is that when my girlfriend came out and said, "Well he would have done it to anybody," that's like saying, "aw s***," like ... if I were some kind of special challenge or some kind of different thing, it would be okay. But it's just like, "Aah, you're just like (ph) anything else" anything marked 'female' I would go after. And it's like ... it makes me feel so low
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like you were just (inaudible). 
PATIENT: Yeah. That's true. Like it wouldn't make any difference what body was there (chuckling), that's what he was after. It's female. Good. But it's like ... that really [kind of bugged me] (ph). And it bugged me again the other night when I found this out. Just a tiny bit. It wasn't as bad as it was when I found out that my boss was doing ... my boss ... and I was so mad because I won't pay any attention to him. I went out to dinner with him a couple of weeks ago, and he went to say good night to me and he went to take a hold of my arm and I shook his hand and said, "Thank you very much for the dinner" and he (inaudible) (chuckling) And he went, "Oh. Okay." He didn't try anything. He didn't know what to do or what to say. He didn't ... it was really funny. And then ... I guess ... see, he left me because he had to run for a train and I wasn't finished eating. I said, "Okay, good night." I'm drinking my wine, I didn't care. (chuckling) To hell with you. But it was like ...
COUNSELOR: It's like it's really funny you don't play into this game anymore. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: He's still trying it and you know it's a game and you're laughing at it.
PATIENT: Right. Right, right, right. In the end, he's going to be the one that's not going to know what's coming off and it's not going to be me, because like ... it's like ... I guess he figures ... and maybe that's why being an older man and playing around with a young girl, he doesn't expect ... well I'm not really that young, but I mean, you know, proportionately, I'm a lot younger than he is. And girls in their early 20s usually are pretty na�ve yet, you know, where fellows are concerned. Like that one day (ph) you know (chuckling) ... it's so funny that I won't play and I don't WANT to play his game anymore, which is something. He'll still sometimes come up and try to take my arm. [And I say} (ph), "Will you be good?" (chuckling) (inaudible) He's goes like this, he goes "Uuh." 
But it's really ... I really feel good about that thing. But it still bugs me a little bit because I notice when there's like a reoccurrence, it's still a bugging there, that I don't like to be considered just like one of the mass, like it wouldn't make any difference if it were you or somebody else. I guess that stems from my idea that when I was younger ... well I also had an inferiority complex from being a step-child and things like this and it's like, now I feel like I have to overcompensate. [0:16:00.8]
It should make you feel good, really, when somebody says that, you know, like well he would have tried it with anybody ... you know, that it's not you particularly that are inferior or bad or something like this. Or like overly sexed or something like this. And instead of taking it that way, I take it as, "Oh s***," you know? Like he would take anybody or anything. And it's like I had nothing special, see? So rather than taking it in another sense that it could be taken, I always take it in the WRONG sense, you know, and then when you think about it later and you say, "Well it could be taken two or three different ways." But it's so weird that I had this thing and it was always feeling like I was really inferior. I still don't know to this day exactly where that came from. I do know it's partly because I feel like I didn't know what I did and I felt like my mother got sick because of something I did. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I must have done something wrong and therefore you were wrong.
PATIENT: Right. In some way, and so then it was like ... I guess everything just followed (ph) through, you know, you feel like as a little kid ... because I was raised on the type that you do something wrong, you get punished, that type of thing. And it's usually ... it has to do with physical. Like if I was really bad, my mother would spank me and things like this. And so I guess that's where I sort of transferred over to a physical thing, you know, in that way sickness, because I did something to my mother and then she got sick or something because she didn't ... you know, something on this order. And I don't know, it's funny, the last time I saw her there was something new when I left her. Like I hadn't felt ANYTHING, like ... Jesus, I went out there all the time and I never felt anything and like the last time ... and it almost didn't sound like ME, it's weird, like sometimes you have something rehearsed, "Now this sounds good so I'll say it," you know. But like this just came out, and it was really kind of a beautiful way, just ... it just came out, I just took my hand and I put it on her cheek and I said, "Remember, Mom ..." what was it ... oh, "Remember, Mom, that I love you, I really love you." And it just came out. It wasn't something that I had practiced or anything. [0:18:13.4]
And then I felt myself ready to cry. And I hadn't felt like this for a long time. And then I just left her ...
COUNSELOR: Just that you could say it to her.
PATIENT: Yeah, and that it wasn't something like saying, "Yeah, I love you," or, you know, because that's what she wants to hear. But it's just something that came, it seemed like, from very deep within. It's finally starting to get out. And it just came. It just came out. And it was really ... I thought it was kind of a beautiful thing that it just ... I could really start to feel with her, or for her, or whatever, and not just like ... I don't know, the way I used to be was just ... I'd go there because it was an obligation or whatever, and I didn't really care. And I guess that's maybe why when I saw this other girl that was kind of like that too, it was like ... "I care about me, what's going on with me, and I'll smile and I'll be nice to you, but like I really don't want to help you or I really don't want to communicate with you. I don't care. I just want to get to be best or whatever, or I want to improve and I don't really care what kind of interaction I have with you." And I kind of felt like ... this is why when I saw her, I kind of realized that I was like this myself. I wanted people to come to ME, and do things for ME, or help ME out. But I didn't want to come out and go halfway to people. 
COUNSELOR: It's like when you were with people, there was only this artificial kind of mask and the real you wasn't quite ready to become you. And now it's different. Now, that mask is kind of not so stiff.
PATIENT: Yeah, I feel like I'm starting to break through. I remember a couple of weeks ago, I felt like running. It was the weirdest thing. Not running away, but just running, because I felt free. I don't know what I had gone through, whether it was in therapy or I had been thinking about something at home, but it just ... I guess I just came to some kind of a conclusion or resolution or something. And I just felt so free. It's just like ..."Aah, I want to run and feel good!" And it doesn't ... [0:20:19.6]
COUNSELOR: Like you can really breathe.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. It's kind of weird. I don't understand ... this is like a symptom, I guess, with me usually, is that ... well of course I was at my sister's and smoking like a fiend and eating and everything else because of all egos (ph) are running this way and that way and the other way and you're going, "Aaaa..." (chuckling) ... But Sunday too, I found myself so depleted and everything that ... well part of it was a little bit of an inferiority thing too. There were two things. My girlfriend was going to have this one girl over and is very sharp, was in her modeling class, she's doing all sorts of modeling. She's very sexy, very pretty, the whole baloney, you know. So she was going to be over. And I remember my girlfriend ... first of all, I didn't like the idea that she had told me before, "I'm having ...," she said, "I'm having company Sunday." I said, "Good, now I have to figure out what I can do Sunday so I'm out of the house." And then she asked me like Saturday night when we get home and we're ready to go to bed, "Oh, if you want to stay for dinner, you can." Well I mean you know she told me like three days or four days beforehand that she was having company and then she asked me at the last minute if I want to stay. Well I didn't like that, for one thing. Because it was like, "Well I'll throw it in because after all, you did ask me to go to your sister's so maybe I should be nice ..." you know, it was almost like she felt like she had to pay me back, and I said, "The hell with that." 
But it was partly too that ... partly that I didn't want to spend lots of time with this girl because I know I'd find myself feeling a little bit less feminine or whatever, I don't know what it is. Because she's the type of girl that ... she's even more than a Jodie. She walks into a room and every guy goes, "Aaah!" But that was that, and partly it was just like I didn't want to talk to anybody. I got up and cleaned a little bit and got her some stuff for her dinner, and I went out. I went out to the zoo, walked all the way to the zoo and walked around. And then I went to the show, just to stay out of the house and also to ... because I didn't have anything there to give. It was like everything had just been from the day before I said, "Jesus, if I don't get out of here and get something for me (inaudible), I'm just not going to be able to do anything for anybody else at all, period. I'm just going to be BLEAH!" [0:22:21.9]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's what I would say, you just needed some time and space to get yourself together.
PATIENT: Yeah, because all these things were hitting, but what I realized, when I came home, there wasn't anything near like I was afraid to say, "hi," to her, and there was even a fellow there who I'd known before who I thought was kind of sharp and who used to go with one of my other girlfriends. And like when I walked in, it was like ... I guess now it was because I had like refurbished whatever I had within me something, that I could just walk in and I said, "Oh hi!" and went and got myself a drink and sat down. And there was no problem. We sat and talked for about a half an hour and she went home. But it was ... you know, I could feel that before it was like ... I guess maybe mostly it was just excuses, like, "Well I can't get along with this girl, I'm afraid of this, I'm afraid of that, and I'm afraid of the other. I've got to get out of the house." But I don't know, I guess that's when little things like that can bug you and sort of bog you down and things like that with friendships even and communication. I find myself doing that. I'll pick at little things and they probably won't be the real reason for why I'm feeling the way I am, but at least now I know that when I get like that, I've got to get out. I don't want to have any interaction with anybody. I've got to get out by myself.
COUNSELOR: So you can have time to see it and kind of collect yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. And it's not only that. Sometimes it's ... that thing was so irrelevant that I don't even think about it, it just ... you know, just ... it's almost like an excuse, you know, it's like I'm thinking now I've got to think of some reason why I'm so uptight or something and then I've got this one and that one and the other one. Look, I've got four reasons, you know? And I guess, but when you come right down to the whole thing of it, it's like the real reason is, is there's just nothing more in here to give. And like I would just be faking it, you know, whatever I have, and I just have to get out. I have to be by myself and learn to whatever again. [0:24:09.1]
But at least ... you know, I had a really good compliment from that one fellow at work that I said, you know, I think he kind of likes me. But he said to me, "You know, I really like you because you can give and take." And I thought, "That's really nice because nobody's ever told me this before." And he said, "Because you can give and take. Even when I ask you to do something, you can be busy and you don't get crabby if you're doing it, we joke back and forth, but you get it done. You reach a happy medium and besides, you're just nice." And things like I'll borrow a cigarette, but next time I'll ask him if he wants one of mine or something like ... so it's like back and forth. And I really thought that was nice that somebody would come out with no prompting or anything and just come out with this and say that. So I guess that's ... well I don't think so much of other people's opinions anymore as I did, like at one time if somebody said, "Oh you're ugly," or "Oh you're this," or something, I would go, "Oh Jesus!" and put a sack over my head for the next six days! But it was like, with this fellow, it was just a nice thing. It's like another person's evaluation that sometimes is okay to take a little bit of it.
COUNSELOR: Now you mostly believe you're all right and you don't have to get set off by all those people, but it still helps to get compliments.
PATIENT: Yeah, it does. Because otherwise sometimes you don't know ... I don't know, yet, anyway. Sometimes I might be on sort of a halfway right track but not completely. Like with little things, I don't mind changing my life for little things. Like sometimes you may do something that really irritates somebody. Well if it does, and you know it and they tell you or whatever, well you're going to stop it if it's not something that's completely inherent in you that if you changed it you'd be changing your whole life. And so you just stop it. And so ... like this is why I think it's nice and that if you're doing something that people really react to and it's nice to ... I think it's nice too for them to say something and then you can feel like, "Well, this is a good quality that's there." [0:26:12.2]
It's like I never realized that. I knew that we got along well jokingly, but I didn't realize that he ... he said that I was the only girl he knew that kind of kept ... reached a happy medium, which was nice. 
Well I don't know I've ... you know, another thing I see that I don't do very much but I still do a little bit is like ... liking to go through the audit staff, things like this, just so the guys look. No really, it's not as bad. When I worked back there it was ... and I was still kind of looking for people, fellows especially, to talk to me or pay attention to me or something on this order which would prove that I was really a feminine woman and all this baloney. And I saw this young girl who's really a doll. She's so cute with long blonde hair and she's a really cute girl, she's got a really great shape, the whole bit, and she's walking too and she turns around and the skirt is like this and the walk (ph) and she turns around and all she sees is me and she's ... it's almost like you could see it in her face, it's like, "Aw, s***, there's nobody there, so I can just walk normally." It's funny as heck! (chuckling) And I think, "Oh Lord, I used to do almost as bad." 
COUNSELOR: That could be me! (laughs)
PATIENT: Yeah. And I probably looked just as bad. (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yeah. And partly, she's coming out of it a little bit, she's coming out of the bag she was in and now she's getting fellows too that start ... you know. But still, it's like when they go to parties, like it's a little group from the office all sit together and she's one of them ... sit together and the girls fall all over the fellows and I think, "Oh you dummies, Monday morning are you going to be talked about in the back room!" But it's like ... you know, now I can do that. At one time if somebody, no matter who he was or where he was or whatever, if he started to pay any attention to me, it would just be like "Ahh!"
COUNSELOR: It's like now you have a lot more self-respect, like you think you're worth more than that. [0:28:07.0]
PATIENT: Yeah. I do feel that way. But my girlfriend says, "Sometimes I feel like ..." what did she say ... "I put more worth on you than you do." She says, "Not so much anymore, but it's still there a little bit." It's like ... there's still inferiority complexes that when I get next to somebody I still kind of compare when they're very much higher than I am. It's still a little bit, but it's not ... it's not to the point where it's sickening, you know, (chuckling) when you're like, "Oh Christ!" You know, you put yourself next to them and ... "Okay, 80 percent when you should be 95," you know, all this. And it's just like I can really start to interact with people. Like with my teacher on Saturday, she's such a great girl, and yet like ... my one girlfriend says, "You know, like a year or two ago, you probably never would have met her because you weren't open at all. Now you're starting to open just a little bit. It's going to take a while, but you're starting to open a little bit." And I said, "Yeah, I can feel it now, because these people that are there, that can give or can whatever .. whatever it is that attracts people together is there." And it's like ... things like I think there's going to be like a lasting relationship with lots of people now. Maybe not for life, but like something that's ... well I don't know, like Chrissie last night came because my hair is always falling apart when I'm at the gym place and she brought me these bands, these little bands. And it's just like ... people will do that and then next week I'll probably find something that I can bring her or do for her or whatever it is, whatever presents itself, if I notice she needs something or whatever, I'll see if I can take care of it or get it for her or do whatever. But it's like, I haven't really experienced this type of thing. I've experienced people who were like me, you know, they'll talk to somebody and they're very outgoing, I mean I never had problems when I went to a party or wherever talking to somebody. I always ended up talking to somebody. But lots of times like after the party, I just walk out and that would be it. You would never see anybody again, you would never ...you know. [0:30:14.2]
Well this happens sometimes with office parties, and I couldn't care less, because eeww, some of them are so bad! But I mean with people that I'm meeting now, I feel like there's going to be some things that could come out of it.
COUNSELOR: You really make a connection with them. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it's like ... and I feel like it's not just going maybe this far, but going lots further and not being ... see my big thing was not that I don't think it was even so much not being able to communicate, even love, but it was almost like a fear of it. And yet, I don't know, a friend of mine said too that sometimes ... we were talking about my home, and she said, "Well, how come you feel like she took her love back? Usually somebody has to do something in order for you to take your love back. You can only give so much and then finally you just say, 'That's it. There's no more to give.'" And I said, "Yeah, I did get to be very sullen and very ... like in a shell. I was like by myself. This is why I say I reminded myself of this Laura that she can smile very superficially, she's very nice and everything, but no communication, I mean it's like you talk to her and it goes CHOONG! Or CHOONG! But she's here. (chuckling) And it's like ... and I guess maybe that's partly the way I was. I don't know exactly WHY I got that way, but I do know I was like that. I was so much in a shell for a long time. People couldn't even touch me, I was like stone, really. And then when I went to Mrs. Mower's, it got to the point where ... well she was very nice and she was very grandmotherly and everything, but she wasn't strict enough, which is funny because like the other place was too strict. This place wasn't strict enough, it was like she didn't really care, you know? 
And then Michelle came on the scene. This was another thing. See, Michelle is the type of girl that ... she's emotionally a little bit mixed up and she lets every fellow do whatever he wants the first day she meets him which is dumb in that area, because it's all ... and then he goes, "Well ..." You know, another one. And she's not common. She's got a very beautiful loving spirit. And like I couldn't take it, because I was very selfish, and then my mother naturally reacted, plus she's got a very beautiful face. She's really a gorgeous girl. And like I would always think it was because she was prettier, just facially, and it wasn't really that much that she was prettier facially, it's just that she could love and I couldn't ... you know, really show love. I couldn't do it. She could. 
COUNSELOR: You really found out, you were really closed off, hard, and you couldn't get close to anybody.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I tried to open up a little bit, but as soon as somebody would do something that I would think was turning against me, that would be it. You wouldn't get ... they wouldn't get the old proverbial ... what is it ... to forgive seven times seven? It wouldn't be that. One time, that's it, CHOONG! That's it. You know, you've crossed me, that's it, no forgiveness, I don't care if I misunderstood. Whatever it is, you're dead. That's it. And ...
COUNSELOR: It's like you had to do that because that happened to you so many times. 
PATIENT: Yeah, and it was like, I felt this, like I was ... I wouldn't let you get real close to me. If you get just so far, but then if you did anything ... anything, it wouldn't be ...I used to hang around with this one girl for like three years and I saw her the other day, she was going to have a ... I guess her baby died and they had to take the baby from her. She was only two or three months along in pregnancy. And I saw her and I could play cards with her. Partly I threw some things out that I wanted to see if she would think and communicate with me a little bit in that area. She couldn't. It was right away, it was like, "Oh, Jesus." I said something about Chrissie [getting this] (ph) (inaudible) and they're throwing pennies and we were playing this crazy game, we'd throw pennies and if you get a seven, so I said "Oh well you were a racist anyway, Lincoln" you know, I'm throwing this stuff in. And I was doing it partly to be funny or at least to get a reaction or to ask ... have somebody say, "Well why did you say that?" or ANYTHING. But there was like nothing there, so I threw out a couple more things, you know like, "Well maybe they'll catch this one, at least." I wouldn't care if she turned around and said, "What the hell did you say that for? I don't believe that," and then give some whatever why she believes ... But nothing. And I thought, "Well I can't communicate with a person on this level like 'oh, my baby does this and my baby does that and my husband's doing (inaudible)" [0:34:34.3]
But I mean the thing is, is like I used to hang around with this girl for three years, and now there's no relationship. I mean, I worried because she was a nice girl and she was having a hard time or whatever, she might be in a dangerous operation, but like there was nothing there. And to think that for three years I hung around with the girl ... she was my "best friend," whatever ... and when Michelle came on the scene, she hung around more with Megan than I did.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I guess it's like it's really amazing to see where you've come from.
PATIENT: Yeah. But you know the one I would like to get back with a little bit as far as being a friend is my sister Michelle, because I started calling her that now again. Like for a long time, I didn't want to, you know ... well, she's my step-sister, whatever, you know, I lived with her for a while, if I have to say that. But now ... I told Jodie, I said I would really like to get back with her because ... okay, so she's emotionally kind of mixed up. But out of all of them, she can give love freely, I mean really give love. And not ... as many times as she's been knocked down, which I think is really great, she's in still need of love. And she's not completely jealous and things like this. Like my sister wouldn't even ... you know, she didn't want to give my godchild around to other people, like all the people that were there ... hold him for a little while and things. She puts him in this damn playpen. I was so mad Saturday night, because here he is, there's my godchild and he's sitting in this stupid playpen. There's two other babies there, everybody's holding the babies. Not my son, or my godson. But it's like she's saying, "This is mine. You can't have it." And I thought like I would have been just the same way. [0:36:14.4]
But then to see this poor little child's the one who suffers for it. This is why he's sick. He's very healthy looking. My girlfriend says, "He looks so healthy. How can he be sick all the time?" I said, "Well it's partly the food, it's partly that he's got this ... his mother cloaks (ph) him." His father plays with him and it's just like she always says things like, "Well he likes me better than Ted." And you think, "Oh Christ!" It's like she's even putting her child like ... her competition with her husband, she's carrying it that far into the child.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like her own hang-ups kind of spread out into other people and that's the worst part of that.
PATIENT: Yeah. And this is why it really bugged me. And she tried to do something to me too when I walked in the door. I would never have realized because I would always have felt guilty. We were late about 20 minutes. I mean the transportation was bad Saturday night. We had to take two buses and two ELs. They wouldn't even bother to pick us up from the station or anything, so you know, like, all right, so we were about 15 or 20 minutes late. I had done lots of things for that ... that party. You know, like I baked a ham and all sorts of crazy ... well, it was canned but it was a four-pound ham and things like this, and I had done lots, and I bought lots of things for it. And I walk in the door, and the first thing she says (angrily), "Boy, if we had to depend on you for our dinner, we wouldn't eat at all." And things like this. You know, I'm not like saying well I'm glad you could make it, it was such rotten weather, or ... you know, something like this. The thing wasn't supposed to start until 6 o'clock ...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like basically she didn't give ANYTHING to you.
PATIENT: That's right. And here you are, you spend half the day looking for stuff for them.
COUNSELOR: Not only that, but when you get there, you have to put up with her competing with her husband and with you and just a bad deal all around.
PATIENT: And it was like a hassle. That's why I think I needed that day that next day, I needed six or seven hours just for me, and to hell with everybody and everything. I just had to get out. 0:38:05.6
But Chrissie was like that and when Jodie walked in, she started that with Jodie, she said, "Well I'm sorry we're late, but the transportation was bad and we were very lucky we could make it at all," or something like this, she said to her. My sister right away ... I saw it, though, see. I never would have seen that before. I saw how my sister didn't yell at her or didn't try to. And then she turns on me, and I thought, "Oh no, lady, I said I was sorry and that's it." And I just took my stuff and I walked away from her. I didn't even talk to her after that. "If you want to yell, keep yelling. I'm not even listening." I just walk away. But it's like I never realized that before that she would do this. She would like intimidate. Or like ... I remember one time ... I didn't realize how much it bugged her, but it did ... I used to borrow cigarettes lots of times when I went out there because like I would run out and it might be late at night and I didn't want to go to the store, whatever. And so I brought them both a pack. I knew what Ted's brand was and then I bought what I thought was her brand. Well she comes out with, "Well, you got the right one for Ted, but for me you get one I stopped smoking a year ago." Well like I haven't been with her since like almost nine months, so she may have started a month or two on these other cigarettes before that. And I just remember her smoking this other brand. It wasn't anything intentional, in fact it was trying to be something nice. But not saying, "Thank you for them," or anything else, or "I'll smoke them ... if you're going to do it next time don't get this kind. I'll still smoke them because I did smoke them," but something like this. Anything that would be nice, but no. "You got the right (inaudible) but not for me."
COUNSELOR: It's really like all these ways she's being mean to you. I mean all these subtle and un-subtle ways, and not only that but you lived with her all that time and suffered from it and didn't see it.
PATIENT: Well what makes me so damn mad is that I took it! It was like I was so afraid of rejection that it was just like rather than be rejected, I would take any kind of bull that anybody threw out. It's not even ... 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you're angry at yourself too.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm angry at myself and ...
COUNSELOR: Like, why did I put up with that? [0:40:15.0]
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm angry at myself in the fact that I put up with it because it lowers my self-esteem, my respect for myself, but it's not only that. When I do that, when I let her walk on me, all I'm doing is reinforcing what she does to her husband. He won't talk either. He won't talk back. He'll just go along. And if they do start a fight, she almost always comes out with the last word. And he just says, "Oh the hell with it. I can't talk to her so I'll just walk away or just let her think she won." So she stands there victorious, she thinks, and she's losing her husband day by day. If he wasn't so much in debt ... 
COUNSELOR: You're really hurting her by letting her do that stuff to you.
PATIENT: If he wasn't so much in debt, my sister wouldn't have a husband right now and I know it because he's a good looking guy, he's pretty intelligent, he's not real educated or anything, but he's pretty intelligent. And he's good looking. And he's just a nice guy. When he comes off his hard exterior that she helps put him on ... like when we went to leave, he walked us to the door, and my girlfriend noticed this and I've always noticed that he's been very gentle with me too, not with her. He's not gentle with her because she's not gentle with him. But it's like he walks out and he said, "Well make sure that you girls now take it easy and be careful going home," and real soft and real nice. That's not the same guy that talks with at other times. And it just makes me so sad that they ... partly I guess it's because it's kind of a selfish thing thinking like, this would have been me. It would have been just about the same thing because like I had the same hang-up on guy's got to be mine and this has got to be mine and that's got to be mine.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like he's hurting her too, I mean he's playing into it the same way you did and everybody ... at least those two were kind of keeping each other in the same boat, hurting each other. [0:42:05.3]
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess that ... I didn't think of that ... well, I did know that he was sometimes in his own way kind of mean to her. That's usually when she was around, like he would say things like, "Oh, she's got a job," he wouldn't say anything bad about it, but he says, "Yeah, she's a make-up representative," it's like Avon and that type of thing. He says, "Yeah, well, it keeps her busy anyway," you know, like ... like it wasn't really something that he thought was important at all. Like she really couldn't do anything ... see they're both in their own way trying to get attention. It's not just her. Like he with his music, because he can play by ear, first thing he does is he wants everybody to get out there and listen to him with his music because this is something he can do. 
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you kind of want to take his side and part of it is because you see you in her, or something like that.
PATIENT: Probably. It's probably ... that's true because if I just try to take it objectively, I can see that he's just about the same. They're both vying for attention. He feels hurt because the baby doesn't like him as well as her, and she can gloat because he does. And it's like, when I see that, then Robin is so smart, she's another one that's like in that type of a situation that's really sad and I can kind of feel for her because she's so darn smart and so darn sensitive and then Wendy is so darn selfish, and I didn't realize this before, but this is probably why she says things like, "Oh my mommy doesn't love me" and I noticed it when Robin got something like perfume, she got (ph) a little bottle. Wendy starts crying because ... and Robin's confirmation, she happened to get this perfume, and Wendy didn't get any, so she was crying about it. And then her mother turns around and rather than trying to explain it to her, my girlfriend Jodie had to explain the difference to Wendy afterwards. After she'd gone through the crying bit and the whole baloney, she just sat her down and said, "Look ..." You know, my sister gave her some perfume, which is ... it takes care of the need for the second, but the next time the same thing's going to happen, and you're going to have to do it for this one because you're doing ... And Jodie just sat her down and said, "Look, if it was your birthday, would you expect everybody else to get presents?" And she said, "Well no, because it's my day." The kid admitted it herself. And then she says, "Well then why should it be any different when it's Robin's day?" She just walked away, because she's a smart kid too. She's smart enough that even at six years old or five years old, to understand it if you sat her down and talked to her. [0:44:31.7]
 But like my sister doesn't do that either and that's what kind of bugs me. She won't talk to the kids. She'll just yell at them. She screams at the top of her lungs. "Don't do this! No!"
COUNSELOR: So it's like that whole world is just filled with petty kind of things that you don't want to have anything to do with.
PATIENT: Yeah. And it's like I'm really breaking away. My girlfriend said something pretty nice too on the way home. She said, "Look, if you ever get in any kind of trouble, go to my mother. Don't go back to that place whatever you do!" Because she could see what I had been living in, and I can see it more now, it's very funny, than even when I WAS living there, because it's a little bit removed from (inaudible) and I'm not used to that kind of thing anymore. And then with Jodie it was just doubly good because I could just sit back. This way, if I was quiet, I sat kind of back, I could see more what's going on. It was more over her than me this time. And I realized that the same thing had happened only I had been the object of it. And I thought, "Oh Jesus, no wonder there's such a problem!" And I don't know, it's just like, wow, my sister doesn't get straightened out, Jesus Christ! I really feel ... she's not happy, and I realized this too, like after a long time, I was never happy with myself, never. No matter what I had done, if I won some kind of a contest or whatever, like a shorthand ... we had an (inaudible) for law firm secretaries. And my one girlfriend walked out with Miss Law Firm Secretary of the Year and it was like tied for almost half an hour between her and I. [0:46:10.5]
And I made ... I guess I had passed ... I won the contest for shorthand and she won for typing. So we were even right down to the end. I don't know what it was, I guess it was kind of a ... they looked at my letter again and I had made some kind of a crazy little flaw or something. And so she won on that. It was really, really close. Our speeches and everything were pretty close, the whole bit. And so I felt, again, second-rate again. There was like a good 100 kids if not more in that school. In fact I'm sure there was more. There must have been a couple hundred kids in that school, so out of that, she and I won. And like of course I came in second, but so what? I admit to this day she's a better secretary that I (inaudible) a distinction I don't want! (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: But still, you couldn't see that it was ... you had done something really good. It was just that you had lost out. That was the (inaudible) thing.
PATIENT: Yeah. Not thinking that, "Gee, that's pretty good to get the whole award for the shorthand." No. Couldn't think that way. All I could think of was (mock crying) that I could have won the crown and I didn't get the crown. (both chuckle) So I'm no good. 
COUNSELOR: So all of that old stuff just seems like so silly and so trivial and useless and why did you do that for so long?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it does. Then again, it was a nice night like this and I ended up being unhappy. And I thought ... I thought to myself, "All this wasted day. Why be so unhappy with this?" But it wasn't just the outside thing because I was unhappy with myself. I didn't really think that there was anything there worth being happy about. And it's still ... it's still hard at times. Sometimes I get depressed and I feel like I wished I hadn't been born a certain circumstances that I had been born in. Things like this. But on the whole, it's a little bit easier to accept. 
There's still some things I wish I could figure out about myself. Like I don't know myself completely and I wish I knew myself a little more than I do. But basically speaking, I feel like now I can ... at least one thing, I feel like now I can start to feel I don't know if I know completely how to give. It's still ... I'm still kind of floundering, like I don't really know exactly what it is, what it all entails. What is it? You try to talk to my girlfriend, she's like, "Well I can't tell you. All you can do is experience it." And you go, "Oh ..." And I really can't really explain it or how I feel or whatever. I guess part of it is just consideration for other people and things like this. Lot's of times, it's very hard to know exactly what to do or what the need is in people and things like this that you can try to help with. And so I've got problems there with giving. 
Like with Chrissie, I thought that was very nice. She noticed right away something was wrong. I couldn't keep my hair back. And the only thing I noticed is like one time I made sure I had cigarettes for her. I got some cigarettes and wrapped them up for her because I had borrowed some the week before. It was very funny because she DID need cigarettes that day. It was like a perfect thing, but it was like I didn't know that need. And it was like I still can't feel those needs lots of times. Like I know times that my girlfriend at home, like she's depressed or something. But like I don't know what that need is. I can't recognize the need or whatever, or what I should do. I don't know whether I should leave her alone, I should try to make her talk. Partly because when she's in a bad mood, she snaps, she kind of snaps at you and she's very sarcastic. And lots of times, that puts me on a defensive and I say, "The hell with that. I don't need it." [0:50:04.9]
COUNSELOR: So it's those times when you feel like there really is something you could do but ...
PATIENT: You don't know what.
COUNSELOR: You feel kind of helpless.
PATIENT: Yeah. I just sit there and go, "Well I should do something, but what do I do?" But one thing I realized too that I never got the training when I was at home ... because when I quit working out, I had to go in and talk to the head instructor. And I was thinking ... I really was thinking of doing it, it wasn't the idea that I wasn't, but I probably would have ended up NOT doing it if Jodie hadn't said, "Look, you'd better get up there and tell him you're quitting." I said, "Well, okay." So I went up there and I got him a card and the whole bit. And I was so ... I didn't realize how scared I was. I just remember myself all the way up there rehearsing in my mind what I was going to say to him and how I was going to put it so that he wouldn't reject me. I realize afterwards it was like so that he wouldn't really like turn on me and say (growling), "Why did you change?" or something like this because I go "Whoa." Or part of it too was like, how do I say it so that he doesn't feel like it's HIM that I quit for? So it was like two things. I didn't want to be hurt, yet I didn't want to hurt him either, because he was a good teacher. There was nothing wrong with his teaching. 
So I got up there, and my one girlfriend ... my other girlfriend was there, so she called my roommate afterwards and she said, "Jesus, I thought Jane was on drugs! She walked in the first ..." All I could see was my teacher. That's all I could see. I saw him sitting there and the other instructor was sitting like between him and myself. I didn't even notice him. My girlfriend was standing right along side of him, I didn't even notice her. I didn't even SEE her. All I saw was this man. And I was (stuttering), "C-c-can I talk to you for a minute?" And I thought I was handling it pretty well. She said that my voice was up about three octaves, like I was almost glassy-eyed. She thought sure I was up on drugs or something. She said, "What the heck is Jane taking?" And it was just that this was such a fear of ... I don't know what it is, it's like something that's hard for me to face. I get like really like that. I mean I'll DO it, but like I'm scared stiff and there was no reason for that. It was just like saying I was leaving, thank you for being my teacher, and walk out. That's it. [0:52:12.5]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you were afraid that you wouldn't be able to get it across. 
PATIENT: I couldn't convey my idea the right way, yeah. And this is why I think all the way from work over there in the morning I had been thinking, "How do I say it in the right words?" 
COUNSELOR: And so that he'll ... so that he won't think it was the wrong thing or ...
PATIENT: Yeah. See, I wanted to get so ... well partly, see I guess maybe partly because I wasn't completely honest. I mean, I'll have to be perfectly honest that there were some things in his teaching that I didn't like, the way he taught compared to the person. And that type of thing or like in a school or whatever you're going to, you have to use comparisons. And I like the discipline that my other teacher had, like he'd go (clapping sound) and everybody was down and watching. There weren't these people pushing you or getting in front of you and things like this to see him, and the sensei ... I found this out later on though that the instructor doesn't do this. It's just the way he inspires. He doesn't talk real loud or anything and people HAD to sit down and watch or they couldn't see what was going on. 
COUNSELOR: So it was almost like you were getting caught thinking those things and ...
PATIENT: And I didn't want him to know.
COUNSELOR: and there was the possibility that you would have to tell him. 
PATIENT: That wasn't the only reason. There were things like ... I don't know if it was running away, and it might be. Maybe this is partly the way I feel, like I'm doing better, maybe I'm not doing as much better as I thought I was, but it's like I didn't want to be in the same class, I didn't want to take it just once a week because if I just took it on Saturdays I would be like SORE for two days afterwards. So I wanted to take it twice a week or three times a week. But I couldn't because like they were on ... my two girlfriends were in the Monday and the Friday class. And I said I do NOT want to be in the class, I don't want to like feel myself or like feel inferior because like the fellows are paying more attention to the two of them or that like the teacher ... one teacher likes one girlfriend and the other teacher likes the other girlfriend. So you know, like, it's like, you would be there, you wouldn't have much attention paid to you or anything else. And I said, "Look, I don't need this kind of thing." And I WILL find myself doing that, saying, "Well which one's for me? There's got to be somebody here for me." [0:54:24.4]
COUNSELOR: So THAT'S why you didn't want to go talk to him.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because then you might have to be honest and tell him the real reasons why you were quitting.
PATIENT: Right. And it wasn't really my back. I didn't care. I was pretty good at the gym. I like working out. But I also like running, so there's no problem. I switched over and I like (inaudible), in fact, I think I like aikido a little bit better because it's not as rough. I do admit it was kind of rough. But otherwise, it's like most of it was to do with the human element. And it's just like I didn't like the idea of being put in competition all the time, because that's what more or less I'd have to do to get any attention. Let's face it, if somebody emotionally is involved with somebody else, they're going to end up spending more time with them and you're going to be pushed aside a little bit. And not that I liked him, in fact the funny thing is, is that I never did like that instructor as far as ... she thought he was so sexy and I kept looking at him and going, "Okay ... I don't know what you see that's so sexy about him, but okay. If you say so." (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: So then it was that Jodie kind of made you feel like you HAD to go see him when you really didn't want to, you really didn't want to ...
PATIENT: No, I would rather just have it ... like I would ride off into the sunset and nobody has to know anything.
COUNSELOR: That made it like you HAD to go and be nice to him. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: She told you about ... you'd really be doing a socially bad thing if you don't go tell him.
PATIENT: Well I felt lots better after I had told him just for the fact that it IS very impolite. I had thought of taking a class because I still had one left out of the 25 that I had paid for already. And I was going to take it on a Saturday and then tell him. But the big thing was you see, my back was supposed to be bothering me. That back comes in handy for everything! You know, I came out for therapy because of my back, I get out from this because of my back! (chuckling) [0:56:10.1]
So I just told him that my back was bothering me. And so that's when I told him mainly I said my back because the falls were too hard that my back's (inaudible). And I said, besides, I fell in love with (inaudible) when I saw it. I said I just have to look into it and I fell in love with it. So he said, "Well, okay."
But I don't know ... because my girlfriend said, "Well he teaches gym classes." I said, "but he doesn't teach in a class, thank God, because I've got an excuse now. Well he doesn't teach in a class and I can't afford private lessons. And mostly it was the idea that I just didn't want to be there. It was just like there was too much ... and partly it was that I started there before I started therapy. This is another thing. And like now I am changing. And now I don't want to see the same people that knew me when I was really hung up and couldn't communicate because they're not going to change with. They're not going to see that all of a sudden I'm a little bit different. They're not going to see it. They're going to think that I'm still the same old, you know, whatever. And I think it's a lot easier. Maybe it's the easy way out, like start anew someplace where like I am starting to build now.
COUNSELOR: It's almost like they trap you into or set you into being, send you into being the old way.
PATIENT: Yeah. It doesn't inspire me to go back because again, it's like they're talking to me, but like my girlfriend is very sexy, my girlfriend is very ... like lots of people really like her. But it's like I don't like the idea of walking into a class and everybody saying, "Oh hi, how are you? OH, where's so-and-so? How is she? When is she having another party?" And all ... you know, not like "When are you two having another party?" because I LIVE with her! And I was co-hostess of the last party. But it's just like ... I don't know. Or one of them said, "When are you two having another party?" and I said, "Well I don't know, it depends on what dates Jodie can figure out too." He says, "Oh, well she runs all the plans? Well maybe I better talk to her." Things like, you know, like ...
COUNSELOR: Dragging your past in front of you. [0:58:09.7]
PATIENT: Yeah. That partly, and partly that I didn't like the way it was said, even at the time. You know, like, "Well then maybe I'd better go talk to her as long as she makes all the plans." Well she does make most of the plans for judo parties. And she does know these people lots better than I do. So like, when I said that, I just, I didn't mean that I don't do anything, I just meant that she usually decides the date of the party, whenever she's not busy and whenever everybody can come. And then it's fine. But I didn't like that, and I thought to myself, "Well look, if I have to go through this all the time now and have to start PROVING myself that I'm ... like I can give and ... I'd still be competing with her because like people put us in the same categories too because we're roommates. Which is bad too, they seem to compare us. I've seen this. They don't compare Eliza and Jodie, but they seem to compare me and Jodie because we live together. And I said to myself, "Oh Jesus, I don't need that kind of stuff. I'd be a lot better off just going out on my own."
COUNSELOR: And having your own friends.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I mean it's fine, if they want to have a party or whatever, fine. I'll be there and I'll help out. And if I see these people just socially, that's fine too. Like we'll probably be going out Saturday night, my friends from running, my two friends, we'll probably go out Saturday night. But it's just like, it's a nice feeling to know that I can have my own friends and I don't have to fall back on her friends and sort of be like the extra, and that's the way I've always felt with her, you know, like, "You're here because you're my roommate and it's a nice thing to be ... to do or whatever to help you out because you're such a poor little kitten, you can't get any of your own friends so like, here's some of mine." I mean it's a nice thought of sharing, but it's like saying, "Well, you can't get them any other way so ... (inaudible)"
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like a sharing, but it sure is a put down at the same time. 1:00:00.7
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. Like for a long time I didn't realize that I used to think it was so nice and I couldn't understand why I felt almost again inferior because like naturally her friends would care more about her than me, even if I was ...
COUNSELOR: You WERE inferior somehow. I mean, I don't mean that in the same sense but the situation was [set up so that] (ph) you would HAVE to be that way.
PATIENT: Well ... yeah, it would be like ... right. Right. Right, because if you're really close to somebody as a friend and you just meet somebody ... first of all you just meet somebody new that you've never met before, you can't really like them that much because you don't know them. So it would always make me feel that way, like "Oh, s***, here I sit." Sometimes somebody might be nice and say, "Oh, how are you doing? Are you still with us? Oh that's good." And then go back to talking to her. And it's just like ... and then I try to put on the big intellectual front so that at least I might look smart or something. Maybe then they'd look at me or talk to me. 
It's like ... it was really bad. Now that I'm kind of branching out and getting my own people that I talk to and that, it's not half as bad. And one thing I really thought was good for me which, is starting to come is like last week, I remember we were joined by some other people and this one fellow was talking to Chrissie a lot and things like this, and talking also to James, and they weren't talking lots to me. The funny thing is, though, this week they guy got kind of bombed and I heard him say, "Hey look at the blonde ..." I had my blonde wig on ... "the blonde over there with the ... she's sexy." And I heard it. He didn't mean me to hear it. He was talking ... "She's one of the sexiest girls." And I thought to myself, "(inaudible) You won't talk to me all last week, and then you come up with this other guy and you're telling him how sexy I am. You hardly paid any attention in terms of talking to me, but I guess like what it was, was he didn't want to because he didn't want me to know that he whatever, thought I was sexy or feminine or whatever it was. And so part of this makes me think that sometimes people put on a front that really isn't there for other people and sometimes they shun you and it's not really because they shun you, it's that they're attracted to you, because I've done the same thing to fellows I've liked I kind of don't pay too much attention, it's like out of the corner of the eye, you know, like, wow! But ... [1:02:21.4]
COUNSELOR: We have to stop.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: But what I want to say about what you were saying before was that it seems like you're able to see now that the way you live and the situations that kind of reinforce whatever feeling you're having then, like you were saying that about your sister and you were saying that about the situation with Jodie and the way it was and kind of seeing, that's kind of how you set it up, so that you ... do you see what I mean? That you keep hanging on ... it's almost like it was in the situation, you felt inferior, but you were also living in this place where you couldn't HELP but feel inferior, because you didn't have your own friends. 
END TRANSCRIPT
