TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session 12.
CLIENT: Just got through seeing that thing at the Clark (sp?) they have there? It's four Clint Eastwood pictures?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: I saw two of them. Hang on to the seat a second.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
CLIENT: It's amazing, how they can put so much stuff in movies; that it never really was like that and never really will be. Like how they portray Clint Eastwood as not having a very good moral character, but that he would always do everything fair, you know, like the bad guys would always get theirs at the end. Well, he would see that going on, and it's not like that. I mean it gives you a false sense of justice watching that film there.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? It portrays that like the bad guys always get caught in the end or something? I'm not feeling good.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, and there's a whole bunch of things. Like not necessarily the bad guys get caught, but like anybody who has any hint of corruption in their mind usually ends up getting shot by this guy, you know, somehow. Or else, if he doesn't shoot him, he'll plan it so that he does get shot. That's a very intricate plotting there, and supposedly he took all the credit for it, you know. Like just the way he would maneuver these two feuding families into making him rich and killing each other off at the same time. [2:37]
And then I think the biggest thing is that he doesn't play by the rules, you know. He makes up his own rules, and that doesn't work either.
COUNSELOR: Umm-hmm. But to the movie - you mean in the movie it acts like it works, but it doesn't really work that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. People might not let you make up your own rules, you have to live by theirs. Two days ago I was sitting in my girl's house talking to her. Not really talking, but we were sitting there anyway, and I told her I felt kind of crummy. And the more we talked the worse I felt, until finally I just started crying, and I cried for a long time like that. Just seemed like everything was going wrong all at one time.
COUNSELOR: You mean that things were all piling up when you talked to each other? [5:23]
CLIENT: Yeah. I just felt like I just couldn't take it anymore. It was getting to the place where I had three alternatives. Like I could cry, or I could get very hard and cold and start fighting everything, or I could just get stoned or something.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. But things were building up so that you had to do
something  -
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: - to get the pressure off.
CLIENT: And I felt too beat to fight and I had no way of getting stoned, so the last alternative was the only one that resulted. I feel like sometimes if I wasn't violent in some way that it would feel better for me, like a pressure situation where I had to do something there that was expected of me. If I became violent it would be easier for me but then  -
COUNSELOR: Be easier; easier how?
CLIENT: Easier just to face it all the time. If I could blow my stack that would  -
COUNSELOR: If you could what?
CLIENT: If I could blow my stack it would be easier to do something there. I don't know how.
COUNSELOR: Somehow that would release something inside of you? [7:54]
CLIENT: Yeah. But I missed Danny moving to the Navy this weekend, and found out he's been dropping acid and hitting up the speed, assorted other little drugs. And he decided that he's going to spend the weekend without drugs. And it almost seemed like he's in approximately the same situation, except he already didn't get stoned. I got to really understand the way he thinks, because I think just about the same, and then understand that I know the position. And he's already tried getting stoned or speeding or tripping, and it's just messing him up really and he knows it.
Like we went out driving Saturday night and had gotten into a situation where he had to think really fast while we were driving or keep from creating an accident, you know, and he couldn't do it, because he had a flashback. I guess that usually happens when you're under stress, or sometimes that's - And that really shook him up and he kind of saw that he couldn't get stoned anymore because it was really - it was killing him, sooner or later it would have, and so he decided to stop.
So instead of that he started getting violent, like he'd drive real wild. And the least little thing anybody said, he'd be ready to practically kill him. Or somebody laughed at his uniform, he'd be ready to, you know, get out and (inaudible at 10:02). Like one guy he did; he jumped out of the car, ran over to the guy, slapped him in the face, and just stood there waiting for the guy to do something. I don't know what he would have done. And I don't think he ever had control of himself. And the guy didn't really say anything. And that kind of made it so clear to me that, you know, I couldn't do that.
COUNSELOR: You couldn't do that? [10:41]
CLIENT: No. It's impossible.
COUNSELOR: There's something within you that keeps you from doing that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just not made that high.
COUNSELOR: But then in certain ways you'd like to be, you'd like to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You'd like to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe that's why I watched this Clint Eastwood movie. I heard this DJ on the radio who said he wanted to see all of them; that it was kind of an endurance test, sitting through eight hours of framing (sp?) Clint Eastwood. He says he kills everyone in sight, you know, making little comments about the movies and stuff. I don't know, maybe that kind of incited me to go and see it, just to get some of the violence out of me, or just to see what it does or just need to scare myself, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. But to see it put out in a movie...
CLIENT: All through the movie I just sat there looking down, almost rigid, because I could almost feel myself in the same place; what it's like to hold a gun and to swirl the revolver part of it.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. You could imagine yourself pulling the handle.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Killing all these people. [11:58]
CLIENT: That's funny. He doesn't really kill them. He puts himself in a position where there's a choice and somebody has to die, and it always seems that it's not him. But he - it's very subtle, really. He just gets in positions like that.
COUNSELOR: But you could imagine yourself getting in positions like that, as him.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not really inciting them and not really doing anything to provoke them, but they just kind of come on.
COUNSELOR: Somehow they're there.
CLIENT: And this one where he steals this guy's girlfriend, takes her back to her husband, because the guy stole his girlfriend from the husband in the first place, tells him to get out of the country and then go. He then proceeds to kill four other guys that he stole the girlfriends from, four of his men, and it went (snapping fingers three times) you know, like that. Then he goes back to the town and they find him somehow. They almost kill him by beating him up. So he hides in this casket. He has this undertaker taking care of him in some mine somewhere. And they burn down the whole town looking for him. They kill about 40 people, just trying to find this guy, because the boyfriend was so mad at him. [13:33]
And about a week later, the guy recovers and he comes back. You know, it's really funny how he comes back too, because half the town is burned down and all that's left is the family of this one guy who is the boyfriend. There was kind of a power structure in the family; everybody was fast on the gun.
And so before he comes back he blows off some dynamite next to the town and it creates a dust storm, and he just walks into this dust storm and when the dust clears, there he's standing, it's really beautiful, and he proceeds to kill six of them. He does it very intricately. He doesn't just come out and kill them. Five of them draw on him so he kills the five. And then the sixth guy he kills because he knows the guy only aims for the heart, and so he puts a metal plate over his heart. So he keeps aiming for the heart with this Winchester rifle that the guy was supposed to be fabulous with. He always hit the same spot, right in the heart, except it didn't go through the plate. And when the guy emptied his gun, the guy shot him. It was really funny. It wasn't so funny really; it was kind of horrifying. [15:02]
COUNSELOR: There was something about the whole thing that made you very tense watching it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like the people that were - even though maybe they had the law on their side, they turned out that they had paid for their shifty dealings and that. And I think of all the - oh, I don't know. Like I think of the public officials - this is a really big hang-up with me - I think of public officials and somebody's always bringing up conflict of interest charges. And it's so obvious that that's the only reason they're in public service is to make money. Like school board president - oh I forget, what's his name? He just died. And they mentioned in the newscast that he was also a president of a realty firm and I wonder how they - he made something out of that. There's no way he couldn't.
COUNSELOR: You said it's a hang-up of yours. Do you mean it's something that always makes you angry?
CLIENT: Yeah, it makes me mad that in the movies the guys get it. In real life, they come off shining.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. The guys who are supposed to be so good in real life, that are really so crooked underneath, somehow make it.
CLIENT: But not in the movies. In the movies the guy that looks crooked that's really a nice guy, he's the guy that makes it. In real life, he's the guy that gets screwed.
COUNSELOR: But what bugs you is that in real life - yeah right, it doesn't work that way.
CLIENT: I think I viewed myself that way while I was robbing that stupid jewelry store. [17:09]
COUNSELOR: Viewed yourself how?
CLIENT: Like Robin Hood; take from the rich, give to the poor.
COUNSELOR: Like taking it from corrupt people anyway and almost doing a service in a way?
CLIENT: Well, nobody else is going to do it.
COUNSELOR: Doing something that nobody else would dare to do?
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe I watch too many movies. And my trial's going to be the 24th or the 28th or something like that. Call my lawyer today. So that ought to be interesting to see what happens, to say the least.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's not very far off, is it?
CLIENT: No. Still seems as if every turning turns out wrong on the story and I'm really seeing the bad side of things. [19:15]
COUNSELOR: But it sure seems like everything is going that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like my friend in the Navy. He can walk into any bar and be served, and he really looks like he's about 60. And I don't look that young. I don't look very old. I don't even look 19. I look more like 17. But still, he can walk into a bar and be served and I can walk in anyplace and they won't even look at me. Where's your ID, kid? That made me mad, trying to buy some alcohol.
COUNSELOR: That people don't even think you look like an adult?
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I finally sold two of those stupid engines I was trying to sell, and I only got half of what I expected for them. And the guy that was going to give me what I expected for them didn't bother to call back like the other four people like (inaudible at 20:29) that called but didn't bother to call back. And when the guy comes to pick it up, pick both of them up, there's a real big hassle about the title and everything and the bill of sale and the receipt. It was a big mess, and my dad got into it because I was still a minor and he had to sign. The guy sold it to his father, got into it, and it was just a big mess, and that really got me mad.
COUNSELOR: That it was so complicated? [21:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, just to sell a stupid engine. And then another thing, you know. They can draft you or they can put you through court, but they can - I don't know if they can sue you or not when you're 19. I don't know. They can do all kinds of stuff to you. But you can't even sell them. I don't know, maybe my old man is wrong.
COUNSELOR: And you're saying all kinds of things can happen to you, you're old enough for those things, but you're not old enough to even sell an engine.
CLIENT: I'm thinking, I don't know, this kind of leads into the train of thought; how they give you the right to vote when you're 18 supposedly, if it's not over (inaudible at 22:08). I wonder if any other people feel like that.
COUNSELOR: Like what?
CLIENT: They finally give you the right to vote, but all this other stuff is really so rotten that you don't even want to vote any more, because you don't care because you've been screwed too many times by laws. And I can't say that I have been really messed up by laws. They haven't helped me any.
COUNSELOR: But you feel very messed up and controlled by them, so much that it doesn't even matter to you whether you can vote. [22:56]
CLIENT: I mean I can't even make out with my girl in a car without being stopped by a cop.
COUNSELOR: We don't need that freedom, do we?
CLIENT: It's very easy for me to see why people want a revolution.
COUNSELOR: Because sometimes you feel that way yourself.
CLIENT: I usually feel that way. In fact, if I wouldn't have robbed a store, I think I probably would have bombed a bank, which is really the same thing; take away its principal source of (inaudible at 23:57) or blow it up, same difference.
COUNSELOR: But then the bank kind of represents to you some of the things that are wrong.
CLIENT: Yeah. I read a book once about banks, how banks get to be banks, and actually what runs this country. I think it's just one of these muckraker stories, but I really don't think so, because it made pretty much sense. It was a book about the Federal Reserve System, which is really not Federal enough; it's owned by 13 private banks who completely own all the stock in it. The stock has never been made public. They control interest rates. They control everything in this whole stupid country, including money in the country, which they issue at will. They control the value of the money; they control everything about it. And this country is built around money so that means that this country has got a good foundation on a whole bunch of banks. [25:16]
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like part of bombing a bank, part of the satisfaction in that, was getting back at these people.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. If I ever get out of this mess I'm going to get as far away as I can possibly get; I think maybe to Alaska. I know a few people that went there; there's very few laws there.
COUNSELOR: But you're going somewhere where you can get away from under these laws.
CLIENT: Canada's pretty nice too; they don't have too many laws. I was thinking about going to Montana or Wyoming or Idaho, but then it's probably set up the same way as around here, with building codes and zoning ordinances and all different eagle legal tricks that they can pull in. It's amazing how people can stand to live like that. [27:01]
COUNSELOR: Because it's like you can hardly stand it, to live pushed down by all these laws.
CLIENT: The longer I live here, the more laws I find out exist. And most of the laws really - if people would use their sense and their brains and just kind of respect for each other, we wouldn't need 90 percent of the laws we have. And then they just keep passing them. And the people that keep passing them don't know what's going on either so just the ones they do pass are useless. Like this Dick - new constitution they just wrote for L&amp;I.; Some of the delegates said they couldn't even understand it. How could the taxpayer possibly understand it? That it was the biggest mess they'd ever seen. I haven't even seen it. I'm kind of suspicious that they are probably right.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel disgusted with that, the whole process of the way laws are done?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I can really see why people like to blow up buildings.
COUNSELOR: Like to what?
CLIENT: Like to blow up buildings.
COUNSELOR: Sometimes you think it would just be a tremendous relief just to blow up a building.
CLIENT: Like a bank or a courthouse or a draft house. I don't think I could. [29:00]
COUNSELOR: You say that regretfully.
CLIENT: No, I'd probably just get caught, and then I'd be in a worse fix than I am now.
COUNSELOR: It'd be fun to do it, but it wouldn't be worth the price you'd probably have to pay?
CLIENT: Not worth the risk. Did you read that story about that Elrod and Flanagan? (sp?)
COUNSELOR: Which story?
CLIENT: During the riots last year, with that corporation counsel guy.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 29:54)
CLIENT: (Inaudible 29:56) and they'd find him innocent as I recall. Even if he did  -
COUNSELOR: But you like to see people get away with - like that.
CLIENT: And whether he's innocent or guilty, I don't know. He walked out of the courtroom and his right hand just did the finger. Guy seems really cool to me.
COUNSELOR: The fact that he would walk out defiantly, you mean? [30:35]
CLIENT: Um-hmm. He says, "We're going to go right back and start doing what we were doing before." Amazing. I would say that I kind of patterned my life a little bit after what I thought was really a neat saying; it went something like they told me to continue what I was doing, to spread joy and revolution.
COUNSELOR: Just what? [31:49]
CLIENT: To spread joy and revolution. And I would think to myself, that's pretty neat, you know. And I'd think, why don't I add something to that, you know? I'll tell you something, well, why don't I just like - in that order. You know, it's really joy first. The revolution can wait.
COUNSELOR: That sounds like a way you've got to live.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I still do live that way. You know, sometimes I don't think that way. But it really doesn't do anything.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? It really doesn't have an effect or what do you  -
CLIENT: Yeah. It seems to me like the world is suffering from an epidemic of hate and no matter what I do I'm going to catch it.
COUNSELOR: You're going to get some of that hate, put it with you.
CLIENT: And it just makes me want to get away from everything, because sooner or later hate destroys itself.
COUNSELOR: You mean if you could get far enough away from it, out of its range  -
CLIENT: Yeah, that's it.
COUNSELOR: So eventually it will die out.
CLIENT: And maybe most of the human race with it. But man, you know, I wouldn't be part of that. I don't know how.
COUNSELOR: But now you feel like part of a victim of that. [33:56]
CLIENT: Um-hmm. And the way things are set up. That's just it, things are set up. Everything has got to be done in a certain way.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean by that?
CLIENT: Like laws and courts.
COUNSELOR: That there's all these rules  -
CLIENT: And bridges. (sp?)
COUNSELOR: - that we have to follow, to live under.
CLIENT: And your parents telling you it's not nice to go around with black people because they're dirty.
COUNSELOR: Even your parents' rules.
CLIENT: That's where you get most of it.
COUNSELOR: And you feel pressure from all the dirty rules too. And that some of that hatred gets to you through those rules.
CLIENT: Sooner or later, yeah. But it just seems like the more I see, the less I want to see, so the more I kind of close my eyes.
COUNSELOR: It all seems so bad to you, it's a disillusion. [35:32]
CLIENT: So I just kind of pretend I'm stoned or something. Or just pretend to walk down the street and not see people that can't afford shoes. Or somebody's got a car accident or something. Or just drive by people with flat tires and not a spare. Or when somebody waves hi, you just pretend you don't see. That's sick. I think it's like it's contagious. When you stop looking at the hate you stop looking at the love too.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. When you say it's contagious, do you mean pick up some of that hate yourself?
CLIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No?
CLIENT: The hate makes a reaction. Like I would react against the hate by - I can't get away from it so I just shut it out, but at the same time I'm shutting out the good parts and the wrong too.
COUNSELOR: I see what you mean. You have to shut out everything.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, I hear you saying that you have to shut out that hate though, at least sometimes, in order to protect yourself from the intensity of it.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. I just keep putting up with it. I could pay two parking tickets today. Why must we parking - for getting there five minutes after the cop wrote the ticket, in a place by the Esquire Theater, where the movies usually run 2 to 2-1/2 hours. Takes you a minute to walk to your car and back, so there's no way possible that you can use a 2-hour meter and not get a ticket. That's all they have for two miles around there is 2-hour meters. And so you've just got to accept the fact that if you go and see a movie you're going to get a ticket. [38:37]
And then I went curling Saturday in Evanston, and parked in a place where everybody else had their trailers and boats and everything, and I didn't have a trailer because I put the cooler on top of the car. And so they gave me a ticket for that, because I didn't have a trailer, and I didn't have one of them wonderful little state stickers. So I mean the more I do, the more I get round (sp?) and the more laws I see and the more I get screwed.
COUNSELOR: You keep getting screwed by all these laws that seem more and more unfair to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then they put out on us as an answer, the people who make the laws, well, we should have more laws to protect you against things like that.
COUNSELOR: And you think the last thing in the world that I need is more laws.
CLIENT: I need protection from the laws. I finally got my logic back the other night when I finished that Bertrand Russell book. The arguments he uses, well, he doesn't really use them; it's just plain sense, you know. Like some people use arguments, but he doesn't. It's just they're there and you look at them. And they're not there to manipulate you, they're just there. And you look at it and you can accept it, or if you can find a way in your mind you reject it. That's almost impossible because he's at your brain. [40:46]
COUNSELOR: And they seem very self-evident.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you agree with it.
CLIENT: Most of it, yeah. And he was throwing out examples of how short-term childless marriages for young people would, very probably, reduce divorce rate, the rate of people getting killed and love triangles, eliminate adultery, and make people generally, on the whole, much happier, and for this he was called a messenger of the devil, corruptor of the young.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: He was almost charged with inciting violation of the people code of New York. It's amazing.
COUNSELOR: You must have been reading the same book I was (inaudible at 42:04) too.
CLIENT: "Why I am not a Christian."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. In fact, it sounds like it seems to you another example of somebody who's really not doing anything being screwed all the time. [42:17]
CLIENT: All he wants to do is teach, and that's really not a very good profession when it comes to making money. I suppose it's a very rewarding profession, but people on the outside don't see that.
COUNSELOR: But it looks to you like he wasn't hurting anybody, and yet he really got screwed.
CLIENT: In fact, by trying to help, by using his mind to the extent of showing a sound line, or at least just saying it, that maybe things would be better if you did it a little bit different.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that is somewhat close to the way that you feel about yourself; it's like you aren't really hurting anybody, and yet you're really being screwed and it makes you feel bitter.
CLIENT: Yeah. It also makes it very clear that it's not really worth trying to make anything better now, because it's just there and it's not going to change from anything I do about it. [44:08]
COUNSELOR: And you feel pretty helpless to do anything about it and like giving up.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. Wonder if maybe this world needs some dying.
COUNSELOR: You mean to get rid of  -
CLIENT: - a few billion people. It seems the only way right now.
COUNSELOR: The only way to rid the world of all the hate that's in it, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because the hate isn't collective hate, it is individual hate, and you can't just adopt a law that will wipe out hate or have a revival and have everyone change. Because it's too big of a heart of too many people and they actually live for it. [46:14]
COUNSELOR: In comparison with all that hate, you feel like a very small little bit of all that, like nothing you do could ever make any difference.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then sometimes I think, well, that's only the way you feel now. Because look, at least you can get along with a few people around you that make life a little bit more livable for them. And I think compared to what's needed, what's needed compared to what I can do, it's so much different. It's like you'd have to have a microscope just to see an effort of mine in there, let alone a result.
COUNSELOR: So what's needed is to change the whole world, and you can only do a very, very small bit.
CLIENT: Yeah. I usually don't end up doing that very good. [48:01]
COUNSELOR: Even that little bit you mean.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You're disappointed in how you do that too?
CLIENT: Maybe not in how I do it, but in what happens. Like in other people the hate just builds up too.
COUNSELOR: So even when you try you can't really make much difference in them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But is that true of some people that you are thinking of now?
CLIENT: Not people on a whole or anything. I'm thinking of like my friend in the Navy. I think it was really good for him to be able to talk for once now, because he felt like he could talk without having so many of the heavy struggles all of the time, and I could talk to him too. But it really didn't help him any; he was just as violent. He was just as depressed at times.
COUNSELOR: And you did what you could for him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it seemed like something good, but then he was still depressed, and then you felt like you hadn't really done him any good.
CLIENT: Not any. It did do him some good, just to be around, around a friend. But it will go away, that's the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: But what? [50:03]
CLIENT: Any minor influence I may have had on him is completely whitewashed in the environment now. I mean not whitewashed, just covered over, washed out.
COUNSELOR: You think what you do is so little in comparison to all the other things that have happened.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's also really temporary. In fact, it's not even anything at all. And I think sometimes I'm usually really nice to my girl. And sometimes when I can be really nice she can have a really bad day at work, and a lot of people ride her at work and make her do a lot of stuff she shouldn't have to do; she's a nurse's aide. And there is just no way that we're going to get along that evening.
COUNSELOR: No way that you're going to what?
CLIENT: If that happens, you know, when she has a really bad day, there is just no way that we're going to get along for that evening.
COUNSELOR: You mean nothing you can do can make that a pleasant evening when she's had a bad day at work.
CLIENT: Yeah, and sometimes that goes for days with her.
COUNSELOR: So you feel powerless, really. It's like at the mercy of how her work day goes.
CLIENT: Or how much her mother yells at her when she gets up in the morning.
COUNSELOR: You just have to wait and see each time you see her, what kind of mood she's going to be in.
CLIENT: Yeah. I never know what to expect, you know. So I think I've stopped expecting her good mood. [52:13]
COUNSELOR: You can't expect a good mood and you can't hope for that, because you always have to take into consideration it might be a really bad day for her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So that means you can't be quite at ease whenever you really see her either.
CLIENT: Or want to. Yup, it's just the way you think about it, I guess. [54:17}
COUNSELOR: Which thing are you thinking of?
CLIENT: Everything.
COUNSELOR: You mean that it still feels like they're bearing down on you, like it's pretty miserable. [54:37}
CLIENT: Don't remind me. I think I'm finally facing the fact no matter what happens to me I might have to do it alone. I'm going to have to live alone. [57:24]
COUNSELOR: And that's a fairly hard thing to face, and still is?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe I've known it all the time.
COUNSELOR: Maybe what?
CLIENT: Maybe I've known it all the time but it's just kind of clear to me now.
COUNSELOR: Which things are you talking about or who?
CLIENT: Like my entire life.
COUNSELOR: Well, whatever it is you're talking about, it sounds like a very painful thing to realize or somehow related to I don't quite know what. But you are really alone in certain ways?
CLIENT: Um-hmm. First it was painful, but now it's not so much painful anymore. That's why it's easier to face. It's just kind of different. I think what it is, I always kind of thought that way and I've always kind of regretted it. That's why I wanted some people out of me so much. Like really close, not just like party time people. But now it seems like I'm not fighting it anymore; that's the way it's going to be. [59:50]
COUNSELOR: I'm unclear of what it is that's made you realize that.
CLIENT: I think maybe my girl running to school (inaudible at 60:09). And the guy I talk to a lot in the next building is moving in October. My friend is back in the Navy in Philly. The girl I talked to in the hospital is about to split for California.
COUNSELOR: So it's all these people who are leaving you.
CLIENT: Yeah, and maybe I'll be in jail pretty soon too. That had a big thing to do with it. And then there's not going to be anybody to hold your hand in jail or make a joke to cheer you up.
COUNSELOR: Hmm?
CLIENT: Or to make a joke to cheer you up. Or to tell you about their troubles, because maybe they've had it worse than you; that kind of takes your mind off of it too. But in jail it's totally different. [61:32]
COUNSELOR: And you see aloneness of it.
CLIENT: Even outside it's that way. I think how long it's taken aim and now how really accidental it was that I came about freeing my friends, my girl, and it seems highly improbable, that it will no longer happen to me.
COUNSELOR: You mean it seems like these friends and this girl, you were just very fortunate, as if by chance, that you were all (inaudible at 62:23)
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And that won't happen again, or very unlikely.
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: I think this is time for us to stop.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh one less year to go.
COUNSELOR: Thursday at 7:30; how's that?
CLIENT: That's fine. That sounds fine. Good bye.
COUNSELOR: Good bye. [63:24]
END TRANSCRIPT
