TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client 0324-006 Session Number four, 1970. Client 0324-006 Session Number four. How are you? [That awful blank moment, huh?] (ph)


PATIENT: Exactly. I was up all night writing I'm just really, really out of it. And sort of, too exhausted to be feeling. I don't know where to begin, as usual (ph). I mean in a way I think this is a really good time to be coming to therapy and that, I'm kind of in a stage which I keep getting at which I was at exactly this time last year. I do not know where I'm going and sort of like fixing up my room. And just doing a completely redecorating job and everything else settling and starting a new way of life. And at the same time not knowing what I'm going to be doing and kind of having one thing over with (inaudible). And, it's really being nondirected as far as which way to start heading. And, as a result of which, I just feel really lost I mean there's just really no structure out there.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like making motions for something new like the redecorating and that kind of thing but not knowing what's going to go in there. 0:02:06.0


PATIENT: Well now the actual motions were like, like I spent all weekend just decorating (ph) my own room so that it would be just the way I wanted it as far as a place for all sorts of projects that I really want to start that I never that I always sort of put off, like soap making and things that are not academic. Which I've never had had time to do because I waste all my time worrying about the academic stuff I have to do. And also a place where to put all my academic stuff so that I can sort of sit down and have it nice and organized and get it out of the way. And I felt so good when I did that. I mean this was Sunday night I guess and it was like I knew I had to go to work early Monday morning and I know I needed a good night sleep but it was something I couldn't stop because it was such a high. And it came out just really nice as far as not only looking good but mainly being functional as far as it being something I had created for me to work in. Like I had set up a whole framework. Mainly bookcases piled all over the place but they were just ideal for for all sorts of things like I could do. It was like I had opened up a setting in which I could at last function and be myself and that I had made it myself like this being the first room that I had really decorated and had to myself ever I think since I've been out of college anyway. And it was so good. And, like all you know I had this really and this is the kind of thing that happens at times like this that are, where there is no clear directions to what I'm working towards or on or anything else. Is that I'll I'll find a pathway or something that I really enjoy doing or going to be directed towards or that I feel like I got a grip on something mainly just the decorating my room. And I'll be on a tremendous high and I'll feel like I can do anything. And I'll start doing everything.


COUNSELOR: Um hmm.


PATIENT: And, but in the same period of time you know like fluctuating within just a couple of days and sometimes even a couple of hours, something will happen and it can be even really minor and I'll just completely collapse and then not have any motivation to do anything. And like it, it was kind of that way all weekend like I would really really fluctuate. And I saw I saw my boyfriend Saturday I guess or Friday, I guess it was Friday. And I felt, I was (inaudible) I knew I was going to do a whole lot that weekend and I was really, I have this kind of really strong dependency thing with him. I mean that's he's scared of him being very afraid to talk to me about anything serious. Him having been the one that kind of kept my pills away from me last year when I really felt like killing myself and stuff like that. But it being such a responsibility on him like he's really scared of me. And he sees me as he doesn't know when I'm clingy and when I'm not.


COUNSELOR: Is that clear for you when you are and when you're not? 0:05:38.7


PATIENT: Yes, it's very clear for me. If I'm really depressed then I'm really clingy. And I really need him and yet can't talk to him because I know at the same time what it's going to do to him and it will make me more depressed. On but like Friday night, I had we'd had some kind of a I guess a good and a bad week last week which I kind of brought up the other day or like whatever day I saw you, Wednesday I guess. But, by Friday I'd just made up my mind I didn't need to see him. I was resigned to the fact that he had moved and he had his own place and I was perfectly fine. I wasn't going to see him on Friday and I just happened to be going up to pick up a good friend of mine from out of town and which was another good thing because it was a guy that I knew and was just a really good friend and was another way I was separate from my boyfriend. And, on my way back from the airport I was passing this office where my boyfriend was having this really late meeting and I knew he offered me a ride back to this part of town so I just called him before I left and said, "Do you want me to just take you back?" And he said, "Yeah" and I was, it was fine all I was going to do was take him and drop him off at his house and I was really glad to see him because I was, in that I was you know didn't need to see him. I felt like I was really on in good spirits. And I had a really nice long talk with this friend on my way back from the airport and stuff like that (inaudible) my boyfriend. And it ended up being really late by the time I got back so I didn't have time to talk to this friend. I had to just drop him off at where he was staying. And then I went to drop my boyfriend off and except, he kind of indicated that he was going to come over. And I didn't really care I was just really tired. Except that just by his indicating that that, that maybe he would come over or that he wanted I guess what came through was that by sort of deciding that he would come over, I hadn't asked him and obviously didn't need him. But he, evidently this hadn't gotten through to him. (inaudible) sometimes I think. He sort of felt that I expected him to come over so he was gong to come over. But the message that I got from him was, you know he just wanted to. For once he didn't feel obligated to and he wanted to. This was great, like this was just an added high.


PATIENT: Yeah. 0:08:23.1


COUNSELOR: And I thought fine and so we went to pick up some stuff at his house, get his mail or something like that. And I said, "You don't feel like you have to stay?" and he said sort of, "Well are you sure you're going to be alright?" And then I realized that well I've even (inaudible) today was that I was he was worried about me and he felt really responsible for me. Then he really didn't want to stay.


PATIENT: Like you had misperceived (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: And I had completely misperceived it. At which point you know like crash. Where as I had been fine and nice and (inaudible) which I felt all that night this really strong evidence that that, on the way I was that I couldn't just have a nice really good relationship, equal relationship with him. Just and and that it was my fault.


PATIENT: How is that your fault?


COUNSELOR: In that I mean I had really so scared him from being because I'd been dependent and because in a lot of ways he hadn't. I mean I was really screwed up. I was doing all kind of really out the way things and I really was suicidal. And, he knew that things that he would do just by making me upset would in a sense trigger this. They weren't in any way directly the cause but, just by being an emotional figure for me...


PATIENT: He held a lot of power.


COUNSELOR: ...he held a lot of power. And, and so then of course he would feel responsible when I would do something because he made me mad or upset or because he didn't come through when I wanted him to or something like that. And, this is not the role that I wanted at all. Anyway I mean that just, like I was just so I was just so nice and strong and he said, "Are you sure you're going to be alright? And I said, "Yes." Because at that point I couldn't have said anything else because it would of like I would have then made him come over which I didn't want either. But I also knew damn well I wasn't alright and I was really messed up. And I just said goodbye to him and dropped him off and was damn glad I didn't know anyplace I could drive off bridge at that point because I really felt like it. I mean I just felt like driving until until I couldn't drive any farther. Expect I feel (inaudible) and couldn't have anyplace to drive. I needed some nice country or mountain road or anything else I would have just taken off to. 0:11:16.8


COUNSELOR: I'm wondering like I realize I'm interrupting but I wanted to...


PATIENT: No please do.


COUNSELOR: Because I wanted to get something clear because I hear you saying about this thing with your boyfriend like, "I feel very responsible for his attitude towards me. I've laid it on him so often that he is that he can really do things to me or his importance to me means he can hurt me." I wondering like, it suddenly hit him how did it how did it feel at that point to be seen only as a only in the aspect of yourself that are like sick or dangerous or something like that.


PATIENT: Well that's that's what was so wrong.


COUNSELOR: That was the thing that he...


PATIENT: That that was the only way that he could see me.


COUNSELOR: You're saying, "I've fixed it so he can't see me any other way."


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Okay. And then...


PATIENT: And the very fact that he can't see me any other way then keeps me feeling that way, and keeps me being that way.


COUNSELOR: Not like, and then he says that I mean he says that, "You're sure you'll be alright?" You weren't alright and you did need him in that clingy way.


PATIENT: That right. But I mean I didn't indicate that but the minute he said that it's like I just froze I couldn't say anything. And I had just been absolutely fine. And I don't know it's just, here I went home and I was, I'm really glad that I was absolutely exhausted. I knew I didn't want to kill myself, but then again I knew I really did. And it was like, it was the same kind of thing of doing something (inaudible) times over. And, I don't know like I really, I really like I haven't cut my wrists in a really long time. For one thing it's just, I mean you can't walk around with slit wrists in a hospital when you're working. And for another thing it's just you know would be really dramatic and all that kind of thing and it's really extreme. And I, somehow this time I really felt extreme. I mean like I thought I'm not going to cut I'm not going to kill myself. But if it just sort of happens that I die and that's okay and I really felt that way. And, it's like dammit I started on one wrist and it wouldn't bleed and I got a knife and I still couldn't get it too bleed. Well you know very much, it would bleed a little bit but it wasn't it wasn't like gushing forth which in a sense was what I wanted. I don't know maybe I just wanted to get rid of this part of me somehow and that was a symbolic way of doing it. It's like I got everything ready and I got all my animals cared for and all my responsibilities taken care of and I was really going to just cut both wrists and go to sleep. And if they kept bleeding that was just fine. I really didn't care. And dammit I couldn't even do that. And I got so tired finally that I just sort of gave up but I mean it was nice and cut and everything else but it was...


COUNSELOR: No gushing. Whatever was there didn't just arise (ph) out. 0:14:26.5


PATIENT: I mean by the time, really by the time that that I got so that I realized I needed a lot more force to do it the desire had gone out of me. I mean I was, I was just really exhausted and in a sense had forgotten the emotion that I that I had really felt.


COUNSELOR: Okay let me, let me say something here. It sounds like within in the space of what two hours you ran the gamut of how you can feel from one end to the other. And it sounded like a little earlier when you started talking about this you were saying, "At a time like this I feel as though I have immense amount of energy and drive at my command and I feel like I can really start but it's also very precarious because the least little thing can just collapse that. And I'm not sure something that came to my mind wasn't so it makes me not really trust that energy", but I'm not sure that's there for you or something.


PATIENT: Well, it certainly makes me not trust it. Well, it really makes me wonder if I'm ever going to be capable of functioning because when I get really down, I mean I don't always take it out that way. Then after that everything's fine I mean it was just fine. And, so vague (inaudible) staying a couple of nights. Anyway, like after this really - oh I know what happened kind of - is it kind of continuation with this thing with my boyfriend [has been] (ph) very placid in between. Sunday night I finished, when I finished my room he had borrowed my car all day Sunday and he was he called me and I said, "I've got to get to work at a certain time Monday morning because I have to see a patient." And like usually it doesn't matter when I get there that much. This is one time I really need my car back. If you have to work really late I can go into work up to a half hour late but no more. So you don't have to get it back to me at 7 o'clock you can get it back to me at 8 o'clock but please get it back to me. And so he called me later that night Sunday night and he said, "Don't worry I'll be able to get it back to you tonight." And so while I was finishing - and he said, "Maybe after you're a sleep," he has a key to my house so he can just bring and leave the registration. I said, "That's fine." And to that I was still working on my room and just sort of have thinking well he'll be back I'm sure by the time I'm finished with it. So I imagine he will be because it kept getting later and later. And it was like 12:30 or something like that by the time I finished and I still hadn't heard from him. And [it sounds like I told him that he'd] (ph) come just because I wanted to show him my room. That was all just because I felt really good and I wanted to say, "Look at this. Isn't this great?"


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:17:40.3


PATIENT: And, he didn't come and it didn't bother me because I figured he was just working late at the office and he's got a really bad schedule. And it's like I don't get upset about that at all. And the next morning I got up and got all ready to go to work absolutely exhausted and he didn't show. And I finally called him and he said oh his alarm had gone off at 7:00 and he was home. He hadn't stayed up late (inaudible). And, I sort of he said his alarm had gone off and he didn't know what time it was so he came over. I had waited to the very last minute to call him like quarter to 8:00. And I was supposed to have left at 7:30 or before. And I was like 45 minutes late to work. Which I wouldn't had minded if the reason he had gotten in at 11 o'clock and started talking with his roommate. And talked to 1:00 and decided I was asleep so why bother going over. And, and then, then it didn't bother me so much, except that he knew that there was a good chance I would still be up at 11:00 and that he could have brought the car over and I could have driven him right home and I wouldn't I wouldn't have kept him. And, except that this thing about going back to sleep at 7 o'clock, he's like a really consciousness person and if he had to get to the hospital and help a patient or something like that he'll make it. He'll get up at 5 o'clock and he'll stay up all night. And it's like my job and my being on time is just sort of not so important.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you felt just so easy that he was it was like you were so easy to sweep aside or not (inaudible). 0:19:26.4


PATIENT: Well I just wasn't, I wasn't that important or what I was doing wasn't that important. And, I mean I was just so tired that I really was numb when he finally came over and I just didn't speak to him because I was really mad. Once I just sort of I wasn't mad at first when he came I was a little disturbed that he hadn't gotten there earlier. But I just he picked me up and I dropped him off at his house and I sort of asked him on the way, "What time did you come in last night?" And that was when I found this out that I just, I was just really really mad but also just really kind of sick, physically sick from just being exhausted and from lugging cinder blocks around every day and night and stuff like that. And that was like yesterday morning and I really hadn't spoken to him since except on the phone. He sort of called like you know sort of expecting me to bite his head off and I just, he was in a meeting down town, which was nice and safe for him because he didn't have to see me. And, said he just wanted to see how I was. And I said, "I'm fine. I'm hanging in the room the living room with my roommate but I didn't have anything to tell him." And I was in a really bad mood then and I just didn't even talk to him. And, anyway it was I guess, there's something else there that I - oh I know - it's like in a sense I also can't get mad of him for not coming over Sunday night, because in a sense probably there was always the threat that I would have kept him. And that I would have, you know that he just wasn't up for facing me. He didn't know that I was really in great spirits and that I was perfectly ready to have him drop over with the car registration and for me to drive him right back home. And I think he was really afraid that if he came over when I was still awake I mean I don't think he thought this out but I think I really firmly believe that that's why he didn't come over at 11 o'clock.


COUNSELOR: Maybe he doesn't think about it consciously but there's something (inaudible) in which he feels he's going to get entangled.


PATIENT: There's something. I mean there was something negative about his coming to my house then with the car. And that he was afraid of it. I mean it was just something, you know he didn't have to go right then so why go. It's just something he would just as soon avoid. I haven't brought this up to him or anything else but I kind of thought about during the day on Monday and realized that in that sense I stand up for him to do this. Because he had no way of knowing what he was getting in to. As a result of which I couldn't share with him when I was really good, just because, I'm really glad that he spends a couple of hours talking to his roommate because he doesn't have that much outside social life. And that's certainly much better than him coming over getting stuck with me crying on his shoulder or something like that. And, in a sense I really thought, "Gee I really couldn't have expected you to come over because, I just I just really scared you off." 0:22:41.2


COUNSELOR: Right and I guess what's hitting me about that is it sounds like it feels to you so immovable the way that is now. At least as you've been talking about it tonight it's like, and there you don't see anyway of getting through to him that there are times when you're not like and there are even ways he could tell. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Or he could take a few risks and you'll be very you could be very straight about where you are or something. That sounds like you feel that it's all a closed case now in a sense.


PATIENT: I mean there was a chance that had he come over and said something the wrong way, that I mean the same thing could have happened that happened Friday night mainly. I mean he could have come over, there's something about this coming and feeling ready to be hit, you know kind of expecting it that makes you do something so you get hit. And he could have come over feeling that I was going to be really down, and communicated that to me so strongly non-verbally that I could have reacted really down. And I mean like right now it's like I can't have an equal relationship with him. It's like forget him or have this really sick kind of thing. And I said to him Friday night when he wouldn't come over, or when he didn't want to come over unless I was really bad, I said, "I didn't want to be dependant on him and what I wanted was a kind of separateness together." And he said he really needed the chance to get out and just be by himself which I understood. Except that being by himself meant that there was no way for him to independent and still have you know share things with me because I didn't equal his being independent. I equaled some kind of maybe gnawing kind of force. And he said he just has to be separate for a while except that I said I kind of thought then, "I can't do this." It's got to be kind of an equal separateness and a closeness, or it's got to be just broken off, because I can't stand the emotional close far away kind of thing. It's got to be a really understood response. 0:25:09.7


COUNSELOR: And what I'm hearing is that - I feel as if I'm very analytical about it but I feel like taking pieces and looking at them - it's like, closeness with this guy anyway seems to me like you're only close when you're clinging. That that part of that is that there the way this relationship is now there is you don't see any other way to be close. Is that (inaudible)?


PATIENT: Well I do, but he doesn't. 


COUNSELOR: He doesn't and I'm also getting a feeling strongly that you see a way that, that hypothetically could be could happen but you don't really see it happening. You don't see how it can.


PATIENT: Yeah. It has happened. I mean I have felt it. Like in fact the times that I've felt the closest to him as a boyfriend have been times that I felt really good and like I had something to offer him. Other times I felt I needed him because he was the only person in New York that I could talk to and that knew what was going on. And I needed him as a friend I didn't want him as a boyfriend then. I didn't, that was the last thing I wanted. I needed just to I needed to just to have him there. But as far as a boyfriend kind of relationship, I could only experience it when I was there was really an independence and a mutual respect and all that kind of stuff. And, the times that I have really felt the strongest and the closest to him as a boyfriend have been when I felt really good and when it's been this kind of equal thing.


COUNSELOR: But you're saying those times either gotten through to him or haven't made a dent on him and that really... 0:26:41.8


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean they, it's been, those times have been rare. they've been much more frequent on my part then his seeing them and recognizing them as such and taking advantage of them, of them and such. Mainly responding in like (inaudible) manner. And he's much more likely to see them as, me coming on and needing him again. And therefore lying and therefore destroying the whole original independent feeling that I had. Anyway it's not, I mean it's, in a sense like, I kind of feel like, that it doesn't just happen with him though I can't think of anyone else it happens with exactly that way. Mostly because I'm not really close to anyone else in this city right now. But, it's a really strong feeling of I can't talk to anybody or (inaudible), or I will be using them. And, you know that's not, anyway I guess it's made me really in a sense run from my roommate and from one in particular that I really a lot like expect that she doesn't have this, she's like me before I was I really got this depressed as I have in the last two years and started taking it out in the ways that I have. And feeling that I really couldn't call. But I end up getting, like it was really a strange thing that happened like yesterday all night last night was a combination of this thing with my boyfriend yesterday morning that made me down to start with when I got to work. I really didn't know how I was going to get through the day, because I was just really tired and I knew I wasn't going to be in good shape these reports and stuff. 0:29:02.9


And, then I saw this client, patient client, fantastic guy that on, I was just supposed my supervisor had just decided I'd been asking for a case for a long time that I could work with and it would be, I felt like I could communicate with better and we found this guy that was 24 year old veteran and family problems and really really screwed up and had been through, was going through a lot of things that I'd already been through and mastered believe it or not. And, like I really knew how he felt and I really felt like I could work with him. But, he just he wanted to run and he did. And he just signed out. He was on his way to sign out when I first was supposed to start talking with him before he even met me. And so then I just pointed him to my office and talked to him for a few minutes about what was going on so that I could hopefully, if he wouldn't talk to me which what he really needed was somebody to talk to when there was nobody else there to talk to. If he couldn't talk to me at least get himself in some kind of therapy because I knew what else he was going to go through. He was going to go back to his same thing and get back on drugs. And he said, "If I can't make a go of it okay I might as well get myself really far out on drugs." And probably kill himself or get himself really spaced out. And it was like just sort of letting him go in front of me and not being able to reach out to him and not knowing how to come across to him. It was just really horrible. 


And, I don't know somehow by the time I got home I was just, and I don't really know there's no one thing that caused it. I guess but somehow all I know is that I felt this fantastic animosity towards my roommate. And, not just direct animosity but we had all decide we were going to get together last night and finish painting this room and we're going to make a marathon session of it because we wanted (inaudible) living room. And, all I wanted to do I was really tired but it wasn't just physical tiredness because I was, it was the kind of really despondency. Oh also another thing that happened to me was like, my aunt's friend had called me Sunday. My aunt had called me a couple of days before and said she was in the hospital but she was so spaced out she couldn't even tell me what hospital or anything else so she'd call me Friday night. So that hadn't bothered me I thought, "Great she's in a hospital." And, on Saturday night and then so Sunday night her friend called me and told a whole bunch of things that had been going on and I realized I hadn't been getting a story straight from my aunt. Well I was glad to know what was going on. She was in an addict's treatment ward that I had been trying to get her into for a long time. And I thought, "Gee great this is fine." So my friend, her, my aunt's friend called me Monday and said, "Your aunt just signed out of the hospital today and she's still in really bad shape." She left before the real the doctors she had been so weak and everything the doctors hadn't been able to even begin any therapy or group therapy or anything else so. She finally got just well enough that they were going to start going she was going to go to the first meeting that night and she signed out. And, so I guess I was upset about that except I didn't really think that was just sort of another thing that (inaudible). 0:32:37.6


I know I guess I know what why that bothered me was that somehow I really felt like I was being like my aunt. I was really I mean it was like I was really mad at the world. It was like somehow I had this fantastic strong emotion that I can't really describe except being just completely despondent. And I really felt like killing myself or I really felt like running. All I knew was like I one place that I would just like to take off and go camping by myself because it's just far out in the middle of nowhere. It's a five hour drive and I knew I couldn't have made it last night or I would have gone.


COUNSELOR: Uh hmm.


PATIENT: And I didn't have any other place that I could run to. Also I was really obligated to stay and finish this painting. And at the last and when you do something like that you really want to make it a social occasion. You might as well enjoy it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And, I'm like a really firm believer in that and not being somebody who sits around and pouts and is really in a bad mood and put a real damper on everything. So I just mainly I was just so uptight. And so strongly feeling that I wanted to run and I wanted to kill myself. And, and some point in the middle of this my boyfriend called and that didn't help things. But I mean it wasn't that he said anything wrong it's just I couldn't talk to him either and that was just one more bad thing. So I, so I just kept quiet and I just sort of let the other two girls talk and, because I knew if I said anything it was going to be bad. And I was going to be, oh I was really bitchy and I just hate people who are bitchy. And I realized I was being that way and I just stopped talking at all. And try to stop interacting and just find a little corner to paint and I painted. 0:34:46.4


And yet, all of these and they started talking about plans for things that they would the three of us could do this weekend that we wanted to do and one of my roommates started talking about this dinner that she and I sort of planned to have Friday night. And I thought, "God please don't start talking about it now or making plans for it now because I don't want to be here Friday night. I don't know where I want to go but I want to go." And, again it was like oh and they would, there would be things like they would start talking about jazz and people or even just rock music people we were trying to listen to records or getting something on the radio and I didn't know who they were talking about which she's like, "You're really out of it kid." And, I felt this, this really strong outside-ness kind of feeling that I felt before. And it was so damn strong but it was, it was a feeling that, I mean I knew damn well the only way you're going to not be outside is to start some social contact and to be part of these two roommates who really weren't such good friends anyway. But who were interacting just fine. And I was probably more like each of them then they were like each other but I couldn't do a thing. And, I don't know what I was trying to say. Okay the only way you're going to get out of this and start knowing something about what's going on in the world and places to go and popular records and jazz and stuff like that which I wanted to know about and I wanted that I mean I wanted to be part of that scene. But I just kept having this feeling it's too late. I mean you just can't go back and say please tutor me and tell me what's going on in the world, and tell me all these things that I've missed because I've separated myself from people for so long. I mean to do that would be just to put my roommate right back in my boyfriend's position. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:37:18.3


PATIENT: Me sweet little dependant tag-a-long. And that was the last thing I could do. But I also saw that as the only alternative. Or else, I mean at that point or else just somehow getting rid of this feeling and feeling good and joining in and stuff like that. And I just, also somehow I guess my roommates criticize me for just little things like don't use my, don't leave my radio out or something like that or leave it where I can get it. And it's like, it's was I always felt like a really little child that had been scolded really badly. And I just felt like crying or like yelling.


COUNSELOR: You felt shamed or like really had to defend yourself.


PATIENT: Really and, I didn't well I didn't, then I felt like I had to defend myself and then like last night they borrowed my record player and the records didn't sound right I guess because the needle was bad. And then it was a (inaudible) when I was playing your stereo records and I didn't realize it was such a terrible thing. And I just got the thing came across, "Oh you should never do this it's going to ruin the record." And I said, "Oh I didn't know that." The other roommate sort of chimed in, "You didn't?" As if to say you know...


COUNSELOR: Where have you been?


PATIENT: No it was that, the way she said it was as if to say, "That's not true. You did know that you just deliberately wanted to ruin our records." I mean this is this is like, we were all kind of really out of it so in a sense we were all really regressed and tensions were really high and that kind of thing. But, it's like that's just one more thing I couldn't possibly do right and that...


COUNSELOR: It sounds to me like all of your all the things that are issues for you ganged up on you that day and you had like one chance to reach out and make a positive, do something positive or use, use yourself in a positive way and that was cutoff and you were left feeling like a well like a (inaudible) is like a huddled frozen (inaudible) in the corner. Very far away from everybody, unable to move. 0:39:56.8


PATIENT: Pretty much that way. I really it was like really difficult to paint. It was like, I don't think I ever had such a hard time just making myself do anything. All I knew is that I wanted to get out of there and I didn't want to talk to anybody. And I also knew somehow, where as emotionally I could not imagine what it would be like to not feel that way and to feel strong and to feel compatible with these people again and to laugh and to have a good time. I knew that the only way that I could get out of it was to make myself somehow get out of myself and join in with them. And gradually as the night wore on I was able to do that especially getting rid of one of the roommates taking off that I, that had rubbed me the most and had been rubbing me the most for a really long time. I mean I gradually began to get out of it after that. That it was just the two of us were left the girl that I think is a lot like me and myself. We weren't getting along perfectly but we were getting along pretty well and we ended up just going into hysterics about a whole lot of things because we really stayed up too late this morning. And, just were exhausted because we had been doing this for several months. And, somehow just the sheer exhaustion got me out of it so that I could laugh so that by this morning I felt alright. I wasn't tremendous I wasn't feeling really good but I wasn't I had gotten rid of this bad thing. But I mean I've had this feeling so many times and it's not always this strong. But last night I didn't know what to do with it. And, I didn't know how to explain it or what had caused it or anything else. Except that I knew that I couldn't function normally.


COUNSELOR: If somebody came up to you - I don't know if you can answer this but - if somebody came up to you at a time that you were feeling that and said and really meant it like, "I want to hear what you're going through right now. Tell me." Would you feel you could tell them? 0:42:14.2


PATIENT: That I doubt it. I really doubt it. I was going to say it would depend so much on who.


COUNSELOR: Um hmm. But like it isn't you're saying it's not just a matter of having a receptive offer there's really something in you that feels the need or I'm not sure what.


PATIENT: I don't know how to describe it I really don't. It's like a fantastic discouragement that I couldn't ever get out of it. And, no you just can't have, you can't let feelings take over so strongly. I mean outwardly I could function fine. Like a robot but I could function. I could speak, I went to borrow ladders which meant I talked to everybody in the whole building and I was perfectly civil and friendly and everything else. And that I could do. But, at the same time there's this really strong thing inside of me that was like ready to scream. And, I just it was just such a bad self that I didn't know what to do with it. But it was so very present.


COUNSELOR: It's sounds sort of like talking about witch craft or something but, I keep getting this feeling it's like, "The only energy I have is bad energy. Or the only power I have is bad power. When I let something out it puts people off. This self that I was feeling last night it was hell for me but I couldn't I mean I can't even tell anybody about it because it was so bad."


PATIENT: It was, I mean what I felt at that point was just like, I could not possibility relate to anybody. I was just such a really, bad not bad but just, screwed up person. And not really even screwed up I was like a child. And I don't think that all the energy is bad, but it's like it changes itself. It's like all the energy in me last night was bad and I didn't know what to do with it. There are other times like the night I finished my room that it was all good. I could have done anything with it. I mean it was fantastic. And it was just like the complete opposite. It was strong and independent and self sufficient and able to relate to anybody and feeling like no problem could get me down and that I was perfectly equal and able to stand my own with anybody. And it was just the complete opposite regressed aggressive child, unsuccessful failure as far as any kind of social being. And unsuccessful as far as I mean had I even left which I wanted to do I still would not have been happy. I mean it wasn't it was mostly a social kind of thing that I couldn't deal with these people. But I also couldn't feel happy about myself either.


COUNSELOR: And like so you end up getting it sounds like you ending up just getting trapped there until you got so tired that you couldn't...


PATIENT: I mean until it went away.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:45:52.3


PATIENT: I mean literally. And in probably a lot of ways it was a good thing I was trapped there. But namely that there was no other way I could have gotten rid of it either. I mean running was what I wanted to do because the thing that was hurting the most was having to be in a social situation where I felt like I was completely incompetent. And where I was really angry at the people involved for no particular reason. And it would be getting out of the situation that was particularly unbearable given that mood but it still wouldn't have gotten rid of the mood. Because it wasn't that situation itself that caused it. It was there and it couldn't, it was like I couldn't function in that situation because of it. But it hasn't been caused by being in that situation. 


COUNSELOR: It's like you felt what destructive and irrational and at least are you saying, "At least I sat with that there. I didn't take myself out of it or I didn't", I wasn't really sure about the last part of what you said I guess.


PATIENT: This whole kind of mood of feeling really far removed or unable to ever be a equal social being (inaudible) these girls. And just feeling really inferior to them in just every way imaginable. And, by not by feeling inferior to them it was it was, it's okay being inferior to people once in a while or to some people but it was like I just, it was such a state that I couldn't be anything anyway. It's not coming out right I know. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah there was something about, I thought in what you're saying, "Well at least I stayed there and sat through it." Now I'm not sure I heard that right.


PATIENT: Well the thing is it really didn't matter where I was. I think I would have had the same feeling anyway whether I, no matter what I was doing. What was, what perhaps made it feel much more seething was the fact that I was in a situation where I should have been gregarious and I should have been feeling doing all sorts of things equal with these girls and I couldn't. And it was a situation where it was demanded of me. Had it been just another evening at home and I felt this way many times just another evening at home I can just barricade myself in my room, or go for a walk or something like that. but the feeling doesn't go away. 


COUNSELOR: No there's something like that, are you saying that sharpened how bad it was? But there's all these that situation carries so many of the demands that you, you were sitting there watching yourself not meet them and that made it much worse. 0:48:55.4


PATIENT: Well it didn't it wasn't even so much it made it worse it was like, well somewhat I guess it did but it was there it was beyond the situation and it was, and it's the kind of thing that when it's occurred other times I felt the same way even if I was alone in my room with nobody else home or with a roommate that I was just deliberately changing my schedule so I wouldn't have to eat with him so I wouldn't have to talk with him. And it's still and knowing that having the same equally strong feeling of being unable to relate to them (inaudible). Just unable to relate to them period. And, this situation yeah this situation made it really, evident to me not how impotent that I was so much as how much normal social interaction required that, that I couldn't do. I mean I knew I couldn't do it. I knew I couldn't relate to people and I realize much more strongly how this relating to people is something that's really pervasive of life mainly that that something you've got to have the ability to do all the time. And at that point I felt like I had the ability to do none of it. At least I'm sure that there being two, two other people made it much worse. Had there been one other person it would have been a lot easier somehow.


COUNSELOR: Okay but it sounds like at least something was made very much more vivid by just being there. Like the feelings weren't so different but them and the context of what ought to be or something. I don't really get (inaudible) like that. 0:51:12.6


PATIENT: Anyway I don't understand it but I really, I really was frightened by it in a lot of ways. Because I knew nothing whatsoever that I could do to survive it. I mean some things I'm really conscious of, like feeling very sad or something like that and it's a legitimate feeling that I know that there's something that I can do to change my mood. Well it's going to take some effort but I know like if I go with this group of people it's doing something or if I, go play with my cat or something like that that I'm going to feel better. And I couldn't do that last night. I mean there was nothing that I could think of to do that was going to make me feeling any better.


COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like it was more than just a question of not being able to think of anything to do but at that point you wouldn't have been able to do anything. It sounds like you felt really bereft of any of the any of what you need to change that at all at that point. 


PATIENT: More than anything else there was nothing that I knew of to do. It was like this was a state of me that was very real. And that there was no way that I could get rid of it or deny it or anything else or change it. I mean just it was again this fact that it was too late to change. That this was too much me, and I couldn't stand me, that me. And I couldn't do anything with that me. I mean I couldn't live with me myself and I couldn't do anything as far as (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if you're feeling frustrated right now.


PATIENT: I'm feeling frustrated in not being able to explain how I felt. I mean in being I can really remember it so vividly but I can't I don't have any terms to describe it. I don't know of any. I don't know of any nice names that it fits into. And yet to me it's such a common situation. That it's like I wish there were a name so I could just say I felt this way and that would describe the whole feeling. But I don't know what to say (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Like it sounds like it's such a big all encompassing and at that point sort of final or inloopable (ph) thing that it's very, I don't know frustrating is too (inaudible) but it's sort of like it's awful not to be able to even describe that. That's so big and it so gripped you or something. 0:53:57.9


PATIENT: Yeah I mean just, I can just think of so many other times that it's happened that I felt so much the same way but it's been, I won't fit (ph) myself and it's been so irrational. I just remember in college with sitting with two of my roommates who were talking about something that I should have been able to join in with without any problem, and I thought I just had this feeling that I couldn't do it. That I felt so separate from their world and there was nothing that I could do to put me back into it. And I just, in college I never really, I didn't think I felt I guess this was the one time I really admitted feeling I was just writing something and I, I when I was in college I used to just write down things that I felt just to get them out. As sort of getting them out on paper just write lots of damns or just who I was mad at or what kind of beautiful feeling I was feeling or something like that. And I just sort of wrote in this notebook that I couldn't change and that I really shouldn't maybe I should I would be just as well off dead. That's the first time I ever remember just really, I don't know if I wrote it and was worried for really feeling very strongly that I really would be better off not being around. And really admitting to myself that that's how I felt. And it was in this it was when this same feeling was over me. And it was when there were two girls that I, and these particular girls at college I felt very close to and I liked very much. More so than the two girls I was with last night. And also with each of them I was probably more like each of them than they were like each other. Like I could really relate to each of them. But I couldn't relate to their world it's (ph) a social world somehow. And, just this fantastically strong feeling of being out of it. And of, having no way of feeling natural and normal in this situation was so overpowering that I couldn't do anything but take myself into my own little world and hope that they didn't make any demands on me to relate or to speak or, because I couldn't. And at the same time I was probably sitting there on the couch looking just very studious or very attentive or something like that. Certainly not looking emotional. And writing the most emotional relating (ph) stuff. An exclamation point (inaudible) and just really ready to scream. And feeling like I couldn't stay in this place, (inaudible) this world. Anyway I was I hadn't felt it so strongly as I felt last night. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Where did it where did it leave you feeling about it today? 0:57:00.9


PATIENT: Today I slept most of the day. And I was okay. I mean I wasn't really fired up to do anything but I, and I feel sort of okay now as far as I'm really not up to, looking forward to going to work tomorrow but at the same time I can do it. And kind of get through. And that I'm on a much more functioning level without being on a really feeling strong being able to accomplish everything I want.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Tomorrow at 3:30 will be okay?


PATIENT: Yeah I can come Tuesday this week if you'd rather do it then or I can come tomorrow.


COUNSELOR: Whichever you prefer.


PATIENT: It's just usually I have a class on Tuesday but the classes aren't meeting this week.


COUNSELOR: Would you rather come on Tuesday?


PATIENT: Tomorrow is Friday, I think I would rather come Tuesday just because I'd rather there be a break of a day.


COUNSELOR: Okay. (inaudible). So you can come at 3:30 on Tuesday?


PATIENT: 3:30 will be (inaudible) I'll be working.


COUNSELOR: Okay. (inaudible) Bye.


PATIENT: Thank you very much. Bye now.


COUNSELOR: Bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
