TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: Gee, it has been like two weeks since I talked to you, hasn't it? A lot of things have happened. I don't know really where I stand now. I don't know if Charlie could be with me and I'm kind of upset about it but I can't seem to get anywhere with him. The week after the last time I talked to you, I felt that he wasn't happy with it. We got into a really large debate about it that evening and it was like I kept hitting dead ends. I was saying things that I thought really made lot of sense and he would just pass over it like it was no big thing. That was when he said he probably would quit the following week and I was sort of hoping that he would change his mind but he didn't. I feel, you know, that it is a mistake but I can't communicate it to him.


COUNSELOR: You really want him to still be in but you can't get him to see that?


PATIENT: U-hum. To me, I guess that maybe in a way my own personal feelings are getting involved because I feel like he has deserted the ship. It was true that when we both started it was because I had suggested it but I didn't feel that everything that had been going wrong with our marriage had been my fault. There were a lot of personal things I wanted to get straightened up in my mind but I had also hoped that this would make me become a better wife and that the marriage would work out. I sort of had the feeling that he was thinking along these lines. But now, with his dropping out, it has left me with the feeling that I am the one that has to get it all straightened out and then everything will be alright. And I don't think that is really the way it is and I can't communicate this to him. It is like I feel, personally, that if he dropped out of therapy that he should get involved in something else but I can't even get him interested in that. (3:05)


COUNSELOR: Is it like you were hoping that therapy would help him see some of the things that you are trying to make him see? And that now you are just with (inaudible 3:16) it is not working?


PATIENT: Well, yes and no because when I look back on it know I always talked to him a lot about what I would have talked about here, whereas he would never say anything to me. That is why I had the feeling that right from the beginning that something was wrong.


COUNSELOR: From the beginning of your marriage?


PATIENT: No, from the beginning of therapy. And now, it is like there is even a larger gap between us because I feel that at least this was forcing me to face things and to react differently with things than I had in the past but I never saw this change him in. It is like he is getting more and more wound up. He is constantly, like, exploding. I don't even pay any attention to it anymore. I just walk away and that even angers him more because it is like I am turning my back on him. I just reached a point that if you can't talk about some little, simple thing without getting into a vicious argument over it, it just doesn't mean anything to me. We have tried to work out some of the problems. He will admit: "You know, I don't know why I am looking for constant perfection in you all the time." Stuff like that but the really serious things we still don't even talk about. The sexual thing is no different than it was four months ago. It is still the same way. And it's like I don't even...I don't really even care to talk about it anymore. I can't even get keyed up enough and wound up enough to give in on it. I am more relaxed not thinking about it so then I don't have any desire to talk about it. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like things just aren't working - period? (5.49)


PATIENT: The only thing that really troubles me...sometimes I reach a point where I feel: "What is it all for? Why am I struggling so hard to make this go?" I feel this way for a while and then I will turn around and something will happen between us that will make me feel really guilty that I had these thoughts. I feel, well, if I think this way does Pete think along these lines too. I know he does because we've talked about it. He has told me he wasn't happy and so on and so forth. It's really strange. I just don't seem to be able to communicate with him anymore about anything - whether is good or bad. It really has me bugged.


COUNSELOR: First you were saying you were torn. On the one hand you think you should never even deal with it all but on the other hand you get to feeling guilty and you want to get it started again. But you can't make it go anywhere. You are just stuck?


PATIENT: When he dropped out, it was really a let down to me. I didn't realize how much it was until it actually happened. Then I said: "Well, I am going to quit too." He said: "Well, that's stupid because you have a nice relationship with your therapist and I think it is doing you a lot of good and I think you should keep going." I knew what he was saying was true but I felt that: "Why should I keep going if I come out of this a better person in my eyes, what good is that going to do me?" In many ways, I feel l have already succeeded in doing some of the things that I set out to accomplish but I am still not getting anywhere.


COUNSELOR: With him?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And maybe you have changed a little bit but there is still, like, a stone wall with him? (8:20)


PATIENT: U-hum. Well, he said: "You have changed." And I try to pin him down and say: "Well, how have I changed? Do you like me better now than you did before? Do you think you are going to like me even more when it is all over with?" And he can't give me a direct answer. It's really goofy because I talk to him about marriage counseling. Like: "Maybe we should get involved in that." I say so many things to you that really are bothering me - to you - and then when I leave this office, I don't even care to talk to him about it. It is like I have gotten it off my chest and so it doesn't go any farther. It stops when I close that door. And I said: "You are so unaware of how I function. And I said: "This has just started to come to me in the last couple of months - you really don't know me at all."


I don't even know him and I thought I did. What's happening to him now is sort of like the way he was when we first got married - very rebellious and defensive all the time. And after we were married for say over a year, he mellowed. He would have little bursts here and there but nothing that outstanding. But it is like all coming back now and I don't know why. I can't figure it out. I am sure that so much has to be sexual frustration and yet both of us choose to do nothing about it. It really has me baffled. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you are just battering it to find out what he feels. You can't get through that and you don't feel like he is really understanding you either - inside your head, what's going on? 


PATIENT: Like, just now I said to him downstairs if he wanted me to enquire about another program and he said: "No, not now because we can't afford it." And I said: "Well, if you wouldn't have quit, it still would have been the same amount of money." I said: "Now why, all of a sudden, does money enter into it?" It was really funny because I was left with no kind of answer at all and I just get angry and shut it off. And I said: "I don't want to talk about it." (11:36)


To me, what I asked it was a reasonable question and I could not see any reason why he should fly off the handle like he was starting to do. It is really funny because I could ask him a really direct question about himself and if he knows the answer he will be very calm and spout if off. I did start questioning him about the sexual thing. I asked him if he had homosexual tendencies. I couldn't believe I had asked him but it had really been bugging me. I thought: "Well, there is this possibility."


COUNSELOR: Was there a reason that you didn't have sex much with each other, you mean?


PATIENT: Well, yeah. He really didn't seem to be that interested in it. After a while, I quit identifying this sexual thing with me personally. It was like I really wondered if he had the desire to have it with any female.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible 13:06) You just couldn't understand?


PATIENT: U-hum. I guess that he had gone through this thing in his mind before. He was able to give me a very pat answer like: "Well, yeah, I have thought about it before but I am positive that I am not because I don't find men sexually arousing or anything like that." Okay, that satisfied me because he was - as far as I was concerned - honest. But then when I delved into it farther, you know like: "If that's not the problem and you haven't been having an affair with someone else all this time, then what is wrong? It's unreal!" He said: "I don't know." He said: "I don't know what the problem is." (14:17)


And in the next breath he tells me he is going to quit therapy because he doesn't have anything to talk about. To me, that is something right there. Then when I pointed that out to him, he just said: "Well, I can't just go and talk about that every week. How much can I say about it?" And I said: "Well, you have to search and think of things that are bothering you. I think he has thoroughly convinced himself that he can solve his own problems in his own way - that he doesn't need the help of anyone else. Unless maybe it would be someone that would sit there and pull things out of him. I am not capable of doing it - maybe a stranger could. 


COUNSELOR: But you just don't know what to do, right? He won't go to therapy. He won't talk to you, so, what is it?


PATIENT: I don't know. It is really funny because, like I said earlier, I try not to think of the sexual thing but it is really getting bigger and bigger. I cannot seem to get rid of it. I realize that I personally have a lot of hang ups with it. I know that it has caused friction between us in the past because he always said to me: "I don't feel like you really enjoy it and therefore it makes me not enjoy it." Then I would try to tell him why I didn't enjoy it and it never went any further than just my telling. Therefore, I really definitely have the feeling now that he doesn't have the desire to please me.


COUNSELOR: And it all started when you weren't responding well enough to him? 


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: And also you never really had a chance to talk it out with each other, really. You are both sort of staying in your own corners or something? (17:04)


PATIENT: See, obviously, before we were married and we had had a sexual relationship, on the surface it appeared to be normal. Since we weren't married, it was like a challenge to him and he was at his best. In order for him to seduce me, he had to build up to it. It wasn't just like, blup, we went out and that was that. Right after we got married, that was when the change started taking place because I guess that I was no longer a challenge. It got to be routine with him. 


It was funny - it was like the roles were reversed. Every book you pick up, it is always nearly the wife who gets bored and does it out of duty. It was the other way around and it was like he really seemed like he couldn't care less about it - that he would do it but that would be where it would end. I think he got about as much reaction from it like...him masturbating himself. It was like exactly the same reaction. After a while when you have that attitude towards it, it is easy to just dwindle off to nothing. 


COUNSELOR: From the beginning, it was really not very good and neither one of you was enjoying it much and you never got that together?


PATIENT: You see, for a while after we were married I really did enjoy it but then after a while it started to fade away because it got to the point where it was...I don't know...just nothing. It was funny because it really didn't bother me at all. I was just as happy without it as I was with it.


COUNSELOR: Speak more about that. Where you in that? Was it like you didn't want him or was it you got turned off by him not wanting you? What happened?


PATIENT: Maybe I can explain it this way. After a while, when something doesn't happen - it is, like, taken away from you - you start to learn to live without it. So that when it did happen it was like disgusting to me - I wanted no part of it. The funny thing was I really couldn't identify these feelings with Charlie. It was something that I had built up in myself. (20:31)


COUNSELOR: So some time back when you just felt you really didn't want that? 


PATIENT: I could say it was this way with any man. I could be attracted to someone because of their looks or their ways but I couldn't identify them with anything else than that. It was like that level and that was it. Then, I never - at the time - realized that it would eventually start to take its toll on me. You know, like, I can only go along with this for so long and then it would start coming out in other ways.


COUNSELOR: Go along like what?


PATIENT: Like go along without having any type of a sexual relationship with anyone. I really think I convinced myself that this is the way that I would be forever.


COUNSELOR: So when it stopped you were just disgusted by it. You were attracted to him but you didn't want to make love to him. And then you got used to it?


PATIENT: And then it reached a point where I just started going the opposite direction - two or three years of built up repression. It had to take its toll on my nerves and my reaction to other men. I t was funny because it was like I was going through stages. For a while I was satisfied with the way it was between Charlie and I. I was completely content - so I thought. And then, from that, it went to when we became friendly with these two fellows. I gained some sort of satisfaction out of that and that was okay for a while. Then it kept building up until I did what I did - not thinking it would ever come to that. The thing that bothers me now more than anything is that I don't know how I would react if the opportunity ever presented itself again. And I don't want to live that kind of a life. (23:33)


COUNSELOR: Just thinking you might explode any second?


PATIENT: U-hum. And I don't want to have something like that be the only way that I can express myself sexually. Why can't I do it with my husband?


COUNSELOR: How do you feel about making love right now? How does it feel to you?


PATIENT: I don't know. It's like I just get to the point where I think that I could and then it will be time to go to bed or something and I will just procrastinate to the point that by the time I finally do go to bed, he is either half asleep or too tired. So I really don't know what that means. 


COUNSELOR: You sort of wanted to make love and then...?


PATIENT: You see, I don't know if I want to. I don't know if I want to because I've convinced myself that our relationship is admirable and that by me responding - even being the aggressor - that it would make the situation normal.


COUNSELOR: Say that again. You think it is admirable now?


PATIENT: I think our existence now is abnormal by not making love. If we did make love, everything would be alright. It's like I am using it as a tool. It is not because I have any outstanding desire to make love. 


COUNSELOR: That would make it right again. That would make it normal. And you are afraid that is why you are doing it?


PATIENT: Then I have to keep going back to the point, why doesn't he be the aggressor? Then I thought of things, like, maybe he is afraid that I am going to turn him off or that I am going to come up with some sort of an excuse. Anything that will just prolong it a day longer. I don't know. I can't figure that out, that point. But I can't see his mind. I really don't know what he is thinking anymore. (26:30)


COUNSELOR: Besides that, have you tried asking him? Do you like making love? And wondering how he would respond?


PATIENT: I don't know. We really communicate so little anymore except about day-to-day living - what you did, what I did - that kind of garbage. But to really sit down and talk about ourselves, it's like out of the question - we just don't do it. I have thought on several occasions bringing the subject up. But I don't know, it seems like, whenever we talk about anything that involves each of us questioning our motives it ends up into an argument. Basically, I don't care to argue with anyone - I never have.


COUNSELOR: So why talk to him at all?


PATIENT: Yeah, even about things that don't concern us directly but indirectly - we will argue over things like that. Sometimes I get hurt because I feel that he is bound and determined to have it his way. He just does not want to give into me. It really bugs me because to me, it is something that you have to give and take. When I think about our relationship, I feel like I really do give more than I take and it doesn't bother me until that one time will come that I want something desperately and he will just say "forget it" and fly into such a rage and that's it.


COUNSELOR: And then the whole thing will end? (29:09)


PATIENT: Well, I won't push it because if I do I know that it is going to end up being miserable to both of us and I have tried to explain things to him like why I want it this way because I really have these strong feelings. A lot of this has to do with my relationship with my parents. It has always been very difficult for Charlie to accept my entanglement with them - that I can't break away completely. We will get into a discussion where I will make a suggestions about doing something with him. It invariably ends up that we fight about it but I feel it is because he really doesn't understand how I feel. 


It happened last night. Right in the middle of my trying to explain to him why this was so important to me, he became engrossed with something on TV. I just turned off and I picked up a book and started reading. A few minutes later he said: "Okay, go back to what you were saying." It can take just two minutes to make you turn off and I really didn't care to talk about it anymore. So I skimmed through what I had to say and that was it. I got really hostile to him afterwards about it because...


COUNSELOR: It was important to you. You wanted him to listen and he wanted to watch TV.


PATIENT: I don't have the best relationship in the world with my parents and I don't think that Charlie ever really understood it. I had come to a lot of conclusions about it and this is sort of what I was talking to him about. I have finally just begun to understand why I am the way I am with him and I really wanted to talk to him about this. And, I don't know, it was like he really couldn't have cared less.


COUNSELOR: And where does that leave you? (32:06)


PATIENT: U-hum. See the one thing that really is starting to bug me about this whole thing is that I am starting to talk to other people about things I never talked about before. I have always disliked this sort of thing. I have always hated when somebody has come to me with something that's really super personal and then I have to sit there and listen to it. And then I get all entangled in it and I hate to do that to people but I can't really seem to get it off in any other way. Eventually it just comes down to someone. 


I feel myself doing it and it is really terrible because I can't stop. I did it yesterday afternoon with a friend of ours. I just started blurting out all this stuff about therapy and how I really resented him quitting and everything. The fellow didn't know what to say. I had really put him on the spot and after I did it I felt really bad but it was funny because he agreed that he thought it was a mistake. I really wasn't looking for any feedback from him.


COUNSELOR: You just wanted to get it out.


PATIENT: I know he meant what he said - he wasn't just saying it to make me feel better. It is like I have to tell someone these things and I can't tell Charlie.


COUNSELOR: You keep saying that. It keeps coming up over and over again that you can't get to him. You don't know what's going on in him and he doesn't understand you either...like that?


PATIENT: See it's really funny but I really try to go into this thing about therapy with him and I guess that the things that I said were, like, cruel because I could tell by his reaction. Whenever he gets defensive I know I am hitting home. I think that he couldn't take it and I told him: "If you really had wanted to make it work you would have found out why it wasn't working. If it were you or if it were your therapist or if it was the method." (35:18)


But to just walk out on it? I would have expected me to do it before him because I have always backed away from anything unpleasant. And when he did it I couldn't believe it but I know that has to be it. It was too much for him. For him to say to me: "Well, I have had all these psychology courses and I have learned that when I have a problem I can study it and I can seek out why it is happening." So I have answered a lot of hang-ups that I have that you never could answer.


COUNSELOR: For him?


PATIENT: Yeah, like he is capable of solving his own problems. And I said: "Well, that's totally great but don't you think that a lot of the times there could have been rationalization?" 


COUNSELOR: That's really infuriating to you. That's like telling you that you can't do anything for him.


PATIENT: By him saying that, it was like him saying to me: "I knew that I always had these problems but I knew how to cope with it." And that's so untrue. At different points of my life I have said: "Give it time, we will work something out." That really bugged me and I would question why I did it. Sometimes I would come up with a really great answer but that didn't mean I was really solving the problem just because I satisfied myself. The fact that so many things do bug me about myself now makes me realize that I never really did solve them. If I had have started coming here I probably would be a mess by now because that was the point I had reached with everything just coming down on me all at once. I can't seem to get this through to him because I have a feeling that is what is happening to him and he doesn't realize it. (38:12)


COUNSELOR: But you can't just solve your own problems?


PATIENT: U-hum. Two weeks ago they discovered that he has some kind of a heart problem and he completely went to pieces. Like: "Oh God, I'm so young and I am going to have to make all these sacrifices." And he really hadn't even seen a specialist yet or anything. And I kept saying: "Now look, you are getting excited over nothing. Just take it easy." He didn't even want to talk to me about it. And I said: "This affects me too. This isn't something that is your problem alone and he just refused to talk about it. He would come home completely shot to hell - because he had gotten so ripped up over this. Then I would try and talk to him about it and he would just pick up the newspaper and start reading it.


COUNSELOR: He was shutting you out again?


PATIENT: U-hum. I made myself sick over the whole thing and it really kind of convulsed me (chuckles). Here I am with all these things inside of me but I can't talk about it because he doesn't want to talk about. Maybe things were happening all along and I just didn't notice it or something - I don't know. But it has just gotten to a point where...for a long time I would fall apart when anything would go wrong. I can remember even, like, getting hysterical where my kids would slap me to get me back to reality because I would just go to pieces that fast. And now it is like the other way around and maybe I can't accept my role as being...it is like nothing ever bothers me anymore and I don't know if that is good or bad. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you are beginning to give up. Nothing has worked - why try anymore? (41:04)


PATIENT: He preached to me for so long about how I was always used to everything going the right way and if it was different - or something would happen that would change things - I would react that way. Almost, like, in a tantrum. I would get this way about everything - the house, my work. Unless everything was just the way I wanted it, I would just completely go to pieces. I really started working on not letting things bother me and I must have worked awfully hard on it because they don't really bother me anymore. In comparison to the way I was a year ago, I am not the least bit compulsive about anything anymore. I really let things disturb me about, like neatness and all that garbage that I really used being hung-up on.


I don't know, it's fun in a way because he's becoming the complete opposite. He will fly off the handle at any little thing. I just sit back and look at him like he is crazy. I guess that that was the way I was (chuckles) and I keep thinking that these things have to be caused by some kind of a pressure. I am sure that the pressure is his relationship with me because I know that he is very happy with his work and even though it is mentally strenuous, it doesn't take that much out of him. I am sure it is because he feels we have just really gotten lost somewhere along the way. 


It is either one of two things; he either really just doesn't have the desire to do anything about it because he just doesn't care and that he is like hoping that something is going to happen that is just going to break us up; or he really can't find the answers and it is just bugging him to death. In a way, I really think it could be a little bit of both. At certain times I really feel that If I was to pack up and walk out - like leave a note for him - that he would really honestly be relieved that it was finally over. And then there are times when he acts with a complete opposite reaction and it just leaves me nowhere. (44:40)


I almost did it a week ago. I got so upset with him - with what he had done - and I almost did leave. I wasn't going to leave permanently but I had to get out of the house and I just felt...it was funny but I was completely drained. I just didn't feel I could go through any more of it. I guess I waited a little bit too long because he came home. When he came home I thought that we could talk about the feelings I had had. He was in no condition to talk. I didn't even want to be around him. 


Then he started spouting off about if he was single he could do this and do that. I knew he was drunk but I don't always ignore something a person says when they are drunk because...I really feel this is part of the problem - his big hang-up to be free. I finally (inaudible 46:28) up and I got dressed and I went out. I really felt really funny about it but I just couldn't stay in the house. I came home about one o'clock and he was up waiting for me. He was so angry that I had walked out. Now, how can you explain that? 


It's like the total opposite of one another. I feel if he hadn't really cared - that he had gotten up and discovered that I wasn't home - that he either would have just said "well, screw her" and went back to sleep or he, himself, could have gotten up and gotten dressed and not been there when I got back. But for him to be sitting up and give me the third degree about where I was and what I did...I think it was really a shock to him. He couldn't believe that I could do that to him. It was really funny because the next day he just didn't know how nice he was to me. Like I had errands to run that ordinarily he would never go with me and...(47:57)


COUNSELOR: You were thinking: "Well, this is what I have to do? (chuckles)


PATIENT: Yeah! Do I have to be a bad girl to be wanted?


COUNSELOR: All that time you tried to get him to do something and then it takes that to get him to do something.


PATIENT: When everything goes (inaudible 48:22) and I am behaving and I don't do anything wrong, then everything is like screwed up but all I have to do is step out of line and there's this. I can't really evaluate that as meaning anything for some reason or another because he really is very jealous. I don't know if it really bugged him that much that I wasn't home. Was he really worried? Where did I go? Was I safe? Did I do this to her? Did I make her walk out of the house?


COUNSELOR: It wasn't a caring thing?


PATIENT: No, it was more like accusing me of doing something that I hadn't actually done. I was like hitting below the belt sort of thing. It is really funny because I think that if I ever did really become involved in somebody else it would be, like, pride to him - to really try and get at me for doing it.


COUNSELOR: Still not caring about you. He is not concerned about good a husband he is...(inaudible 50:08)


PATIENT: See, I have the feeling that a lot of this will go back to with his mother. How she has chased around and gotten involved. This really bugs him. He will never criticize another woman but if he ever thought that his wife would ever do anything like that, it would be more than he could take. It is really funny but he doesn't look at it from the point of view that...I'm quite positive that after his youngest sister was born that, for the next 17 or 18 years, his parents didn't have sex because his father is very much like Charlie in many ways. He is quiet and sort of just sits back and takes everything. So he really hasn't had a healthy sexual environment at home. It was always as screwed up in that way as it was in my house. My father was aggressive and my mother hated it with a passion and will even talk to me know about how much she hates it. (51:51)


The two problems together are really weird. It is just not a good combination. I don't think either of us had a healthy sexual background. Just because he may have "made" 20 or some girls before he got married and did everything you are supposed to do, I don't think he is really balanced.


COUNSELOR: That's what he usually throws up to you? He'll get it right from now.


PATIENT: Sort of, like: "I always was normal before I married you."


COUNSELOR: And then you came along and you're the one that's crazy!


PATIENT: On several occasions he will say: "Well, you are really like your mother." I really don't feel like I'm my mother because I do enjoy sex. I may appear to be frigid but I think it is simply because I haven't had a means of letting loose with some of these hang-ups that I have about sex. So therefore I don't feel relaxed in it - in my role. 


COUNSELOR: For him to tell you it is your family hang-up; it throws it off of where you really feel it is at.


PATIENT: In so many ways he has commented to me that he doesn't respect his father because he has taken such a subtle role in their marriage. That he never was aggressive, demanding of either of them - the mother or the children. Maybe that's why he's working so hard at being the aggressor and being so demanding. He can't honestly believe in his mind that a man would sit back and take this for all these years. It doesn't seem real to him. I'm sure that this has left such a terrible impression on him - just like my relationship with my parents and how my mother always detested sex. And overhearing conversations when I was young and arguments that they had had. These things just don't move you. I can remember thinking that it was so sad that two people would have to go through life this way; that they couldn't even communicate about something that affected them both so personally. I always was determined that my married life wouldn't be that way. (55:22)


COUNSELOR: And now here it is.


PATIENT: In many respects it is even worse because for some reason or another, my parents were able to live it out and so were his. Maybe it was because they never really cared enough to find out what was wrong.


COUNSELOR: More like they stuck it out.


PATIENT: Yeah, or they stuck it out. We don't want to be that way. We have often said we want to be really intelligent about this thing and find out why it is this way with us but in so many respects we are doing the same thing that they are. Fortunately, we have enough compatible points that we have been able to survive this long - maybe even could survive another five or six years. But I don't think so because I think both of us are too aware of the problems that existed in our homes and want it not to be that way. I don't think that we would survive. I am sure that we would really do great damage to one another. 


I really don't know where to go from here. I really don't want to quit therapy yet I have the feeling that...like I am sure that he will...well, I'm not going to quit because it is doing me good. But I don't know what we should do, especially know that it is a one-sided thing. At least this was something that we had in common. Even though Charlie wouldn't start talking about it, I would. It was sort of like Wednesday night was communication night. I am sure in some respects it did help us because we did become more aware of - I should say Charlie became more aware of - some of my feelings. But now that we don't have this and he is determined not to get involved in any other program, I really don't know what's going to happen now. Because I don't really...for me to start talking to him about here, it is like...it just won't work. It has been pretty much one-side right along but at least I felt I was making some breaks into him. (58:51)


COUNSELOR: But now it's not there at all?


PATIENT: I don't think so.


COUNSELOR: Well, it is time to stop. Were you partly asking me in that or was it for you, how you feel? 


PATIENT: A bit of both I think.


COUNSELOR: Because I don't know what we can do except give you names of referral places. My own opinion is that it is awfully hard to work out this individually. It is valuable also but it is awfully hard to do it when the two of you aren't in the same room.


PATIENT: Like, referral places - you mean, like, to go to another place completely? 


COUNSELOR: We are closing in the summer. Some people will do couples here but you are still stuck with...that doesn't change the fact that he doesn't want to come. For you all I can say that somebody might be able to take that and there are other places we can give you names of.


PATIENT: If we were to get involved in that kind of approach...oh, I wanted to ask you before you throw that out. For the next three Fridays I can come early during the day if you want to take me earlier. 


COUNSELOR: Is that dated?


PATIENT: Well, yes, and some receipts. For the next three weeks I will have a car. Since we don't have to come together anymore I thought I could come earlier in the day.


COUNSELOR: Ah, 10.15 to 11.15 or 11.30 to 12.30?


PATIENT: 12.30 would be fine. 


COUNSELOR: It doesn't really make much difference. I'll be here from early morning.


PATIENT: Well do they, like here, when they do something as a couple, do they have a required amount of sessions? And is it set up on the same basis as our therapy?


COUNSELOR: No it will be different because you are on a research program. I don't know. It would be limited because we are closing in the summer.


PATIENT: Is that a permanent close or just for the summer?


COUNSELOR: Permanent.


PATIENT: Oh.


COUNSELOR: It will be limited for that reason and I don't know what else the people will do after then. Maybe they will run a (inaudible 62:19).


PATIENT: Alright, I will talk to him and see what happens.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Okay, thank you. I will see you next week. 


COUNSELOR: Okay. (62:42)


END TRANSCRIPT
