TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Oh, hi, Cecelia. I'm out of water. I need to change the water. I'm sorry about that. Come on in. (pause) [00:04:18]
CLIENT: I got some, I'll survive. (sighs)
THERAPIST: You can certainly get some from the bathroom if you want. I know it's not as nice as the water from...
CLIENT: Oh, no, any clean water.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Any clean water.
THERAPIST: In the back. (pause) (phone ringing) [00:05:49]
CLIENT: Thank you. I'm still a little bit sick, so... On Monday I was feeling a little better. I came here, right? And then it just got worse. (giggles) I went to school on Tuesday, but (coughs) I couldn't really read more than two pages in class, so I had to come home. (sighs) (pause) I'm going to suck on something so that I can talk. [00:06:30]
I was sort of out on Monday so the thing that you said confused me a little bit (giggles). The steps thing and what not. Going a couple of steps ahead, you said? Deciding something? Like making up my mind about something being wrong or something?
THERAPIST: I think I was talking about assumptions you're making. Extrapolating. 
CLIENT: Um, like not expecting something from people.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I wonder. It did seem confusing and I'm not sure what that means. Like it seems important that that's confusing, and I'm happy to repeat myself, but—would you like me to?
CLIENT: Sure, yeah. (giggles) [00:07:40] 
THERAPIST: Well, if someone passes you in the hallway, and doesn't say "Hi," -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's a lot of different explanations for it. They didn't see you, they just got bad news—all sorts of things. They don't like you anymore maybe, there's all sorts of ways to interpret that. But what you were talking about is interpreting people as sort of snubbing you, or neglecting you. And there's a wide variety of behavior that's interpreted with that interpretation. And I think that was what I was commenting on. 
CLIENT: Okay. You mean you're interpreting my—
THERAPIST: No, when you interpret what other people are doing.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Or not doing.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And your assumption that people are treating you as if you're not important, that if they don't say anything they're inherently not welcoming you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (sighs) (pause) 
THERAPIST: Does that make sense? [00:08:40]
CLIENT: Yeah, no, it makes sense, yeah. Hm. (pause) Yeah, I mean, maybe it just relates to, like, my fear of rejection, you know. Um, that I know that all these other possibilities might be preoccupying them, it might not have anything to do with me. But I just kind of fear the worst. You know?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It might also mean that I'm (giggles) narcissistic, and you know, I have a me-centered view thing, and maybe I shouldn't have such a me-centered view. It might help me out (giggles) in lots of ways, maybe. (pause) [00:10:04]
I was doing some Internet research of my own (giggles). I don't know if you would be happy to hear that. (giggles) But I was—someone had said something about me that really hurt me, and I just wanted to see if that's the way I am. So I googled, like, "Why do I want to be the center of attention?" I feel like I don't all the time, but that was their reading of me and I was very, very disappointed in -
THERAPIST: That was your reading of what I said?
CLIENT: No, of what someone said about me. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (giggles) So I forget, what is it called? Like (pause) something such with an "H." I'm forgetting now that I'm in front of you, but... (giggles) (pause) Hyper, or some personality disorder? What is it called? 
THERAPIST: With an H?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: The only "H" one I know is hysterical.
CLIENT: Yeah. That one, I think. (giggles) Do you think I have that, or...
THERAPIST: Do you think—do I think you're hysterical? Why, did you think you're hysterical? [00:11:21]
CLIENT: Well, just because some people thought that—this person thought that if I'm not the center of attention, then I feel really bad. But that might be true in some instances, but I feel like I don't want to be the center of attention all the time. I mean, there were a few things in there that I thought I could relate to, but I got really scared. I mean, it sounded very bad. I didn't think I was that bad. You know? (pause) Like people who have that make grand gestures, and I tend to do that, um... (pause) I don't know. Maybe, I don't think—I don't think we should talk about it. I'm scared. (pause)
THERAPIST: You got scared by that? [00:12:22]
CLIENT: I might be such a person that seems to want all that attention. Maybe I come across like that.
THERAPIST: What's scary about that?
CLIENT: I don't know, like... so this person unfriended me. I think I told you about that. They were David's friend to begin with, but then he and I had—like we connected, and really -
THERAPIST: Is this the poetry person?
CLIENT: Who's the poetry person?
THERAPIST: I mean the poetry person at the school. I'm assuming you know him.
CLIENT: (giggles) I certainly know him. This guy, he's gay and when he came out, he just you know, sent all his friends an e-mail, and I'm like, okay. And then I was like, "Oh, wow, that's so interesting." And I started reading up about LGBT, and I was reading about a novel that was written by a gay guy, and I gifted this to him, and like, he and I started talking. And he liked me for me, you know? (coughs) [00:13:42]
And we used to hang out, and he was friends with me first on Facebook for years, and then David. And then I just kind of mentioned the problems I was having with David, and then I just mentioned to him that, oh, you know, Graham was in town. And this was in 2009. But Graham was making all these overtures, because at that time I was with David so he tried to kiss me and everything but I was like, you know, no. But I just told this to that friend, and he was like—he took that in, but when the thing with me happened, he told David that, "Yeah, you know, like, she's been on the verge of cheating on you, and this and that, and she's—you know, if she's not the center of attention, she (pause) becomes really sad, or whatever. So she wanted someone to talk to, and I'm just not that person." And then he just unfriended me from Facebook. [00:14:56]
I just felt, I took that very hard, you know? I feel totally (pause) I'm like, well...
THERAPIST: Are you okay?
CLIENT: (giggles) I almost swallowed that thing! It's not a good idea to eat that and talk. (giggles) Sorry.
THERAPIST: Anyway, a cinnamon tree will grow in your belly.
CLIENT: (giggles) I don't know if I want that.
THERAPIST: Do they say that to kids in India? 
CLIENT: Well, we don't have cinnamon candy. 
THERAPIST: Do you have hard candy? You have a hard candy and you swallow it, and then a peppermint tree grows in your belly.
CLIENT: No, we don't say that. We do—my uncle said once to me, that I had eaten chicken the night before, he said, "Oh, is he laying eggs inside your stomach?" (giggles) It's funny. A little intense, but...
THERAPIST: Yeah, the cinnamon tree sounds nicer. [00:15:49]
CLIENT: (giggles) I don't know. I felt the same.
THERAPIST: Maybe not.
CLIENT: No, I remember it because this was the only (pause) narrative of my dad. His brother, he came to our city and spent a couple days with us. And he took me out, and that was the only time I interacted with someone of my dad's family and had a positive interaction when I was really little. So I remember that. (pause)
But anyway, so going back to the friend, um... Yeah, I took that really hard, I felt very rejected by him, you know? (pause) And I'm just like, "Oh, I can understand his point of view, he's David's friend and this is how he sees it, and that's fine, he doesn't want to see all the complexities of the situation, and you know, maybe David had a little bit (pause) (coughs) you know, he contributed to this." You know, he didn't want to see that. [00:16:57]
But I just feel really scared by that happening again. You know, I saw him walking down the street, and I completely froze and I turned around and I just hid behind the bushes. (giggles) I didn't want to see him, you know? (pause) So that was my fear. (pause) What were we talking about? (giggles) (coughs)
THERAPIST: You talk very softly sometimes, Sometimes you talk more softly than others.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I just don't have the (pause) a very powerful voice that can project. I get that a lot. (giggles) (pause) Yeah, I mean—(pause) [00:18:14]
Yeah, losing friends and stuff, I take it very hard, because I feel like I invest a lot in them emotionally, and in every way. You know. I don't hold back (pause). And I like that about myself, you know? I like being that way. I like bending over backwards. I like... (pause) going out of my way. That's—the grand gesture thing, I am like that. That's me, you know? I don't want to learn skillful ways that David has of doing just so much, you know? Being this interesting guy who's reliable, but doesn't do anything out of—you know, doesn't make any grand gestures. I don't want to be like that. That's not me. [00:19:29]
But it seems like that's their recommendation, you know? That's one way I can protect myself, and not invest enough in people (coughs) that I get disappointed, or—yeah, just not freak them out. Because a lot of people get freaked out by my over-enthusiasm for them. Sorry. Not everybody is that intense. (pause) But I'm thinking now that just means that I will get along better with intense people, you know? (pause) People with—no bland people with not that much personalities are just not going to be—I'm just not going to connect as much with them. (pause) [00:20:38]
It's so hard. I feel like it's so, so hard to know yourself. You finally kind of have vision and it's nice and pretty, but everybody just passes judgment on you, or you feel because of the way you are you get hurt, you get trampled on, and then you're completely afraid to be yourself. You know? 
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) [00:21:35]
CLIENT: And there's someone inside me that says, you know, just (pause) whatever. Just be who you are because that is far more important than anything else. 
I was watching this movie last night—so silly, it's not even a good movie. It's a Hindi film. It's kind of—they're trying to do this cool thing, this interesting thing but they don't even succeed. I think "Amelie" is that film? 
THERAPIST: It's an old film. I mean, like, ten, fifteen years old. 
CLIENT: It's not that old.
THERAPIST: Maybe so.
CLIENT: No, it came out in 2003 or something.
THERAPIST: Well, nine years old.
CLIENT: Yeah. (giggles) (coughs). So yeah, they took "Amelie" as a model, but it's not nearly as good as "Amelie." This woman (pause) I mean, they had to set it in a traditional Indian setting, so that destroyed a lot of its charm. But, um... [00:22:46]
THERAPIST: "Amelie"? That movie was?
CLIENT: No, the film that I saw last night.
THERAPIST: Oh, got it. Right.
CLIENT: So it's this Indian woman, she's about to get married, and all her mom is trying to arrange a match for her. And she wants—she's this Amelie-like creature who lives in her dream world. And her dream world consists of being this (pause) (coughs) Indian actress. So she imagines is that she's an actress. And what that means for her is a lot of songs and dances, and (pause) she's a seductress, and she fancies herself as that. [00:23:35]
And she gets a job as a university clerk, registrar or something. And then she meets this man. He's a student there, but he's a painter. And she's attracted to this smell that comes from him, and she tries to figure out what makes him smell so good. First she thinks it's drugs. (giggles) So she goes and finds out, like, tries to get drugs, and nearly gets killed in the process (giggles) Like it's funny, though. And then, like, for the rest of the film she just follows this man around. It's just funny. Like she starts smelling him, and then she just starts following him throughout the city (giggles). [00:24:27]
And while her mother is trying to arrange her match, and this guy is interested in her, the one she meets through her mother, but she's really in love with this other man. And she goes to his house and talks to his mother, pretending to be a saleswoman, and all that. But in the end, this man turns around and notices her and reciprocates. (pause) So (coughs)... I don't know, I guess a lot of us might feel that way, but (pause) I feel like a lot of us might say, "Oh, you know, that's fantasy, but we have to snap back into reality, that's not reality. We can't all be Amelies, otherwise the world won't function," and this and that. [00:25:28]
But (pause) (coughs) I don't know, I just feel like that's mean. To me, that's an important part of me, you know? (pause) I don't know, last night I was crying a lot because I was thinking, "You know, I did a lot more than that girl did. I didn't just follow the guy around, I went and -" I mean, she just went and saw his mother who lived in the same town as her. But I actually went to a completely different part of the country to meet, you know, Victor. (giggles) and all that. So...
THERAPIST: Wait, I'm not sure, to meet Victor's parents?
CLIENT: Pardon?
THERAPIST: To meet Victor's parents?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When did you do that? 
CLIENT: When I was in India.
THERAPIST: Oh, you saw his parents there.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. 
THERAPIST: Just because?
CLIENT: (giggles)
THERAPIST: I don't think you mentioned this. [00:26:31]
CLIENT: Yeah, I wanted to like—so when we were seeing each other, he wanted me to learn his language.
THERAPIST: What does he speak? 
CLIENT: He speaks Indo-Iranian.
THERAPIST: He's from like northern India or Iran?
CLIENT: Pakistan. 
THERAPIST: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: Pakistan.
THERAPIST: They speak Indo-Iranian there? 
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) You know, I was in Bombay, which is in the west, on the western edge between Pakistan and the eastern edge. I've never been to that side. I mean, there was another friend there and (coughs), I think another girlfriend from Bombay, and we went to Pakistan, the three of us went out. But I went there because it was his city, you know? (giggles) So foolish. But... (pause) [00:27:28]
I guess what I'm wanting to say is just because I got burned by this experience, I don't want it to be like, "Oh, I learned my lesson. I'm not going to make any grand gestures for anyone. Men are all terrible and bad, and this and that." I feel like I don't want to do that. And just because one of David's friends unfriended me, I don't want to stop (pause) putting myself out there for people. (pause) 
But I don't want to be foolish. Like if everyone starts unfriending me, I don't want that to happen. You know. Then it will be like, there is some problem with me that I should address. (pause) Or if (pause) you know, I mean, grand gestures are fine but if my behavior of attention-grabbing (pause) becomes really obnoxious, and I want to change that. You know? (coughs) (pause) [00:28:57]
I feel like I do that a lot. Like I get so attracted or like, into other people, that I completely lose sight of who I am, or what I've done, or what I want. You know? I don't know why that is. (coughs) Maybe because I just have a really weak sense of self? I don't know. [00:30:17]
Like, on Monday, I found out that (pause) this girl from—not even my class, like two years after I went there, she went there, and she like won a prize for her story.
THERAPIST: (sneezes)
CLIENT: Bless you. Am I giving you some? (giggles)
THERAPIST: I don't think so. (pause)
CLIENT: I was really depressed for like, the whole... yeah, I've been sad about it.
THERAPIST: (sneezes)
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: You've been sad about her comments?
CLIENT: No, her winning a prize.
THERAPIST: Sorry, I didn't hear that. Because I was thinking about your friend in class I felt wasn't supportive. [00:31:12]
CLIENT: Yeah. I've tried to (pause)—I was so sick on Tuesday, I was coughing all the time and really looking miserable and crap. I was like, and she was there and I was thinking, you know I feel so bad physically. It might make me feel a little better if she and I sorted things out, but... I didn't get a chance to. She was in the bathroom with me and I said, "Hi!" And she said hi, and quickly walked out. (giggles) And when the class ended I thought, okay, let me go up to her now, and she left again. So I was like... (giggles) You know, there's only so much I can do. [00:32:02]
But this other issue of other people's success, like, I feel like this is a lesson I should learn now, because if this is a career I want, there will be a lot of this, you know? I just completely forget that I'm (pause) also in a not bad place, and I have won awards too, and (pause) this is what I'm working on, and it's going well, and I should keep working. And I completely lose sight of that and I just get so worried and (pause)—by others' success. It's just like, okay, no one will ever read me or think of me or publish me. (sighs) (coughs) [00:32:57]
It's like, you know, she and I are siblings, and there's only one slice of pie left, and she's getting it. (giggles)
THERAPIST: I was thinking about that, this sort of, this feeling that there's not enough accolades to go around. This competition 
CLIENT: And sometimes it's true that there is that case. But really, it's not as acute as I might make it out to be. But it feels like that, and that's the way it is. (pause) [00:33:38]
I just wish that I had more of a stronger sense of self, such that (pause) if other people brush me off, I can go on from worse to worse to worse. You know? (coughs) It can start from not smiling at me all the way to like, really hurting me. I should be able to withstand all those things. You know? (pause) But... (pause) [00:34:31]
I don't know, does my weakness come from, like, fear of people, fear of their rejection? I don't know. (coughs) (pause)
THERAPIST: I thought about this expression—the apple of the dad's eye, or the father's eye? Have you heard this expression?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what I thought about, I thought about this longing to be the apple of your dad's eye. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (giggles)
THERAPIST: To be special. (pause) And admired. 
CLIENT: Yeah. But I mean, like, people keep telling me, fine, you had a bad childhood. But you can't let your past determine the rest of your life. 
THERAPIST: Do people come up to you in the street and tell you that? [00:35:28]
CLIENT: (giggles) No, I mean David did, you know. (pause)
THERAPIST: David.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: People?
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: Is he people? He sounds like a person. 
CLIENT: (giggles) Well, his opinion matters so much that it's in the plural. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause) But you know this about him.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: You knew this is how he thinks about things, that his emotions are constricted, and there are a lot of topics that make him anxious, and he likes to focus on things that are clear for him, and things that are fraught with anxiety or pain are not things that he likes to deal with. And that's where his advice is coming from. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I wouldn't have been able to articulate that. (giggles) [00:36:26]
THERAPIST: Well, I think you're selling yourself short. Because, I mean, I said that based on what you've told me. 
CLIENT: No, I mean to say, like, I wouldn't be able to articulate that because (pause) I'd just be too afraid to (coughs) objectify him like that. You know?
THERAPIST: How do you mean?
CLIENT: I mean, this is a very objective opinion of David. Mine would be very subjective. It would be more biased, and "Oh, you know. Whatever he thinks, his opinion matters so much, or the most." You know, even if he's passing a value judgment, then his—whatever he places a value on must be the most valuable thing. You know? [00:37:25]
THERAPIST: You don't always feel that way.
CLIENT: I know, but (giggles) when it comes to, you know, life in general. It feels like David. It's like he's saying, "Get on with it, woman." You know. (pause)
THERAPIST: You also expressed disappointment when you were telling me—I guess, when you were in India, and you had that memory of being molested by neighbor? Was it a neighbor?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. A friend of a relative. 
THERAPIST: A friend of a relative. And he felt, he shut down the conversation very quickly. And you felt disappointed that he couldn't engage with you in that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, in that sense, it was a quote-en-quote, objective evaluation, because you think in so far as you see his limitations. 
CLIENT: I see his limitations, I do. But I also feel like I've changed him—or he says I've changed him in certain ways. But still not in the ways that really matter to me. (pause) So I don't know, like I don't know what to do with that. [00:38:40]
I mean, like, I guess it goes back to the conversations about priorities that we were having, you know? Like what can we live without? So again, you know, what he brings to me in structure and division, all those nice things that you already said, are those more important than emotional connection. (pause) So that's what I mean about what you said. Objective opinion. I'm like that. [00:39:33]
On the one hand, I see that he is pushing aside (pause) a situation that's complex and full of anxiety because it's easier to deal with more clear stuff but also more fruitful, you know? To deal with stuff that's more clear. 
THERAPIST: Fruitful how?
CLIENT: Well, for him, he's (pause) I guess what he's saying is instead of me sharing my past, or spending a minute to think about my past (pause) we could work, that would be fruitful, or we could watch a film, that would be fruitful. So I mean, that is his opinion.
THERAPIST: So I guess everything we do here isn't fruitful at all. [00:40:39]
CLIENT: But for me it is important, so. (coughs)
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause)
CLIENT: And not everything has, like (pause) some things are just inexplicable, I guess. I hadn't contacted Victor in so long, and I was so proud of myself. And then this weekend, over the Thanksgiving break, I just had this dream. Because I think I saw him (coughs). I'm always imagining I see him. But I was visiting my mom, and (pause) he lives on the same street. Like it's a very long street. But I thought I saw his car anyways. [00:41:44]
And that night I had this dream, it was weird, I was outside his apartment in Pakistan. I saw him, and he was mad at me. And then I saw his dad, all dressed up and going out for work. And I just had this feeling, like this overwhelming, you know, desire to find out about his dad. So in a moment of weakness, I e-mailed (giggles) him and said, "How's your dad?" Because he had a pacemaker installed earlier this year, so. He said, "Oh, it's funny you ask because, you know, he just spent like seven days in the hospital," and this and that. [00:42:33]
So (pause) what I mean is like, I never dream about David's parents. That's because they don't have a serious health issue. But still like, I definitely dream about Victor and his parents. But that doesn't mean that this connection that I feel with him brings any fruit into my life. It doesn't even mean that we're good friends anymore, you know? [00:43:21]
THERAPIST: So was the dream where—I didn't, I wasn't able to distinguish between the dream and not the dream. What was the dream?
CLIENT: Oh, the—you know, silly, and complicated.
THERAPIST: Do you remember the details? 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (coughs) He was looking, standing on the balcony, and looking at me with anger, and I was waiting to be let in somewhere or something. Ideally enough, I wanted to use the bathroom (giggles) and somehow, David's home in the city was connected to Victor's place in Pakistan.
THERAPIST: David's, or David's parents were connected? [00:44:19]
CLIENT: David's place. 
THERAPIST: David's place was connected to Victor's parents in Pakistan. 
CLIENT: Yeah, in Pakistan (giggles). So I stepped back to use the bathroom, there was a line, and I saw his dad come out. He looked well, and he was headed off to work. Then I got really worried, because I was like, "Where's he going? I've never seen him dressed up, always seen him wear house clothes."
THERAPIST: Wait, Victor was doing, or his father?
CLIENT: His father was doing. Yeah. And I hadn't asked about his father in months. And along with not talking to Victor for months, I hadn't also asked about his father for months. I felt anxious about that, so... (pause) 
THERAPIST: What do you think about the dream?
CLIENT: I try not to think too much. (giggles) [00:45:21]
THERAPIST: Why not?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Why not?
CLIENT: What's the point, you know? Like (coughs) the narrative that I'm supposed to believe is that he took advantage of me, and left me (pause) and he did this with his best friend's girlfriend, or ex-girlfriend. So what's the point of thinking about him, or whatever it is that the dream means. (giggles)
THERAPIST: The narrative that you're supposed to believe? 
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what David wants me to believe. That's what his friends want me to believe. I mean, that's -
THERAPIST: Sometimes you'd like to follow.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I feel like, okay, I mean, they have more experience in the world, so maybe they know more stuff. It's—I mean, it criminalizes Victor and I don't like that, but it's the best, time-saving narrative that there is. (giggles) [00:46:41]
THERAPIST: So the point of narratives is that they're time-saving? Do you like writing time-saving narratives? 
CLIENT: I don't, but... you know, David and his friends definitely are very (pause) believes it. Concerned about how they use their time.
THERAPIST: We need to stop for today, Cecelia, okay? I will see you on Monday.
CLIENT: At 10:15. 
THERAPIST: 10:15, you got it. Take care. Hope you feel better.
CLIENT: Thank you. (giggles)
END TRANSCRIPT
