TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is client 1923-018. Session number 11. March 4th, 1971. That is a really cute outfit.
PATIENT: Thank you. I feel so strange, walking around New York with a dress on!
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I would imagine so.
PATIENT: I never do it. When I first started working here, I used to wear dresses. At that time I was working with a lot of electro equipment. Something would pop and I would be crawling around the floor, looking, trying to find what had broken; what had popped. I was crawling around the ground because the wire was under the table and I was always ribbing my hoes and stuff. If there is nobody else in the lab, you can crawl around in a dress and it doesn't really bother anybody. You have got to maintain decorum while you are crawling all over the floor! My boss kept telling me to wear jeans: "Wear jeans." Finally, I started to wear them. Over in the (inaudible 1:20) site, it is so filthy over there that I wouldn't wear anything but just jeans. I wouldn't even wear a nice pant suit. I went job hunting today. I even had a girdle on - first time in two years. The only time I wear a dress is when I got to church on Sunday: I put a dress on with a coat over it; I never take it off. I am sitting here trying to remember how you are supposed to sit! I was in the waiting room (inaudible 1:50) and I had to sit there constantly reminding myself that you can't slouch and you can't cross your legs like this. You have got to sit there nice and polite - and don't slouch! I think this place - this employment agency that I went to: I think I got a good job out of it; I hope. I had another appointment today but I cancelled it because this company has...I want to get into some ecology work - I told you that - and they are responsible for getting the people for a couple of companies who are certainly interested in ecology, or who do ecology work. So this other interview was for a job in a hematology department at Pres. St. John's and I really didn't want to do that but I wasn't going to pass up any possibilities. It wasn't the right salary rate that I am used to. It is so funny: I make a fairly decent salary but I never have any money. If I had to make less money I would probably...I don't know what I'd get. People that make less money get along quite well but I don't know. Oh yeah, yeah - a meeting Tuesday night. some very nice things happened to me at that meeting Tuesday night. 0:03:36.0
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah? What happened.
PATIENT: Yes. Well, first of all, I didn't realize I had to do this at 7.30. I got home and all of a sudden I remembered. I was going to make my room mates some spaghetti and I got home and all of sudden I remembered I didn't have time. She wasn't getting home till about 7.00 and I had to leave - I had to get there by 7.30. And I got there and there was nobody there. I walked in in a pretty decent mood. There was just nobody there: a couple of people I knew their names but that was it. I was supposed to be there earlier for an officers' meeting and I was five minutes late and then the officers weren't there. One bad thing about the people I run around with is that I am usually five to 10 minutes late and I am always the first one there. So I flipped back and, at first I started to get depressed and I thought: "Well there are things that I can do: they will start coming in soon so don't worry about it." And I didn't. And I just got myself busy and by the time I ran out of things to do and was starting to get stuck, some people came in. So I was just talking to people and I don't recall having the feeling of uneasiness that I usually have, even when I am around people that I know. That uneasiness, kind of like: "Well, how are things going to go?" It wasn't there which was nice.
COUNSELOR: You really were relaxed?
PATIENT: I was sort of relaxed. The guy that I was with on the ski trip came in and he and I were talking and I was doing things that I had to do. The meeting started: it was a fairly good meeting; we had our financial report and an argument about money. It was so funny: you get a bunch of people together in a club like that and you are talking about their club and things we were planning to do and nobody listens. The minute you say "financial report" - dead silence. It doesn't matter what you are talking about; they won't listen unless they hear the words "financial report." Their money: you have got to tell them how much money they have. We had a good argument about that: it was kind of like, alive - the meeting was alive instead of dead. And then Anthony Jackson - a guy I have gone out with a couple of times - came in. We were standing around talking. He invited me to go out with him after the meeting was over. 0:06:23.1
COUNSELOR: That was good.
PATIENT: Yes, very nice. And he was being really nice to me. And then, I was taking money. We were watching a film on scuba diving at the time and I was standing there talking to him. Then, after that, after the movie was over, I was talking money - dues and stuff; some membership dues - and I had my wig on - my short wig - and I am sitting there writing out checks and people kept coming along and kissing me on the back of the neck and I didn't know who it was. And before I could turn around - I would be writing notes in my check stub - and it wasn't just one person. One guy - (inaudible 7:04) - did a couple of times. Why he did that I don't know, unless I was talking to someone else and he was trying to get my attention or something. I really don't know but he did it a couple of times, and somebody else did it - it happened several times. I don't even know who all the people were who did it.
COUNSELOR: It was very flattering!
PATIENT: I was sitting there: "Wow, is this nice!" And then, Adam came over and talked to me some more and I had all these people talking to me. For some reason, all of the people who were standing around giving me money were mostly guys. They would pay me their money and they would stay and talk. I was sitting there, taking money from people and talking to these people at the same time. There were about five or six guys there.
COUNSELOR: And they are all clustered around you.
PATIENT: Right, I was like: "Why are they talking to me?" I felt way better.
COUNSELOR: Talk about feeling special!
PATIENT: I don't know if I could take all this at once! I will live through it!
COUNSELOR: An embarrassment of riches!
PATIENT: Right, I didn't have any special interest in any of them but they are all really nice guys. It still was fantastic.
COUNSELOR: Five guys clustered around me?
PATIENT: They had already given me their money and they still stay. And then I was talking to Adam once more and Adam had to leave and I went downstairs and I counted out my money and then I was going to leave. I told Anthony I wouldn't go out with him because I was going to leave. I was gong to have one drink after I counted the money and then I was going to go home and go to bed. I never should have stopped for that one drink! I stopped for this one drink and Kai - who I have also gone out with a couple of times and that is all - said, "Hey, come over and talk to me." And we stood there and talked and he kept buying me drinks and I kept drinking them. I didn't leave there until two o'clock in the morning. I was in fairly bad shape but I was in better shape than...I wasn't dangerous on the roads or anything. We had a real good time just talking and laughing; just joking around. I mean, it was just talk. There were no hairy big silences or anything and we were just talking; not about anything important - just talking - and I really, really enjoyed it. All evening, I was kind of in this fantastically good mood which I had decided I was going to be in. 0:09:49.5
COUNSELOR: A-ha.
PATIENT: And I was just doing silly things. It was, like, sometime I want to do silly things and I just stop myself. So what I have been doing is that every time I have an idea, I don't stop myself - if I feel like doing something silly, I go ahead and do it. I thought that I was so stiff and everything. I didn't realize how many silly things that are kind of fun that I have ideas about that I never did do - that I stopped myself from doing before.
COUNSELOR: You have so many more ideas than you ever thought you had.
PATIENT: I guess I just always stopped myself from doing them and then forget about them.
COUNSELOR: Like they didn't quite register.
PATIENT: Right, and I can relax. I was having a really good time. I was being silly. After I got high, I was probably almost at the point of being obnoxious but not stupid-silly but just kind of, you know [puts on girly accent]: "I'm really silly and I am so funny." I was in fairly good form. Once in a while, I get in good form and everything I say comes out funny. I don't know, it just comes out that way. But I was in fairly good form that night. I think it was just the perfect night. Jesse didn't speak to me. He didn't; he really didn't - hardly at all. But that is alright. I made one attempt to talk to him. I said hello when he came in and then I went about my business and all evening I was doing something with somebody else. I was with about three guys that night - that is really nice. Like I said, when I was taking my money and everything - taking the money - people were walking by and biting me on the neck and kissing me on the back of the neck. So I walked over to ask Jesse, he had been over there, taking applications for the ski trip and I thought maybe he didn't get a chance to get his dues in or if he was going to pay or what. I walked over to ask him if he was going to pay his dues. He was sitting there, leaning forward, writing and his neck was like that, so I hit him on the back of the neck. Then I said: "Are you going to pay your dues?" (laughs) And he says: "No, I will mail it to you." And I said: "Alright, fine." 0:12:32.0
COUNSELOR: That is just an example of something that you could have stopped yourself from doing but you didn't and it was really kind of neat!
PATIENT: I enjoyed it. I don't know, he just kind of...I don't know if he enjoyed it or not. But I know he has got a sissy spot right here on his neck and I hit on purpose. That is what I was doing all night. I would stop, start, stop myself and just do it and I had a really good time. I just decided that I was going to have a good time. I just decided that I was going to be happy and I was; it wasn't an act I was really enjoying myself. My only problem now is I don't know how I did it. It is like every time I throw a strike, I sit up there: "How did I do that? Alright, do it again!" I felt like a success. That was one of my major triumphs. Now I want to go on the ski trip but I don't have any money. I hate having to worry about money. I don't necessarily want to have a lot of money; I just want to have so much money that I don't have to worry about it. Oh listen, I think this is going to have to be the last time that I come.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah?
PATIENT: I don't know how soon I am going to have a new job and I got the bill for this the other day and I didn't realize that it was adding up so fast.
COUNSELOR: It must have really shocked you.
PATIENT: Yes, it did. I don't know: I feel a lot better than I did that night. I am going to need the money in time for job hunting and stuff.
COUNSELOR: Will you go and take the tests from that guy - the guy who did the research project? There is this research project here. 0:15:04.6
PATIENT: Yeah, right. do you have to go and take the test again afterwards?
COUNSELOR: I think so, yeah.
PATIENT: I took them before.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, he (inaudible 15:13) before and after.
PATIENT: Well, sure, I will take them. I don't know, maybe you can tell me later who I have to get in touch with to take them.
COUNSELOR: Sure, sure.
PATIENT: Because I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I can give you his name.
PATIENT: I don't remember: I wrote it down somewhere. I was so nervous today about going in there. You have to take this test: a personality test.
COUNSELOR: Oh, for the job thing.
PATIENT: Yeah. I had to take a typing test but I don't type! I mean I type; I taught myself how to type. I am not bad. I typed today and I type 31 words a minute. That is the corrected score; 31 words after you take out all the mistakes and everything. I haven't typed in...while I was doing my independent study in school, I started out on an electric typewriter. That thing was about 50 pages long and I typed it three times. I was getting so...I can just whip through a whole page and nothing (inaudible 16:33), with no mistakes. That was almost two years ago. Since then my typing has gone downhill. I type a letter once in a while for the club as secretary. What happens is, I have a manual typewriter and on an electric typewriter you can go so fast. I started going too fast; faster than I can react to. I was really surprised because I want to be a technician: the job I am applying for is a technician. I said: "Well, I won't be using it." She said: "Yeah, I know but we have to give you the test anyway." And I said: "Well, 31 words a minute: that is not very impressive to put down." And she said: "That is alright because you won't be typing. You just have to take the test." I didn't take a typing test before - it is really strange. I was so nervous. I couldn't decide whether to try and go fast and gets lots of words and make lots of mistakes, or try and go slow and not get as many, but good words. So I went fast and I went slow and I went fast and I went slow! (chuckles) I would be going pretty fast, then I would get a little faster, then I would make lots of mistakes, then I would slow down again. 0:18:02.7
I don't know: I want to get a new job but I am kind of nervous about it, even though I get fed up with this one occasionally. But still, it is like I am learning everything all over again.
COUNSELOR: Like a big stew pot sort of beginning.
PATIENT: Right, yeah. There are things that I know how to do. I spent the whole day yesterday, printing and writing up resumes and getting mini-graphs and stuff. I have never written one up before and I couldn't remember what projects Dr Arrews said I had worked on before we were working on inhalation. After I started thinking about it, it came back to me more and more. I couldn't remember what to call it or anything. I had to run back over here and start looking at the equipment; and thinking; and looking in the book and stuff to find out what I was doing. I hate to feel stupid like that - and lost.
COUNSELOR: You don't really know what you are doing and you don't feel confident.
PATIENT: I already did that one before so I should know what they are going to ask.. It is like when I forget something that I used to know and I always feel bad when I go into a new job. They hired me to do things that I can't . And then I have to tell them I can't do them and they are going to get mad at me. I don't know, I worry about that. If I get a new job, is it going to make it that much worse. Dr Arrews kind of has an idea of what I can do - and where I am going to have to have some extra help and stuff.
COUNSELOR: But it is not like starting all over with someone who maybe thinks you can do all of these...much, much more and is going to be terribly disappointed?
PATIENT: Right, I hate to have anybody think I can do more than I can do. I don't mind if people think I can do less than I can do - then I can surprise them by being able to do more than they thought I could. But I don't want anybody to think that I can do more. My Mom always says that I can do...I probably can do more than I think I can do, and I would end up over-estimating my powers. Granted, there was stuff when I first started with Dr Arrews I didn't know how to do that I do know how to do now. I learned it and I am willing to learn anything: it is just that I don't want them to think that I can already do it. I suppose they are expecting they are going to have to train me and everything. It doesn't matter what you do: unless you have been doing it for years, you are still going to have to be trained. I am a kind of chicken, I guess - I am just a chicken! But it is going to be like starting anew all over. 0:21:27.6
COUNSELOR: Everything is scary; partly exciting.
PATIENT: Yeah, and even more exciting is that I am going to be...Ariel and I are going to be getting an apartment together, which will be different. I really don't think Ariel and I will have too much trouble living together. I don't think we will spend that much time together. She and I like to go places and do stuff together. I enjoy doing things with her. We will be living in some place brand new and hopefully we will be living in an apartment full of young, unmarried people or something like that. That would be very nice: I would enjoy that. So it is just like starting all over again.
COUNSELOR: Everything is starting all over again.
PATIENT: Yeah, like May 1st: I don't have an apartment anymore - the lease is up; I don't have a job anymore.
COUNSELOR: It is almost like you will step into a different life or something.
PATIENT: Right, and maybe it is going to be a totally different job; maybe doing things like going around testing different streams and lakes for these people. And maybe working for a company, you know, that has...somebody that has responded to the cries about pollution and are putting pollution control people in their own companies to tell them if the stuff they are pouring into the rivers is too acid; or too base; or too hot; or too cold; of if it has got chemicals in it or stuff like that. And I may be traveling around to different mills or different people's (inaudible 23:34), driving around and meeting all kinds of people which I would really enjoy. I would like to have Chrissie's job: she used to drive around all over the place. I wouldn't mind doing that - I really wouldn't. What I wouldn't want to do is try to sell these people something. I don't mind going around seeing these people: I like that - going around meeting people and everything.
COUNSELOR: As long as you don't have to impose yourself on them in that way. 0:24:00.1
PATIENT: Right, I can talk but I am not trying to sell them anything and I am just checking wires. I suppose I would have a little power, which is not bad. People would be nice to me: they wouldn't be mean to me as if I were selling or something. I don't like selling things but I like to meet people. That is one bad thing about the (inaudible 24:28) lab. I mean, working at the university is kind of like that. "Gee whiz, all of these people my own age; places to go; all these students - I am just going to have this fantastic time." Well, first of all, the whole time I worked here I did not meet - when I first started working here - anybody who was my age that was single. Even if I wanted to go out and meet kids - like go to Joe's; go to places where there are kids - I can't walk into Joe's by myself. I just can't do things like that. And even if I walk into like the Commons or one of the coffee shops around here, I wouldn't start talking to somebody - I just couldn't do it. I wanted to meet somebody who was already in a group of people.
COUNSELOR: Like if you worked with somebody or something.
PATIENT: Right, yeah, a graduate student or something, but nobody over in the (inaudible 25:23) club, I have my very own building and there is just me and my radio. I just don't ever see anybody. Even if I work in a lab - a big lab - at least I have people to talk to, even if I didn't socialize with them. I wouldn't feel so bad about not socializing with people in situations, like, outside my own age. I am an employee but this isn't really a business, like if I was out in the business world. I do not consider the university the business world.
COUNSELOR: I missed you there.
PATIENT: Well, when I am working for Dr Arrews, I am an employee and it is like a business; it is a business for me; it is a business for him as a teacher. Since the people around here are my own age, it is like a college community, I feel kind of bad that I am in it but not "in it." I would like to socialize with the people around here because they are my own age.
COUNSELOR: It sort of makes you feel badly when you see so many people around your own age and yet you are not socializing with them. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know any. But if I am in this company - this big company with all these people and all different variety of ages and everything - if I socialize with any of the people from work, fine. If I don't, well, I didn't expect to but around here I expected to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so it is a disappointment. 0:27:00.9
PATIENT: Right, yeah. I actually don't know how you would go about meeting people around here, except just by working with them and by being in classes with them in stuff, -except I don't have any classes. It is really difficult. The only students I ever did meet were always students of Dr Arrews and most of Dr Arrews were undergraduates. Not that I have anything against undergraduates, I am just, like, three of four years older than they. They can't do things like walk into Joes's this weekend! (Inaudible 27:42) speaking, the are just not much too good to me (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Can you bitch with any graduate students?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know if the have a big brother or something. There was one graduate student working with Dr Arrews. I had great aspirations for him as far as a friend goes and being able to introduce me to other people. But he never did. There isn't much I can do about it. I was like: "Ed I wan you to introduce me to some of your friends. I am getting tired of living down here and not knowing anybody." He said: "Alright, but I don't have any friends!" He never even introduced me to the friends he didn't have - you know, the few that he had.
COUNSELOR: So it didn't work?
PATIENT: No, I am getting kind of tired of every time, like Tuesday night, tonight I am going to go (inaudible 28:44) because they are having a party. It is so far to drive: it takes over a half an hour to get there and a half an hour to get back. If I want to go out to my Mom's house, that is 40 miles one way. And she still lives in New York! It is so funny: if I had a friend that lived in...I used to live in Manhattan (inaudible 29:11) and I had friend study at...Okay, for example, when I was in college in Boston, in (inaudible 29:18), Cambridge is only 35 miles away and I have a car and it just seemed like so far to go to be going to Cambridge every week to see Mandy, and yet I don't consider it far at all to go out and see my Mom. It actually took less time for me to get to up to Mandy's in Cambridge than it does for me to get to Mom's house because of the speed limits and all of the traffic and everything, and there are 35 and 45 mile an hour speed limits. It was 70 miles an hour from Cambridge...it was a straight shot from Boston to Cambridge, 70 miles an hour. It took a half an hour, maybe a little more, but it just seemed like, I don't know, it just seemed like so far to be going up there every weekend. But this is still Massachusetts - it may be further - but it is still in Massachusetts.
COUNSELOR: Are you thinking of moving north and being closer?
PATIENT: Yes, we are going to move somewhere north, maybe north and west.
COUNSELOR: You and Ariel?
PATIENT: Yeah, we will probably stay in New York. She works downtown. Or if we could just live somewhere near the expressway so she can get to work. It will kind of depend on where I can get a job, unless I just don't have any idea where I am going to get a job. We want to put money on our apartment by the middle of April. She found this really neat one somewhere in Manhattan for $300 a month with two bedrooms. It was really nice, she said. and it is available May 1st, which is perfect - if I have my income tax return back by then! That is going to be (inaudible 31:05). But $300 a month - that is only $150 a month a piece - that is not bad at all, especially when you get out of Central Park. Last week, me and Ariel were pricing apartments and stuff - like north, on or near north and further north and out west. Fantastic, these new apartments. They want $160 or $170 a month for a one bedroom: they want $160 or $170 a month for something that would have a living room about this size.
COUNSELOR: That is incredible.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think Central Park area is being expensive.
PATIENT: No, Central Park is just about the cheapest place you can find for the quality: you can get cheaper apartments but for the quality, most of the apartments I have seen and the prices people pay for them, they are not bad at all. Three hundred is an exceptional deal that we found. I think Ariel has said she seen it but I am not sure. But apartments are super expensive - they really are. You want to go to some place like (inaudible 32:13) Village - have you heard of (inaudible 32:16) Village?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Did I tell you about that? They want something like $200 for one...(inaudible 32:22) is living in a two bedroom apartment out at Coney Island and their rent for an apartment - two bedrooms - is $350 a month.
COUNSELOR: Is that just for two bedrooms?
PATIENT: Two bedrooms, right. My father rents his house: it has got three bedrooms; and a living room; and a family room; and a backyard; and everything for $300.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And she is paying $275 for the whole apartment. (inaudible 32:59) Village is supposedly the place to live. It is a crumby place: the walls are paper thin. All they have got is, like, you know that plaster board? 0:33:08.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah I know what you mean.
PATIENT: And that is it, between the two wall - that is it. Plaster board, a space and plaster board - and that is it. There is really nothing nice. You pay like $200 - the rent starts at $200 or maybe $150 or $160 for an efficiency apartment - and then goes up. It is a crumby little building and I heard from this guy that I was dating; he had a friend who lived there. One day, there was this girl and she walked into her apartment and the bathroom was over here - and a shower. She has got tile on top of plaster board and that is all it is. She was in the shower and she slipped on a piece of soap and fell backwards against the wall and the whole wall collapsed out into the hall (laughs).
COUNSELOR: That is really good.
PATIENT: And that is the way they are building these places. And then you have to pay so much money for them - it is just ridiculous. My father rents his house out: it is a three bedroom house; two baths; a kitchen and a living room; a garage; a great big back yard and front yard; a patio; it had got a cemented and caged in area for a dog; a big (inaudible 34:33); a big back patio; an a big yard that is fenced in. He is renting it for $300 a month. That is not bad. I was thinking: if we could get one other person, or get a two bedroomed house for $200 a month, or get a three bedroomed house for $300 a month - that is $100 piece for three girls and it is a fantastic deal.
COUNSELOR: Especially compared to an apartment in (inaudible 35:08).
PATIENT: Yeah, especially in an apartment where they can hear through the walls and stuff like that. If you want to get an apartment...they build apartment buildings...there are some apartment buildings where they take very good, extra care when they build them and you cannot hear through the walls and they have swimming pools and they have all hat kind of stuff but the rent on those kind of places starts high. Two guys I know live out in this one place: it is very, very nice. Very, very nice. The entrance: you walk in the door and there is first floor and second floor; the second floor goes...there are two winding staircases on it. It is very nice: it has got a pool - an indoor/outdoor pool - it had got an indoor/outdoor park; they have got saunas and all kinds of neatsy (ph) stuff like that. Plus you cannot get through the walls; and there are two beds and two baths. I think they pay something like $450 a month. That is fantastic. The guys I know that live in apartments like that are in the construction business - who have money. I guess I would like to live (inaudible 36:35). Like my Mom's house where they pay rent, it hasn't got a dining room; it has got a dining room-living room area, where you can put a fancy dining table or something. So I have got a dining room and a living room now - and a kitchen. We will probably furnish the apartment and the house - a small house. And when you consider how much more you are getting - for $25 more than she is paying - three bedrooms and you have a backyard and a dog and everything. All you have to do is put up with the kids in the neighborhood! 0:37:27.2
COUNSELOR: I am thinking about the changes in (inaudible 37:38): all sorts of nice possibilities are opening up.
PATIENT: Right, yeah. Like I said before, it is scary and it is kind of exciting. I just don't want to let myself get scared by it - it is something new. It will be alright: I have got good qualifications, I keep telling myself that. I read over my resume: "Well, that is a very impressive resume!" (chuckles) And everybody I have read it said it was a good...you know, Dr Hyder read it; he said it was well done, I had covered the subject very fairly and had not gone too verbose in the descriptions of what I had done. It is fairly explosive and short, and everybody else that read it said it was impressive and the lady at the employment agency said it was very impressive; and my grades were impressive; and everything was impressive. And I was sitting there: "But you can't find me a job!" (chuckles) I didn't say that to her - what I was thinking - but I bet she can't find me a job. I suspect she...I don't know, we have got two months anyway; I am glad we didn't wait any longer. I am starting to feel panicked now. 0:39:02.0
COUNSELOR: About getting a job?
PATIENT: Yeah, but I am just going to calm down for a while because it is going to take a while to make some contacts and stuff. They don't have any job openings per se that they have got rep positions for. She has got to write to these people who they supply the personnel to. She said it might take two or three weeks but I think probably about April 15th I could be a screaming idiot. I would like to have everything settled by then. I would like to start my new job: I will start it anytime before May 1st if I get it, but I would lie to start May 1st.
COUNSELOR: So that you don't have dead time - if you get a job.
PATIENT: There are two ways of looking at it: I would like to start May 1st but if I am moving into my apartment on May 1st, it might be better if I worked up to May 1st and moved into my apartment - and then had a week before I started my new job. I have got to get acquainted with the area that I am living in. I wanted to take some type of a vacation. I haven't taken a vacation in a while and I would hate to quit this job...I haven't had a real vacation since last summer. In a new job, I won't be eligible for a vacation in a year and it is a long time to go without a vacation so I really would like - especially if I could scrape together a little extra money. Like, I get an extra paycheck in April and I would take that extra paycheck and take a...you know, not maybe...I would like to go someplace but I don't know where I could go. But just take a vacation anyway: stay at home; sleep till noon; do nothing.
COUNSELOR: Relax, take it easy.
PATIENT: Have a chance to fix up the apartment like I want to. I would enjoy that: I think I will do that but I don't think I should start right into a new job without a vacation. But I don't want to have a forced vacation by showing up May 1st with no job, I don't want to have to.
COUNSELOR: That is no vacation. 
PATIENT: No, no.
COUNSELOR: When you are sitting around panicking. 0:41:55.7
PATIENT: Right, yeah. I will be panicking at home. I don't even want to think about it. I am not going to think about it anymore until 1st of April, then I will start thinking about it. I would like to get an apartment before everyone starts coming home from school because that is when the rents are going to start going up. That is when you are going to have difficulty finding one and you are going to have to take something a little more expensive to get one.
COUNSELOR: Is that so?
PATIENT: The low prices will usually go first.
COUNSELOR: I suppose, yeah.
PATIENT: All the kids are going to be graduating from school; and they are going to be coming home; and they are going to be getting jobs; and they are going to want new apartments. I want to get a job and apartment before they come home.
COUNSELOR: Right!
PATIENT: If worse comes to worse, every day you look in the paper: "Switchboard receptionist needed; no experience required." Well, I have had experience as a switchboard receptionist and if the worst comes to the worse, I would go home and move back in with my parents, and work as a switchboard receptionist.
COUNSELOR: You wouldn't get caught with no job, no money, no nothing.
PATIENT: No, right, but if I take a job as a switchboard receptionist, I am going to take a very large cut in salary but I think anytime, I could probably go back same place I worked summers when I was in college, working with Mr. (inaudible 43:52). Every summer before I would leave to go back to school, he would say: " Why don't you forget finishing college and come and work for me permanently as my assistant?" "Oh, I have got to finish college; thanks anyway. I want to be a biologist, not a business woman." If I walked in and told him the job was just temporary until I get another biology job: "Do you need any temporary help for a while? Is anybody going on vacation?" I know the running...I used to know the running of the whole entire operation. I know how the purchasing department is set up: I know how the accounting department is set up and I know how to work the switchboards. I wouldn't have to be trained and he is pretty good about giving me a job just for the summer. He might: he would say no or yes. I would certainly tell him it is just temporary.
COUNSELOR: But it is like another possibility. 0:45:00.3
PATIENT: Yeah, and I could live at home because that is not really far from home. I could get a job as a receptionist and when I find out about a new job, just quit. I don't really like that on my work record at all - you know, get a job and quit real soon.
COUNSELOR: Like it looks unstable of something?
PATIENT: I suppose if worse come to the worse, I can go down to Walgreen's and get a job as a cashier for a couple of months. I would be living at home and that would give me some spending money and I wouldn't be, like, leeching off my parents. Oh, I am getting depressed (chuckles). I am going to get a job before that happens - I don't even need to worry about it!
COUNSELOR: Or thinking about going to Walgreen's and being a cashier.
PATIENT: Yeah, I used to be a cashier in Walgreen's a long time ago. It is one of my earlier jobs. I sold clothes at the cashier at three different Walgreen's. I was a swim instructor, a lab assistant at school - I am going to get a job somewhere.
COUNSELOR: Somebody will want you?
PATIENT: Yeah, somebody will want me. I was looking through the newspaper and there were, like, 10 zillion jobs for secretaries. There are also jobs for receptionists: "Switchboard receptionists wanted; Switchboard receptionists wanted." There is usually about a half a column of those: they are always wanting switchboard receptions, so I can get a job like that because I have had experience. That is another thing in my favor that I do have a little over a year and a half worth of experience. I will have, by May 1st, almost two years of experience as a research technician. Where a company would...with the same background that I have, a company might not hire me with no experience. They would with a year and half worth of experience. It is probably a little more money than I am making here. do you know what? Looking for jobs, I found out that these research jobs...people told me the NYU pays low and they really don't pay...they pay higher than the State of New York does, except of one job that I hooked in to. They don't really pay that much lower than some of these other places.
COUNSELOR: That surprises me too.
PATIENT: And I always thought that they did. RN's don't even make that much money; they don't make that much more than I am making. The only thing that I am (inaudible 4:07), medical technicians and stuff like that; when training: the salaries that they quote in the newspapers for people needing medical technicians is not as much as I am making now and these people are more highly trained than I am. They may not necessarily have more education - some of them less - but they are highly trained people in the field and they are just not paying them. I think the people who pay the most money for the jobs is Presbyterian St John's - the hospital does. And they pay more money because they are in such a crumby neighborhood - they can't get people to work for them. worse come to the worse, I think I could get a job there doing something.
COUNSELOR: Something or other.
PATIENT: It will be in a bad area - and then go find myself a policeman to start dating! Start dating a policeman on the beat or something or find myself a very big guy. I wouldn't live there but I would work there. It isn't too bad there in the day time: Julie - this girl at work - her husband used to work there. She used to work here and he used to work there and she would drop him off on the way from...they lived out in, oh, way out down the interstate. She used to drop him off and pick him up at night, even in the winter time. She never had any problems.
 I was really pleased with myself Tuesday night - I was really relaxed. This is, again, another time when I forgot to have a talk with myself. I forget to arrange my mind but it worked out anyway. I just was not...like I say, in the beginning, It just started out that I didn't feel uncomfortable. People started coming in...usually, people say hello to me and everything...the minute people started arriving, I am uncomfortable when people aren't there and I am uncomfortable when people are.
COUNSELOR: But somehow you got over that transition.
PATIENT: Right, I just didn't have any feeling of awkwardness, which is kind of what it is. I just had a good time. I don't know how I popped on the idea of not stopping myself when I want to do things but I was having a good time and I thought it was stupid not to.
COUNSELOR: However you figured that out, it really works. 0:51:00.2
PATIENT: Right. Like I say, I don't think I would do it again. I wasn't really doing anything. Let us see what happens tonight because I am going back to the same place tonight.
COUNSELOR: Will it work again tonight?
PATIENT: I don't know. I told Ariel the other day and she said: "Listen, do you want to go to the party?" And I said: "No, not really." And she said: "Oh. come on." I said: "Alright, I will go for a little while." I kind of didn't want to go back. What if it doesn't work this time? What I am going to start being afraid of was that it wasn't me; it was just circumstances. I want to think it was me. I think it just blew my mind when I was sitting there writing. I don't know, maybe someone would have done it before I didn't have long hair - I didn't cut my hair off for nothing. Sitting there, people were walking up and biting me on the back of the neck. Strange, out of the clear blue sky; writing and all of a sudden...(laughs)
COUNSELOR: They just come at you!
PATIENT: What is this? I just kind of at there. And Byron said: "Why didn't you jump?" And I said: "Why should I jump? It feels good!" I don't know, I didn't jump like I had been tickled or something. Maybe I should stretch my neck a little more!
COUNSELOR: You said: "Mmm!"
PATIENT: It was the strangest thing. Why he did that, I don't know - he just doesn't do things like that. I have never seen him do things like that before. Maybe he was just sitting there bored or felt like biting someone's neck. It was just that evening - I had a really good evening.
COUNSELOR: It was so nice to get enough attention.
PATIENT: I was so pleased with myself. I just kept going. I was getting the attention that I wanted and I wasn't even upset by Jesse and his reaction and everything. I don't know, I think once I get started and get reinforcing reactions from other people, it helps.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:53:42.2
PATIENT: It is just getting started. It is so funny, I was kind of acting like I was high and I wasn't. It was so funny: I was talking to Kai. He said: "Come over here." I went over and started talking to him. I was kind of giggly and high, you know. We were talking and everything and he said: "You have been drinking." Or something...oh, he used to kid me; he is the one who used to embarrass me so bad. We would sit there and we would drink all night and I would never get high because I was drinking bourbon and white. I can drink seven or eight of them and stay sober. He made some comment that I was high off (inaudible 54:32) in the evening for the way I drink. And I said: "Yeah, I suppose so." Later on I told him...later on I was getting high, I said: "Do you know when I first walked up here?" He said: "Yeah." I said: "I wasn't high - I was sober." And he said: "Right, and what state are you in right now?" I didn't have the feeling I was putting on a show or play acting. I was just feeling good, being reinforced by all of these other people. It was pleasant.
COUNSELOR: We should quit.
PATIENT: Okay. Can I have the name of the guy?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.
PATIENT: I will try to call him tomorrow. You don't know what his extension is, do you?
COUNSELOR: I will give him your number too.
PATIENT: Okay, great. Did I see him before?
COUNSELOR: Probably.
PATIENT: I will recognize him if I see him.
COUNSELOR: There are probably two of them.
PATIENT: Yeah, two people.
COUNSELOR: He was probably the first one I think.
PATIENT: I can't remember which was which.
COUNSELOR: Right!
PATIENT: One was dark hair and one was light hair.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is the dark-haired one. It was nice talking with you.
PATIENT: Thank you very much - you really, really helped me.
COUNSELOR: That is nice.
PATIENT: I feel that I have improved greatly!
COUNSELOR: That is very nice.
PATIENT: Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, Tuesday night sounds super successful!
PATIENT: I don't think they are all going to be like that. I haven't completely changed or anything like that. I have got the feeling of being me and so having a good time; and not really changing that much - just more relaxing. If I get real good at this I am going to quit going to the (inaudible 57:31) and go somewhere else where I can find more interesting people - when I get my social graces finalized.
COUNSELOR: Yes, yes.
PATIENT: Listen, thank again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, take care Karen.
PATIENT: Bye bye. 
COUNSELOR: Bye bye now.
PATIENT: Do you want me to close the door?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Bye. 0:57:49.7
END TRANSCRIPT
