TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Side 1, Track 1; side 1, track 1; client 0724-027; client 0724-027. Interview number one. Interview number one. Robinson, counselor.
COUNSELOR: Now let me... we, we have 20 sessions together.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Maximum of 20 and really they're, they're yours... they're your hours to use as you wish to talk about what you really wish.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: It would probably be very helpful to me if you do tell me what brings you here, though.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, I... the... the first hour that talked to me and I wrote some things down and the... I've sort of boiled down two things that I... that are kind of bothersome kinds of things that I have a conscious awareness of but can't really work them out. And -  [0:01:00.8]
COUNSELOR: You mean their... you can sense that they're there and you know what they are, but not - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - what to do with them?
CLIENT: Yeah I'm pretty much aware of them, but like one of the basic things is that I, I just haven't any self-confidence in myself and I just feel like I've got to be able to do something about it and I haven't been able to do anything about it. And so I really kind of would like to be able to work something out and I, I don't know where to begin or where to go with it, but that's one of the issues. 
And the other issue, which probably is somewhat interrelated, is, is, I I've been going with going with a guy for four years and, and I, guess around that is... are some sex hang-ups that I have. I suppose they're probably interrelated, too. You know, lack of confidence but those are kind of two sorts of issues that I want to deal with. [0:01:58.1]
COUNSELOR: Can you t... can you say more about the self-confidence? I mean I, I kind of sense like when you look at yourself, like you can really sense you don't have the confidence in yourself, that you'd really just like to have.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, several things. When I was in undergraduate school I was working in drama. It was a small school and I did a lot of acting and I guess I was pretty good, but... and I gave some consideration to going into it as a profession but felt like I really wasn't good enough. And I kind of feel like if I had more confidence in myself as an individual I might have pursued that, so I worked for a year and now I'm in graduate school for teaching.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like kind of like you kind of copped out from kind of trying to make a try at going into drama?
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, like I really didn't think I'd be good at it. And one of - 
COUNSELOR: Prevented yourself from ever finding that out. [0:02:59.1]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, sort of and now as I approach really working as a teacher, I'm not really convinced of my capabilities to be a very good worker with kids and the-there's... I guess lots of things point to there's no reason why I should feel that way, like most of the things that I attempt to do, I'm fairly successful at, but I kind of back off in that I, I don't feel very, as though I'm good at it as (inaudible at 0:03:30.7)
COUNSELOR: You mean it's kind of like from some kind of objective standpoint you are good, but that doesn't mean that much to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, like I can slow... sometimes objectify myself from a situation and see that well maybe I'm not really that bad, but when it comes down to really emotional involvement, really feeling about it, I don't feel very good.
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk) you feel?
CLIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: What do you feel? [0:03:57.3]
CLIENT: Well, like I get very frustrated, like I'm just, I just am not good enough, like I'm really... don't have enough insight, I don't know when to say the right things or how to be supportive, like I'm not - 
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you're constantly watching yourself and measuring yourself? Because I kind of sense that might be in there.
CLIENT: Yeah, I suppose I do.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Kind of like always... thing some kind of internal yardstick.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: On what you do - 
CLIENT: Yeah, like I said of expectations I guess maybe sometimes they're higher than are realistic, I don't know. But it still comes down to... I don't know, I... I'm trying to think of there's other re... way that I see this, but I, I can't think of anything offhand, I don't... I guess, well one of the things, it's real easy for me to be influenced by people that I'm with and I have a lot of ideas on my own, but I, but I don't always assert myself about them and to other people. [0:05:11.7]
COUNSELOR: You mean like, it's like you keep them inside and so you never act on them and you never kind of prove kind of or really know yourself that you can follow through on what's inside yourself.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I mean I can talk about things, but I, but I don't always carry through because I'm not sure that it's going to work - 
COUNSELOR: Yes.
CLIENT:  - I'm going to keep at it.
COUNSELOR: Is that kind of part of like kind of being scared and lacking self-confidence beforehand so you don't, you don't a - 
CLIENT: Sometimes don't even do it, yeah. Like, like going into teaching became a thing because people around me were very supportive of me and said I could do that, I'd probably be good and I, and I was working with kids and I liked it so, so I got into it. [0:06:03.7]
COUNSELOR: But is there something in there you got into it, for what health (ph) you get into is not knowing inside yourself if you could do it, but kind of other people.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I, I don't know, in a way it's sort of like being directed by other people to do it and on the other hand I felt like I really wanted to do it. It wasn't totally anybody else's decision and I was influenced by other people, though, and I'm doing it. (Silence) I... some of the like right now I'm feeling like I, I need, I'm not sure where to go in, in talking to you, I guess I'm feeling that I need you to present some questions or ask something because I'm not sure where to go.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well I, I mean I'm just trying to, I'm just starting to get a sense of what you're saying, I mean, I'd like if you can try to... see the type of... I mean like I don't really need information but the facts, I mean, I'm, I just really -  [0:07:15.1]
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - want to try to understand how you do feel about what's bothering you, I'm just going to get a much... a fuller, a full picture. Let me ask you this, the... but maybe it might help if you could give me some examples, do you understand what I mean? Like of how you feel when you don't act, like you're scared to act and you depend on other people.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, that kind of my - 
CLIENT: I usually - 
COUNSELOR:  - to get... I want to try to get a flavor of what it is that you - 
CLIENT: Like, well I guess, when... I'm just going to throw some stuff out, I don't know whether it's - 
COUNSELOR: Okay.
CLIENT:  - relevant to anything or not, but like one thing I've become aware of myself is that I've got a rotten memory, I can't remember things and I have a hard time listening to people. People will be sitting around and we'll just be talking and perhaps it'll be personal things, perhaps it'll be intellectualizing kinds of things and I have a very difficult time concentrating on what people are saying and even sorting out what they're saying and understanding what they're saying. While it may be very easy to understand if I just pay attention. [0:08:20.3]
COUNSELOR: Where are you?
CLIENT: I might be in my apartment with my - 
COUNSELOR: No, I don't mean physically, where are you (crosstalk)  - 
CLIENT: I don't know, I just start imagining things, like kind of go off on my own thing.
COUNSELOR: Is it that you're bored or is it because - 
CLIENT: Sometimes I think it's I'm just bored and I don't know... I don't like to think but I'm afraid in some ways it's, the attention isn't on me and I'm not, and I can't get myself fully involved in what they're saying. It's really hard to do that.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like that's kind of like a lack on yourself if you can't really, like you're not being, there's nothing about you that's pre... you know, you f-you feel bad that you're not being responsive to people? [0:08:59.1]
CLIENT: Yeah, like I just discovered myself becoming terribly preoccupied with myself and I don't want to be like that, I don't, I... it kind of revolves around having considered for a long time, for example, coming here and, and how to do that, what to do about that and, and where I'm at with myself.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel that there's something wrong or bad about that?
CLIENT: Kind of?
COUNSELOR: No, being concerned about yourself.
CLIENT: No, except that it is if it becomes so encompassing that you can't deal with other things, that you can't be responsive to other people who may be close to you, like people who are close to me and being responsive to their needs and - 
COUNSELOR: Do you find that that happens with your boyfriend? You know, that - 
CLIENT: Not as much as it used to, it used to be very much of that, that I was just very self-centered and I've become a lot more responsive to him and his needs than I used to be. I'd say like perhaps in the, since last summer. [0:10:07.1]
COUNSELOR: So it kind of, I still sense that there... it's like you're just not totally satisfied with the how - 
CLIENT: Well.
COUNSELOR:  - how responsive you are to people.
CLIENT: Well, he's a very giving person and a very sharing person and it's much harder for me to share with people. It's much harder for me to give. Like, I can't, it's really stupid, I get up-upset when, I want to give something to someone, but then I get all tied up in I want something back from it, too. I want to - 
COUNSELOR: And as soon as like you start to feel like you can give, it's like what do I also get.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't really want to be that way, I want to give because it's, it's a good feeling.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it feels good to give.
CLIENT: But then I, I get this ridiculous thing that I want something back in return. [0:11:00.6]
COUNSELOR: And how does that you make feel about yourself?
CLIENT: Rather guilty, like that's not a good thing... way to be.
COUNSELOR: And you, when you see yourself - 
CLIENT: Selfish.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like when you see yourself doing that, you kind of I guess see yourself as a selfish person, don't like the person you see.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right. A lot of things is I guess I look at myself and I don't see a lot of things that I like.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. You see kind of things that worry you and trouble you and make you feel bad about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, a lot of negative things that I, that I don't think ought to be there.
COUNSELOR: What other kinds (ph) besides selfishness?
CLIENT: (Silence) Well, it goes along with being selfish is that sometimes inconsiderate of other people around me.
COUNSELOR: As you talk and fantasize you feel a little hesitant about saying these things about yourself, does it make you feel bad or.... [0:12:04.6]
CLIENT: No, they're things I've said to myself before, it's not really... I just... I guess I come in rather focused on two things and had sort of pushed aside a lot of other things, kind of thing. I, when, I guess I look at myself and I look at my mother and I see myself very much like her and I don't want to be like her. You know, I like her, she's an okay person, but I see a lot of her faults that I don't want to have.
COUNSELOR: Like, what - 
CLIENT: Like being kind of wishy-washy and rather submissive. I don't know if I'm, I don't know if I'm really submissive, I hadn't really thought that I was, but I'm... I guess it's a possibility just in terms of not standing up for things when I -  [0:13:04.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I really sense it's like when you try to... in talking about yourself and you kind of try to say what you are, like there's, you're not quite sure and you know that there are a lot of things you don't like and you feel really kind of not sure about who you are that you do like, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I - 
COUNSELOR: In kind of real positive senses.
CLIENT: I know I have a quality of being able to talk with people and make people feel comfortable and I know that's a good quality, but sometimes I feel like I exploit it for myself for my own feeling goods. Like I can entertain people, joking and all that kind of crap and people have a real good time and I have a good time having people enjoy themselves, but I'm not some, so sure how much of it I'm just giving so that they have fun as much as I know I'm getting something from it - 
COUNSELOR: Giving something.
CLIENT:  - too. It's like I need to have people tell me I'm good, I need to have people praise me, yeah, those kinds of thing. [0:14:05.0]
COUNSELOR: And you really look to people for the kind of support you don't feel that you get just from inside yourself and - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - (crosstalk) about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I, that's like a dependency on other people for that. You go along and your doing some... and perhaps in terms of the teaching thing and working with groups of kids or whatever it is and not having a very good sense of competence about it and it... if someone were to say, you are making progress with a group of kids, you are doing a good job, that helps me, give me encouragement.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I sense what you're saying is that it's always like you have to look outside.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Outside for (inaudible at 0:14:49.0) people because you don't feel that inside yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I, I'm... my begin (ph) is like even when people tell me I'm good that I'm not sure I even believe them. Well, what happened when I was working in the theater is I got a lot of praise, people liked the stuff I did, but I began to think like it's really not that good if I, if I start to attempt to work professionally, it's not really good that I can make it and not even making an attempt to do that and now, the work I'm doing, I get praise for it, sometimes, and I'm sometimes not convinced that it's really... that I really deserve it, deserved (inaudible) -  [0:15:44.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of, isn't that... is there something in there kind of like momentarily that praise can feel good, but you know, in a way you know it's kind of like you're too sophisticated for that or know that it may be... that's kind of an artificial. I mean that's from outside where it's inside, it really shouldn't be that way. [0:16:02.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I should be able to feel a good feeling inside without having to have someone else that's good.
COUNSELOR: But you don't.
CLIENT: No. And I've realized that you know, and I guess sometimes I've made attempts to work it out, but I just haven't been able to and I'm not sure where else to go with it.
COUNSELOR: How do you go about working them out, you know, when you say you make attempts to work it out?
CLIENT: Well I guess I try to look at things from a, rather than a negative subjective view, like a... look at the positives and - 
COUNSELOR: When you say negative subjective, you don't understand - 
CLIENT: You know, like - 
COUNSELOR:  - in yourself.
CLIENT:  - I feel bad and I say you're really shitty, you did a cruddy job, you - 
COUNSELOR: Kind of browbeating yourself. [0:16:54.2]
CLIENT: Yeah, and then it's so well what did you do good about it, like you also did this and you did that, and like well, you know you didn't do so bad after all instead of just looking at it negatively. But it's much easier to fall back and feel negative about, it's much easier for me to feel negative about myself than to feel positive about myself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of because that's the overriding sense (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that's kind of hard for you to try to force the positive side because it's like the negative just feels so much more there (ph) - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - and real.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it seems like sometimes I do have good feelings about myself and successful feelings, but I prefer to be able to feel better and more confident, even if I'm doing something and it doesn't work out and it's not right. Okay, well people make mistakes that's, that's a human thing.
COUNSELOR: Are your good feelings kind of transitory like it doesn't take much to turn the tide the other way? [0:17:52.5]
CLIENT: Yeah. I... (Silence) Well, I don't know, I... it just seems to me that I ought to be able to be able feel confident about myself, whether I... whether I make a mistake or not. It's like I can't make mistakes because when I mistakes, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, making mistakes are really, they take on very big significance for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Why, why are you so hard on yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know, like I really don't know, that's - 
COUNSELOR: I mean because it's very much striking me that you're very - 
CLIENT: That's the question - 
COUNSELOR:  - hard on yourself.
CLIENT:  - I don't know, I do-there's, like I have trouble expressing emotions to people. Now I don't know what connection that makes with being hard on myself, on the other hand I- things I've done in my life, I'm not so awfully bad at. [0:19:06.3]
COUNSELOR: Well one of the - 
CLIENT: Sometimes I feel just mediocre, like not especially good - 
COUNSELOR: Not much - 
CLIENT:  - not especially - 
COUNSELOR:  - of anything.
CLIENT:  - yeah.
COUNSELOR: Not a terrible person, but just nothing - 
CLIENT: It's - 
COUNSELOR:  - solid to kind of make you feel resonate inside.
CLIENT: Sometimes I guess I feel like I have to be an outs... I have to be outstanding and if I'm not, that's not good enough. On the other hand, I also recognize that I just don't have a lot of the what intelligence, the emotional kinds of things to be an outstanding person in some things.
COUNSELOR: (Background noise) emotional kinds of things to be, because about a minute or two ago you said like you have a hard time expressing emotions to people. I somehow think that might be the... kind of... can you say more about it? [0:19:56.4]
CLIENT: Well, I, it's very hard for me to really care about someone, to love somebody and it's very hard for me to express it if I do. It's very hard for me to, I can be angry, but I don't really express it the way it's appropriate to express it. Like people can hurt me and I won't show it.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel it though? See because like with the love thing you were kind of saying like it's hard for you to feel it, and that if you do feel it it's also hard for me to show it. It's kind of like with emotions, there's a dual problem, it's that you kind of sense that you feel like you may not be feeling it like you should be - 
CLIENT: It's like I - 
COUNSELOR:  - and expressing it, too.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's like there's sort of happen after the ef... after the action, like someone can something to me that's really very hurtful and when they say it, it just bounces off and it won't be until later that I really feel like I... like that really hurt or somebody can say something that's making me very angry and I may know that it's going to make me (inaudible at 0:21:15.1) but I won't become really angry about it until after.
COUNSELOR: So it kind of sounds like, in some way, you kind of like, you feel like you're not really kind of open to emotional experience the way you, you think you should be.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like loving someone, it takes me a very long time to recognize that I really love someone or care about them and I suppose part of that's just a fear of it not being returned.
COUNSELOR: Fear of being rejected.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I, and I refuse to give unless I know that it's a secure thing. [0:22:02.3]
COUNSELOR: That's like... I mean I kind of sense is you were saying that that kind of disturbs that you are... like you may be that fearful.
CLIENT: Yeah - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - well I think if, yeah, I think that's just (inaudible at 0:22:13.6) live in fear.
COUNSELOR: What you do mean justifiable (ph)?
CLIENT: Well, I think to be worried about that is, is... makes sense to me because I just... I feel like if you're angry and you're angry while somebody's saying something to you, you ought to be able to tell them you're angry or express it or say something or do something. Or if you love someone and you recognize it, you ought to be able to express it and say it, do something about it.
COUNSELOR: Sure. I thought what you meant by justifiable, you meant that the fear of being rejected is justifiable. [0:22:54.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, well that is, too, but peop... you know like I also feel like... recognize that I- even to allow for a relationship with man or woman, whatever it is, you have to take risks about it. So there's a fear in taking the risk to do that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's kind of what I sensed, I mean there's, there's kind of commonality there, that take a risk... it's like taking risks and feeling my emotions, taking risks and trying to do things and kind of, I'll find out I can't do them, you know what you said about apathy and, it's kind of like you're kind of afraid of these things to kind of go and act or go and feel, express it for fear that you'll get, get hurt in the end and that it's kind of like in the end you'll be put down and you'll be and (ph) less worthy.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that may... that goes together and it... and the thing is like I can go out to people in a very superficial way, the clowning kind of thing and joking and, but when it comes to being close, someone else has to make the first move. [0:24:11.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and that's because it's hard for you to risk making the first move.
CLIENT: Yeah. One thing that occurs to me is that when I was in college, I was really a outgoing person and I thought I had a lot of friends, but I, when I came here I decided I wasn't going to be outgoing, I kind of wanted to be alone, like if I made friends, it just happened, it wasn't the kind of thing I was searching out or anything like that and as I thought back on my experiences at college, it seems that 99 percent of the friends, weren't really friends, it was a superficial thing and I had thought then that they weren't really that superficial and a very few people I leave feeling close to. [0:25:10.7]
COUNSELOR: That's kind of like you had many friends, but not many meaningful relationships.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And at that point, I don't think I knew what the difference was.
COUNSELOR: And now you kind of sense the difference, but still sense the difficulty for you and meaningfully related to someone.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I don't think I, it is, and I'm outgoing, I don't think I'm as much superficially friendly and all that kind of thing to people. But the same token I'm also, I'm still not reaching out and - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like in a way you feel like that wasn't a good way of being with people, but it's like you don't have the way you want yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [0:25:56.0]
COUNSELOR: And that's kind of like, I guess that's kind of involved with being able to feel loving towards someone that you said feel that, when your... when you're loved meaningfully with someone, you're, you're vulnerable.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes it's not even, like the whole concept of loving someone is sometimes very nebulous, like I just don't what that really means sometimes. I have some friends that I know I really like, when it comes to the guy that I love, you know Don, sometimes I, you know I know I really love him, but on the other hand sometimes I, I'm not just, not very sure that I really do, I'm not sure what it, what it means.
COUNSELOR: Is that kind of ass... I'm kind of not sure if you knew, like you don't know what love means kind of intellectually or you don't know if you can feel it. [0:27:03.0]
CLIENT: Yeah, feel.
COUNSELOR: It's like if you're capable of that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah - 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of scary to you, isn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's very hard, like I'm not sure when I r... when I really feel things or if I've just tried to take the words and be able to feel them, but I, I'm not convinced all the time that its...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like you really kind of feel like emotionally you may... you're deadened inside or keep yourself guarded.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I feel a lot of times that I'm just very cold and just very insensitive to myself.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're not open to what could be the most enriching source of experience for yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It kind of really upsets you. [0:28:02.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, well it does.
COUNSELOR: (Silence) Kind of what I sense when I said it really upset you, you kind of maybe it was a silly statement on my part, that that kind of bothered you.
CLIENT: Well, yeah - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk) I wh - 
CLIENT:  - I think I've said it upsets me you know, it's like that's the kind of thing that le... sort of to me it connects with, with not having any confidence in myself, and like I want to do something about that because it's - 
COUNSELOR: You s - 
CLIENT: It hurts me in just living not to be able to, not to be able to know whether I'm really feeling something or not.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well see I guess what brought... yeah, it's like it's not... like in living you may not be living.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. [0:28:55.6]
COUNSELOR: The most, but what I was, what I was thinking like when I said that it upsets you I kind of... you see you're saying... you're saying with some, you know what sound to me kind of like they're heavy things about yourself. But I guess it's kind of like I'm seeing what you're talking about in a way like that you're talking about them, but it's like, and you know, yes, you say you're upset but it's kind of hard for me to really sense that emotion really being alive in you. Do you understand what I'm talking about? As, even as you talked about it.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Does that, how does that hit you when, when you said...?
CLIENT: I don't know, I'm not sure I was even listening to what you said, I was just thinking that the kinds of things I've said to myself before and perhaps I'm just saying them as though they're... your just intellectualizing about them. Because I've said them before and it's, you know...
COUNSELOR: Kind of like going through them.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, yeah, it's really very upsetting. And I, just I can't, I don't know whether the expectancy is that I should cry or get upset or what, but it's like I, it's almost like that's something that's sort of hardened, too. [0:30:13.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, do you really kind of feel like you have hardened yourself?
CLIENT: In a lot of ways, I, like I think I'm strong person and I'm not necessarily, may not necessarily be very strong, but up... along with being strong is you don't... things don't bother you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but let me a... is being str - 
CLIENT: Can I have a cigarette from you?
COUNSELOR: Oh sure. Let me ask you, is being strong the same thing as being hard?
CLIENT: Well no, but I, but I'm - 
COUNSELOR: You said, because you're saying - 
CLIENT:  - not made that distinction necessarily - 
COUNSELOR:  - you're saying that you, you're strong, but then you're saying you've also hardened yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well there's a part of like, my conception of ha... was to be strong - 
COUNSELOR: You're hard.
CLIENT:  - you harden.
COUNSELOR: What do you think about that? [0:30:58.4]
CLIENT: Well, I suspect on one hand, I may not be as strong as I think I am, and on the other hand, they don't have to go together, but I may be somewhat hardened, I don't know. I don't know where the feelings are in me, some, sometimes they come out.
COUNSELOR: What makes them come out?
CLIENT: Well, I think one thing is that my relationship with Don, the fellow that I'm (inaudible at 0:31:38.2) long time, I- he's helped me to feel a lot of things I think because he's a very warm person and he's very patient.
COUNSELOR: He's not a hard person, I take it.
CLIENT: No, he's not hard at all.
COUNSELOR: Is he strong? [0:31:59.3]
CLIENT: I... different ways, sometimes yeah, sometimes no.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay, interesting.
CLIENT: I don't, I don't know, sometimes he is, it depends on what aspect about him you, that you...
COUNSELOR: Okay, (inaudible at 0:32:11.8).
CLIENT: I think when I get depressed I feel things, but mostly that's when I feel negative things. I've helped deal (inaudible 0:32:30.2) it with, with some friends when, but they're very feeling people and they're very warm and they just sort of - 
COUNSELOR: It [effuses tedium] (ph). 
CLIENT: Yeah, you know that kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: It's like they're kind of... when emotions do hit you, they're either... it's kind of like because their intensity is strong, like depression, or else kind of if they're good, it's kind of like, you depend on other people's kind of having, you're not despairing way. [0:32:57.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes very much that. Like one of my roommates who is perhaps the only (ph) person like that I'm going to school with, that I'm close to, it's very hard for her to be warm to people and it's very discouraging for me because it's very hard for me to reach out and I think it's a big barrier to our being very close friends. On the other hand, I have a very close friend who I lived with last year who is now in Massachusetts, but I really feel a lot of closeness to her and a very few other people, and they're the people that are also just effusively very warm and loving people that it's easy for them to share and - 
COUNSELOR: Right, it's kind of like they open the door and you, you can't open it yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. And because they open it, wow I can really feel that with them. [0:33:56.7]
COUNSELOR: But you can't be like them and open that for someone else, it just isn't that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think it's very much that way.
COUNSELOR: (Silence) It kind of is, you know when you looked at yourself and what you do with the feelings or how you don't have them, it's kind of like, you feel like you're kind of living kind of in a closed, like your closing also off something of yourself.
CLIENT: Well I don't know, I sort of resolved it that, that in one way is that I have these close friends and it's really not necessary for a person to have tremendous amounts of very close friends. So I'm not sure that that's sort of troublesome not to have some people here that I'm very, very close to, it's more that it's a reliance on them to bring it out of me, rather than my being able to just be that way on my own, on my own will. [0:35:07.1]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I, but I sense from what you're saying you really kind of want to be able to be that way (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I do. Yeah, I, maybe I don't want to be like them, but I would like to be able to understand my feelings and be able to express - 
COUNSELOR: And have them.
CLIENT:  - those feelings and have them.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because I kind of sense that like when you say this may not mean that much to you because it's kind of a theoretical statement, but like when you do have feelings, you feel a lot more alive and you do have much more sense of yourself because they a part of the kind of experience.
CLIENT: Yeah, I relate - 
COUNSELOR: And like - 
CLIENT:  - like an experiences with them that have been the best and they haven't always been joyful experiences, you know, sometimes they've been other kinds of things - 
COUNSELOR: You mean like having expressed being, feeling down with someone or - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - (inaudible at 0:35:58.1).
CLIENT: But it's good to be able to do that.
COUNSELOR: It makes you feel (inaudible)
CLIENT: Better. Good.
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk) Alive.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like a sense of you are someone.
CLIENT: Yeah. You... that occurs to me that when I was in s... in college it's like, there's people you sit around in a dorm and you talk to people and you go to some people to talk about things that are bothering you and problems you're having. It was very rarely that people ever came to me to share problems that they had and on the same token, if I ever shared any problems with people, it was on a very superficial level. It was something I had already... like if I worked something out with myself, then I can talk about it, with other people, but it's very hard to talk about something that's disturbing to me as it comes to me. [0:37:01.3]
COUNSELOR: Right, it's kind of like you have to have it all spaced, paced out and structured, but to kind of go and risk doing that with someone, you really shy away from that.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then, in in-initial kind of thing, but the same is true even now, but it was...
COUNSELOR: That's kind of like now you can see what you were doing and then you couldn't even see it, that was like a way of life almost (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like now you can see that you are meaningfully related to people (inaudible at 0:37:34.2) 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: and I guess that's part of what you mean, having a super-having superficial relationships.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's right. (Silence) I guess, a question that keeps coming in my mind is well, okay, even now how do I begin to deal with that or what, how do I begin to do something about it and I guess I'm very impatient about it. [0:37:58.9]
COUNSELOR: You mean like you want to kind of a task in a program or something like that or...
CLIENT: I don't know, I - 
COUNSELOR: You're kind of (crosstalk), yeah, you're kind of task oriented.
CLIENT: Yeah, I am. But I, I'm also not, I don't, I'm not unrealistic, I don't think, because I, and I think I recognize that's not necessarily a possibility, but, but I need some, like I need some leads on how to deal with that or what to do about it, I... and I don't, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I think you got... this kind of, I don't know if you... this kind of therapy done here isn't the kind of a place where we give you programs.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that. [0:38:48.9]
COUNSELOR: But do you... let me, let me say this to you, I mean you haven't told me that much, but I just hope that I would really have a hunch that, what's kind of basic towards bothering you. I mean it has to do with like, what you say is bothering you and we haven't talked about sex yet, but I'm sure it... which affects that too, but by your lack of self-confidence and not feeling good about yourself is very much part of this kind of thing of, like that you're not living richly; like you're not living kind of openly to what you can feel inside because like as you, yourself said, when you do feel like you can feel things, it makes you feel more like a person. And kind of like that almost the crux of what's important to you and kind of like how... why the way you're living your life isn't meaningful and you're not happy with yourself. And I'm sure it also has to do with whatever, although you haven't said it, about what the sexual things might be. But what do you do about that? Well, there isn't a program for that. But this kind of therapy... this place is kind of a place where you learn that you can... that feelings aren't such bad and hard things to experience. That you can have them and they're not hard to have, I mean - well they may be hard to have, but that you can learn the secret or, I... that's probably sounds (crosstalk) - [0:40:30.1]
CLIENT: See the thing is like intellectually I know that, and it's like I need to get to something about myself. Like I feel like I have to get to something, there's something about myself that, that is like sort of a barrier or a block doing that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're real... and you're real impatient to get through that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I am. (Silence) Yeah, I don't... I don't know what... I don't know where to go in talking. I don't know where to go at, revealing the kinds of things ab- that you're just giving me insight about myself. [0:40:30.1]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well you see, when I said that this was really your hour, I mean the thing that I would like you to try to focus on and talk about here are the things that really feel like they're most the feeling tones (inaudible at 0:41:30.9). Do you unders... I mean I - 
CLIENT: No, I'm not, I'm not sure I know what you mean.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's kind of like, the things that feel kind of most experientially loaded, like that they feel like they could either be, certainly the most, the things that kind of upset you and disturb you the most will be, can be (inaudible at 0:41:50.1) things that, for example, could be you feel best, too. But they're the things that kind of feel most relevant or meaningful to you because those are the things that the feelings are tied up with or the lack of feelings are tied up with. You know, and when I said before - and maybe you'll more how this kind of relates - when I said before, like you were saying heavy things about yourself and you th... like and I said well, it must upset and you kind of went, sure. It's kind of like, that... I don't know what you're supposed to be, if you're supposed to (inaudible at 0:42:26.6) that's, there's not expectancy, but like there are more feelings about all the things you're talking about. And, of course, like the first time you don't get into - 
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: That, that's why I say, I sense you're impatient, but you have to feel, you come to feel more comfortable in getting into those feelings, too. Do you see what I mean, really?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess part of it is that I feel like I've... I feel like I've said a lot of those to myself, to a few other people and like I said before, it's sort of almost to a point of just intellectualizing about it.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's the same lines. [0:43:03.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, and, and I... that's where it leaves me, I don't know - 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well one thing, you see what I really try to do and I really try to, as you talk... I mean I, what I try to do is really try to understand what you're saying as you understand it, not in a necessarily from a theory because I don't... we don't do that here, but you know the idea that like what I say to you can help you focus more on what your feeling is about that, to make the experience a more, let's say less intellectual. You understand what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Kind of more what's really there, what do you really feel there. Now it's like (inaudible) takes listening to me, to what I say to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. But that's, that... I see that as kind of a positive thing.
COUNSELOR: Something is disturbing you and - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know what it is, I suspect part of it is not knowing what kinds of things I want to say.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you want to know that (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: You know what, well no, not necessarily. It's like, last year about April, May something like that I'd been going with Don for, well I don't know it's going on four years and we'd been engaged for about five months last year and I broke the engagement around Easter time and I broke it because I thought it was a good thing that I just couldn't live with him, that just wasn't going to work. And after that a lot of pressures on school kinds of things and all of a sudden this just total depression hit me and it was just the most unbelievable thing. I'd never been so depressed, like I just sat and cried for hours, it was just very frightening and what I'd done was I went over to the mental health, the student thing, and they had just sort of a crisis intervention kind of thing which I don't know how necessarily helpful it was or not. And that, like because this year, okay, that was something really built up to a head and like my - 
COUNSELOR: It was very pressured - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - that you really had a lot of feelings and were strong ones.
CLIENT: Yeah. Now, and then like, what has brought me here is that like just an awareness of kinds of things that I'm not happy about myself and there's not a crisis. There's not necessarily one specific thing that's just terribly disturbing, it's just a number of things and a part is I don't know exactly how I need to talk about it or how I need to deal with it to even work through an understanding of it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like you don't even know what to do or how to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's a...I come with some expectancies of you sort of to help me go with those things. Maybe that's what I'm just impatient about.
COUNSELOR: Right. Because you don't understand those expectancies.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I don't know what - 
COUNSELOR: Like what are the rules in a way, I mean I'm using rules metaphorically. Or what's expected of you, maybe that's better.
CLIENT: I don't know what's expected of either you or I and I don't know what I'm...I don't have any expectancies except that I have some things that I really want to work out.
COUNSELOR: You les-well it's like you don't have expectancies about what to do, you have expectancies of what you'd like to happen.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know what I mean? Like the things that you want to feel good about (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let me...let me try this again maybe I can say it better. Like what do you do, what do I do, and what I do or what I want you to do, what's the most... the most important stuff is to try to really talk about the things that do most concern you. And when I said kind of... you have the most feelings about. And what I'll try to do is really try to understand what your feelings are, try to focus on and evoke (ph) more on you because I mean I, basically I mean I do think that probably your problem and I guess the whole viewpoint in this kind of place, theoretically is that people's problems are really often that they're not feeling as fully what they can, but if you can f-you feel... if you can learn how to have your feelings more, that's what I kind of (inaudible) kind of show that like, I mean you do feel differently about yourself. You live a very different life and you know what that means in terms of what to do, okay, you... well you're not actively suffering, you're not in a crisis opening (ph) you're not coming in here laden with feelings, but that there are things that really upset you about yourself and we try to get into those feelings, your upsetness about yourself.
CLIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Does that, does that help you at all? I mean I know it doesn't, I can't give you a map, do you understand what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's a very general thing I...
CLIENT: I...yeah, I do, I guess perhaps one of the things that I...I think of in terms (ph) that is, is the probability of working as a social worker with other people and I, and I am thinking about what I'm doing. I have a part-time job in Albany and I'm working with a group of girls, like there's... they're kids that, that I guess sort of hippies of the suburbs, although they're not really at all. They're really very conforming to what goes on, but they're into some kinds of... some went into drugs and rejecting their family kind of thing. Now my intention to work with this group was around, just a better understanding of themselves and acceptance of where they're at and perhaps of doing something about where they're at to make it better. And I've kind of bad feelings about it because it seems to me we've go along and gotten very... not gotten very far at all and one of the things that I think of as, wow I've really sort of identified with them as being teenagers and maybe having difficulty being an adult and wanting to be a teenager and having fun, being able to relate and identify as a teenager. And it was one of the kinds of things that's kept us from doing this, sort of - 
COUNSELOR: Getting somewhere.
CLIENT:  - yeah.
COUNSELOR: Now what, I'm trying to see the connection - 
CLIENT: Can I have another cigarette, please?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
CLIENT: Do you mind?
COUNSELOR: No, no, no, no, no. But I'm trying to see the connection between that and you in here, somehow that worries you and I'm trying to - 
CLIENT: Well - 
COUNSELOR:  - (crosstalk) worries - 
CLIENT:  - as a...it's related in the sense that I... like I'm not bringing away any feelings of competence about that.
COUNSELOR: And like - 
CLIENT: And that there's breakdown in... well hell, like here I am with a group of teenagers, I've worked with teenagers before a... before having been in any kind of a graduate program (inaudible) and feeling that, like you really can't be that effective about working with kids unless you are an adult.
COUNSELOR: Are you worried about me being an adult? Is that your - 
CLIENT: Oh, no, that isn't what I was... no, it was I'm relating to that more as like as it not working out as nothing... as I'm not seeing any progress in that group.
COUNSELOR: Will that happen here, too?
CLIENT: No. No.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
CLIENT: It has nothing to do with you.
COUNSELOR: Oh, oh.
CLIENT: I'm just talking about something that's - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
CLIENT:  - relates to not having confidence in myself.
COUNSELOR: I see, I see, because I had sensed there was an implicit connection between what you were talking about here.
CLIENT: No, I went off into something else.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I didn't realize that there was a period. Know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yes, I put a period on that. No, I didn't...I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you mean like that's just kind of... and that's really another place where you see yourself, "I'm not getting somewhere."
CLIENT: It's a kind of the thing... okay, that's an incidence of where like, am I really capable of, excuse me, doing anything.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Being effective.
CLIENT: Yeah. And not finding feelings of competence about it. Now, I'm also working with an individual who is a... a real lot of problems and there's a question of whether I'm experienced enough to be able to deal with that situation and that's very frightening. That thing is very frightening.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, is it kind of like a when you look to see what you have to do and look inside yourself and sense like your own... what you sense to be your own lack and feelings of incompetence, it really scares you?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I feel like in working with this girl that I'm not being sensitive at the point where it's needed and responding to it and - 
COUNSELOR: You're not (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT:  - I'm not being quick enough to - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're not being how you're needed to be.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, and that raises questions about just responding in any others kind of a situation.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Can you - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - do that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it's almost not even just the probably let it... can I respond in other situations but what does that mean about me as a person?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Am I an unresponsive person? Like what you said, people thought you were a cold person. Am I a cold person?
CLIENT: Yeah, right. And, well and part of it...I can sort of rationalize it sometimes by saying, "well you need some experience working before you can be responsive - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - every time it, the opportunity necessitates. But I still, that feels somehow - 
COUNSELOR: It doesn't (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT:  - it's a part of being an impatient, like - 
COUNSELOR: Right.
CLIENT:  - I want to be good at it now, I don't want to be good at it in ten years.
COUNSELOR: Right. You're dissatisfied with the way you are now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You want changes and you want them quick.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I... on one hand I recognize that's somewhat unrealistic, that those kinds of things happen as you grow sort of. It's just that I think some of them are improper where I'm at now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like are you growing? Are you as grown as you should be?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, I feel like I have grown a lot. I... well let me see, I feel like the people that I'm close to, I feel like I've grown in being able to develop that kind of a close relationship that I don't think I've ever had before with these people. So I feel like that's a growth. And it's still some dissatisfaction with myself though.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like you can see - 
CLIENT: I just feel - 
COUNSELOR:  - you can see how you've changed, but it's... you're just not the person you want (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: We do have to stop. I have another - 
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible). Now look - 
END TRANSCRIPT
