TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
CLIENT 002 SESSION 3 TAPE 105
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Five, two, track A, part one; 50426002 session three, 50426-002 session three. [No more comments] (ph) today. 


PATIENT: I got a chance to talk to my husband today about going away for a little bit. And he feels like he thinks it's going to be good. I mean here it gives me hope. And I said, "Well let's just go out for dinner alone without the children, and he said he would go if I wanted to go. He didn't want to be alone with me. Our marriage is just such a joke. 


It's really pathetic. I really don't know what to do if he's not going to try. [2:15] 


COUNSELOR: You can't do it by yourself.


PATIENT: No, there's no chance now. He didn't even, you know, even suggesting these things because he's going into it with the attitude, "We'll it's not going to work, so why waste the time, the energy, and the money." With our thing with him, it's the money. 


COUNSELOR: And money is more important than you are.


PATIENT: Yes. And I try and - I even know like that he's never had any money, and it's hard for him to spend it on trivial things.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But it still doesn't help. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You can try to make allowances, but it cut awful deeply.


PATIENT: Well I guess I find it hard to believe that 30 dollars is going to make that - 30 dollars is not going to make that much difference. 


COUNSELOR: So it seems to you that it's not, or your difficulty thinking that it's only the money.


PATIENT: He probably is using that as an excuse. Well no because, I mean, he told me he didn't want to be alone with me. We didn't have anything to say. He said that he would get a divorce if he met somebody that he really was crazy about. And he said, "Well, the chances aren't very good. I can sit around at home, so I won't meet anybody." [4:23]


COUNSELOR: Like he's sort of just sitting around.


PATIENT: And that's all I'm doing.


COUNSELOR: Waiting. 


PATIENT: I mean I don't want to go out looking for anybody. 


COUNSELOR: How funny (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. So I really don't know what to do. I think I'd like to - I think I'm going to get a job. I mean do something with my life that he'll - and I asked him today if he was jealous with my relationships with girlfriends. 


And he said, "No." And then he told me to take a vacation with a girlfriend because I'd have more fun. 


COUNSELOR: I don't know what you're telling me here. 


PATIENT: Well I think he actually, he really is jealous. 


COUNSELOR: Oh, I'm sick of her vindictively, or like ... 


PATIENT: Well, then I said, "Well, why don't we go away for a weekend without the children?" And he said it wouldn't change anything if we were by ourselves. There would never be less to talk about because the children wouldn't be there to kind of carry on the conversation. [6:19]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like he'd be board.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, he would be I'm sure. 


COUNSELOR: You mean there aren't - he didn't just, that isn't just smart talk, he really ...


PATIENT: Yeah, he would be. I mean if he's not going to talk to me, what's he going to do?


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: He'd go to a cabin without TV, he'd be stoked (ph). Why he got along with books; he could always hide in them. But he just is not capable of thinking about me. 


COUNSELOR: Sound like he just sort of almost constitutionally selfish.


PATIENT: Well he is selfish, and he admits it. But I feel like if you're selfish and you admit it then maybe you can try and do it differently. But he keeps saying that you cannot change your behavior by conscious effort.


And I just can't swallow that. I just can't believe that if he can think about it, occasionally he could be affectionate and warm. Or at least talk to me like instead of - he'll say something, and I'll understand it and then he'll tell me, you know, he'll try and make me understand it for about five minutes. And he acts like I haven't got the ...


COUNSELOR: Intelligence to grasp it. 


PATIENT: Grasp things that are very elementary.


COUNSELOR: Operable.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: If only he'd acted as if you have the intelligence of a Libra. 


PATIENT: (Laughter), yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Because you are as much a [student of knowledge] (ph). Think about it. Kind of sounds like it really hurts your feelings. [8:19]


PATIENT: It does. And it feels like, I mean, he thinks more of those girls than he does of me. 


COUNSELOR: He really cares for them, and he's affectionate with them. 


PATIENT: He's affectionate. He's warm to the girls. 


COUNSELOR: And he's indifferent and cold toward you.


PATIENT: Yes. And he admits it too. 


COUNSELOR: You can't even hit him over the head with it because he's so serious.


PATIENT: No, he couldn't handle that.


COUNSELOR: That's how I am, and I can't change. 


PATIENT: That's why he doesn't want to change; I don't think for my benefit. If it would benefit him, it would; then he would. And I said, "Well when are you going to therapy?" 


And he said I don't even know if he was going to go because he didn't think it was going to help. I would like to send him somewhere. 


COUNSELOR: You mean you'd really like to let him have it.


PATIENT: Yeah, I really would. Maybe I should go off by myself. I mean what would I do? I mean now would really be very boring if you don't have someone to share it with. [10:20]


And I find that I am the one depressed when he is. When he's depressed, he kind of brings me down. And it seems like he's been depressed for such a long time now, since we got here; he's frugal.


COUNSELOR: Since you've gotten here this pool has been a black cloud over both your heads.


PATIENT: Yeah, and I don't - I mean it wasn't that I went any place else; it wasn't so open I guess, maybe it was, it's an eating area so it's a little quieter, and he wasn't so cruel. 


COUNSELOR: He's like a different person then with a kind of brutality that you hadn't known.


PATIENT: Yes, he is. It really aggravates me that I was so young and stupid when I married him. I mean you could look at his background and see that what he was going to be like. If he had known, I mean if I didn't know anything. 


COUNSELOR: If you hadn't been so wide eyed and naive, you would have been really all electric (ph).


PATIENT: Right, and eager to get married I guess. I was wondering did they have the studies of the seventh year itch you hear about. This, is our seventh year. I could sit back and hope. [12:39]


COUNSELOR: Maybe it'll pass like its Poison Ivy. 


PATIENT: Yeah, but I have my doubts about that. So I just don't know what's the use if he's not going to change. Watch the plant (ph). 


COUNSELOR: You know what; you were also saying what's the use of doing anything because it's not going to matter.


PATIENT: Nope.


COUNSELOR: He's like a big heavy rock that can't be budged no matter what; bang my fists against it, put my arm around it; can't get it to move. 


PATIENT: I just, the more I talk about it, the worse it gets it seems like opening a wound or something. 


COUNSELOR: When you talk about it, you really experience how terrible it is.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: It's crushing.


PATIENT: We thought we really, we're just really trapped. I mean if he's not going to do anything. We can't afford to do - we can't afford to get a divorce if we should decide that's the best because we just couldn't live on one path separately. We had to do it together. [14:39]


COUNSELOR: So it's impractical for you to get a divorce.


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I don't really want one. I don't think what else I can see that he's not ever going to change. But I'm afraid I might be 50 and find out that I wasted my entire life on him, or that he's wasted his whole life on me. At least now I have to (inaudible at 15:10). 


And if you want your children to be badder than you are, they can't possible be living with us two.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. You can't look forward to a divorce, and you don't even want a divorce because it seems like you may need to be hanging on a change. And you're - you hate to wake up someday to know and find out that nothing has changed. 


And it's a horrible situation for you, for him, and for the children [as far at that all says] (ph)


PATIENT: Yes. I could be happy if he'd just treat me like he would a stranger, I'm thinking. Not happy, not ecstatic, but just kindly or decently. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. If you're saying if he were to be really courteous to me that one would be toward any human being ...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Than it's like he is cruel. He's the way he wouldn't be to somebody else. [17:12]


PATIENT: No he would never be like that; I'm sure, to anybody else. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I mean, obviously, it's not too cruel enough. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: There's just really nothing to say about - I mean, you didn't really give me any hope at all. That's the way it is, and you can - I can live with him and wait till he finds somebody else or, or what? And go and live my parents? 


COUNSELOR: Do you want me to?


PATIENT: No. I'm just sitting here very upset. I'm sorry.


COUNSELOR: That's what I'm hearing (ph).


PATIENT: That would be tough. 


COUNSELOR: Some choice.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: To live in a loveless house [with you; old you] (ph). 


PATIENT: Well my father and I could not get along. 


COUNSELOR: Lived in a loveless, cold man. 


PATIENT: And that's my choice. [19:16]


COUNSELOR: You don't really have a choice.


PATIENT: No I don't. People don't feel like kidding themselves. I just don't want to, but there's nothing else I can do about it I guess.


COUNSELOR: The only thing left to you is vocal (ph) self-delusion; try to tell things are all right, maybe you'll believe it.


PATIENT: And just accept that they aren't and that's all that you can do about it. It'd sure be great, I think, to live in the past. If you could just go back to where you were, happy. That would make very happy. I just got to do something though. I'm just not going to sit at home while life is passing me by. [22:01]


COUNSELOR: You're not just going to sit there and lie passive desperate to do something. 


PATIENT: People say the money isn't there, you know, like it's just nothing. If you don't have any, there's no problem. But it is because even my mark of escapes are all around money. If I could go to school - I can't go to school because we can't afford the tuition.


I can't get a job because I'd have to make money to pay the babysitter. I'm not that confident that I could get a good job or a decent job even. I don't want to be away from the girls all day long. It just seems to me that we go in circles but nothing is ever settled. 


I know that we have the ambition like to get up and work from - I had a friend who worked from ten in the evening till six in the morning, so she wouldn't have to be away from her children. 


I couldn't do that. I be played (ph) out. I wouldn't even, you know, they work from six until noon, and I just, I'm not willing to make that sacrifice. [24:01]


COUNSELOR: You're not willing to sacrifice your sleep for the children - I guess, I'm not sure if it's a sacrifice. 


PATIENT: No, I just wouldn't go to work if I had to give up one or the other because their both very important to me. 


COUNSELOR: I see. I'm sorry; you said you'd give up one or the other. What are the two things?


PATIENT: Yeah, the children or sleep.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I wouldn't give up either of them because those are mine (chuckle).


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So there's more. So the children matter to you. 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: [In any event] (ph). 


PATIENT: Well, and as I said we're away from them sometimes. I mean, occasionally we've gone for a weekend without the children. And I'd think, oh good, I'm going to get to sleep in. I'm not going to have to get up and scurry around preparing anything. 


And we wake up at eight in the morning. My husband wakes me up and says, "Well let's get going, we can't be away from the kids for too long." So we're there one night, and that's not my idea even getting away from them. 


COUNSELOR: Or even when you're away from them, he doesn't let you get away from them. 


PATIENT: No, he'll have to hurry up and get back to them. We came to Chicago and left the girls with friends. We left a Saturday morning, and we called them Saturday night. I mean that really, that really - it hurts me, but I think that more then mad that he'd much rather like watch me or just calls me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. He cares for those kids. [26:08] 


PATIENT: That's right. 


COUNSELOR: He hurts you greatly that he cares so much for them and so little for you. 


PATIENT: Yes. He's a much better father than he is a husband, I'll say that for him. No recommendation even really. But our friends are always complaining that their husbands who won't pay any attention to the kids, and I'd like to have just a little of that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I mean me hurt - I'm supposed to play the mother, but he won't let me be the mother because I never make the right decisions when it comes to his girls.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So he's the mother and father.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And not husband and lover. That must really make you jealous to watch him with them.


PATIENT: I never thought it really did. But if I was at his convenience too then he is the father. I mean if I need to do these things when I come here, he can't come home and watch the children. 

When he's tired of working and studying, then he'll come home. But he'll be at work from, you know, for an hour or so and that's long enough for him. And he can be patient and etcetera because he hasn't been around them all day. 


And he says, "Where your - you make a much better than I do because I can't stand it all day long." And like if they want to tell him something, it really is at his convenience. And if I'm talking, then he'll interrupt me to listen to the girls. But I don't interrupt him, or they don't interrupt him if he has something he wants to say. [28:39]


COUNSELOR: He just ordered them out as it serves him


PATIENT: Like he's being crazy (ph).


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: He shouldn't have stirred up this hornet's net. I thought he was a good fellow. I didn't think he had any faults. It's probably making him a little uneasy.


COUNSELOR: What?


PATIENT: That I beginning to think a little. 


COUNSELOR: He has sweet (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah, he did. I would always, would just think that everything - I mean, almost that every thing he said was right. And that he never made any mistakes; but he does.


COUNSELOR: You really put him on a pedestal. 


PATIENT: Yeah, and now I've found out that he's human. I mean I didn't really, like he - he's a little; I didn't think that he was a God. I still thought that he could do something's better, but it was an argument between him and someone else. I always thought he was right. 


COUNSELOR: The adoring wife.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Easily.


PATIENT: The stupid wife.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 30:10). 


PATIENT: And now I'm beginning to question that. 


COUNSELOR: Now it looks like he gets to be a player. 


PATIENT: Well I still do quote him a lot, which that - and when I thought, you know, when he stopped and he looked at me and stuff and he gets there he said, "Big fish" (ph). And it really is kind of obnoxious even to me, and I feel sorry for whoever's listening to me. I mean I'm sure their really sick and tired of hearing of what they hear.


COUNSELOR: You didn't write - here it is, this article.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And you know it has to be bad when you started getting sick of it.


PATIENT: (Laughter) sick of hearing me saying that. It says nothing of the four people that have to listen to me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: I don't know. It struck me wrong so many times; I just take them for going with the easy lies. I don't even think about it. I just say, "Yes, sir" and go on my merry way. 


COUNSELOR: You mean he's been right so many times that you just assume he's right now. [32:10]


PATIENT: Yeah. Well like I always say something, and I don't really think about it; the pro and the cons. And he does; he does to a degree come to the conclusion. And when you're just kind of speak off the top of your head, you're wrong a lot of times.


COUNSELOR: All right, it sounds like you compare the two of you or contrast the two of you. And you see him as kind of a coldly, deliberate, analytical intelligent that we he says something, you're caught up in cold, deliberate analysis. 


You're, and you kind of see you, I guess, as, oh, sort of spontaneous and impulsive and consequently you kind of let things out before they're thought through. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: So then you'll be shot down by someone like him.


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean he thinks that's the type of person that I can stand to be around. We'll go to a party and every, you know, like you're not supposed to be lazy at a party. I mean I always thought; which one fellow I was talking too, it's just like everything I said, he threw it up on a bulletin board and diagramed my sentence and characters. 


Yeah. He must be a real lot of fun around the house. You can't say good morning without him saying, "Wow."


COUNSELOR: "Well, what does she mean by that?"


PATIENT: It's just a really a good morning, and he checked the weather. So that's kind of what Jim is, but not to that extent. Well, he questions everything I say. And if I don't, if I don't have the periodicals to back me up, and I don't ...


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: I just really kind of trying to carry on a little conversation. [34:14]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Which is sorely needed in our house. So he doesn't really want to talk about trivial things. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I don't know that much for a lady; columns of the world.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it also sounded like what you do know or what you didn't think, it feels like you have to footnote it all.


PATIENT: Yeah. Well that's not really worth for him listening to. I'll prepare a paper or something before I make any comments.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, well try and take your sources.


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter). At least it won't be hearsay, you know, where you got it or you don't talk to anyone.


COUNSELOR: Boy you really just shape up when you talk to him.


PATIENT: Yeah. Well he always, he buries himself beneath the paper. He's always got, you know, I kind of - maybe I'm jealous of his books. He's always got one in his hand. He's just like the absent minded professor. 


He doesn't know what he'd be if he wasn't reading something great till the girls try to grab the table, and they couldn't have that any longer.


COUNSELOR: It's all right for him.


PATIENT: Their - well now I'm saying I not having the whole family reading the paper (laughter). I mean really that's kind of silly when two year old asks for a piece of paper to read. She wants to be like daddy. 


I checked very - I should learn to keep my mouth shut I guess. But I think as I did that nobody in the family would talk except the girls. I mean if I didn't talk to him, he wouldn't bother talking to me. [36:23]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. So the girls will keep everything going?


PATIENT: Yeah. So are those like the facts or conclusions I'm supposed to come to. Am I supposed to come to conclusion like he doesn't say anything; you don't feel anything?


COUNSELOR: Be a stoic or time to time going through each day.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: [If I didn't do for you] (ph) because I'm afraid that you're on the verge of leaving. 


PATIENT: Well I still try. I mean I stay on different topics of conversation. It doesn't really matter if I scheme with him, it's not going to change anybody's life what I say. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It sure isn't going to change his life. 


PATIENT: No. But it's not that damn boring. 


COUNSELOR: Not as boring as he treats it. 


PATIENT: Yeah. So well he can't only be interested in anything I'm interested in. I mean like even reading a novel that isn't in his field. [38:16]


COUNSELOR: He is not viscous (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah, he's not a very - I mean he can't relax. I'll think about something. I've even believed we we're trying so that I could navigate (ph) the computer. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. That's his whole life and interest; that and the girls. 


PATIENT: Well raquetball and carrots (laughter). When he does something, he does it very thoroughly, except being mad. I mean he's going to play raquetball, he takes gold lessons, and he practices. 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're saying that he's really a very zealous and guy whose devoted to everything that he does except married to me.


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: Maybe he just sort of takes advantage and kicks around and shoots you down, which he does zealously. 


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter). Yeah, he does get zealous, even then (laughter). I always thought I'd be content to be a housewife and mother. But it looks like he tries to keep pushing me out of the house. I'm not getting any satisfaction there; I'm going to have to go elsewhere. It might be better if we didn't talk then I wouldn't find out what I had in store for me. [41:03]


COUNSELOR: Tell me what you mean.


PATIENT: I mean that he really isn't going to try and improve our marriage for anything. He said that he didn't think that therapy was going to help us; just relax and what's the use. I mean he doesn't really care that I might improve my own self-esteem or anything. It's what it's going to do for him. God he is selfish; I'm just wrapping onto it.


COUNSELOR: You sound like you part realizes how selfish until (cross like).


PATIENT: I mean really until I said it. I mean he always told me I was selfish. Here I believed everything (laughter) (inaudible at 42:03). I mean I'm sure we are a lot, but I don't think I quite match him. And he said he's not selfish when in came to the girls, which is true. 


COUNSELOR: I'm hearing you say the issue. He may or may not be. And you're saying right out he isn't, but that's not the issue.


PATIENT: Well so what? I mean ...


COUNSELOR: Well what does that do mean that he so (crosstalk).


PATIENT: Well many parents aren't with it. I mean I'm not even with my kids. You just aren't because they're part of you. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So maybe you are selfish even because that is a part of you (laughter). I don't know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: That's for another time. It's a big deal. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: You're selfish in every other part. You do things for people because they might give it back for you. You're selfish and you're stingy, gee. He's really lucky I stuck with him. If I had an assumption, I'd would have probably been out long ago.


COUNSELOR: But you don't have an assumption.


PATIENT: No, I don't have an assumption. Well this, is kind of a frightening world. I mean what do you do when you have two children to support? I mean their not really old enough to have a babysitter. [44:00]


I don't know. I think it's different like when you go out to have fun, it's OK to have a babysitter. But boy when you got out everyday and everyday. I mean I even feel guilty leaving them with a babysitter coming here two hours a week and that's not very much. 


COUNSELOR: You just can't reconcile yourself to leaving them alone at all.


PATIENT: No. Well I've never gotten used to it, I mean. I think it's probably how he would - how Jim would feel too. If I really did go and get a job, whenever we have some sitter, it wouldn't be good enough for his girls. Then he would have to come home and oversee. And that's making me feel like a rat. 


I mean it used to irritate me last year. I like to play raquetball too, but I couldn't. But it's not just I wanted to because I had to baby-sit. But he couldn't baby-sit. Well he works all the time, and he only had he's weekends to raquetball; not everyday. I'm expecting to gives those days off without being really truthful. I found that irritating


Well if I do get a job, I'm just going to have to go into well I'm just going to [run before I walk] (ph). He doesn't do that much for me. I don't know why I feel like I have to. Everything I have to do has to be accounted for by the big cheese in our house. 


COUNSELOR: So Veronica (ph) you're saying despite the fact that he doesn't do a damn thing for you, that you really do feel like how to be (inaudible at 46:24). 


PATIENT: Yeah, I really do. I mean it's not a news wall; give and take, it really isn't. I mean I'm not that giving either, but I do much more than he does if you want to weigh it. But, I mean, it seems like everything he does is so much more important than what I want to do. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: If a person had no conscience, they could just have a real good time playing raquetball and playing games and leave the children with whoever would watch them. But his daddy doesn't want me to work. I don't even really care what he wants. I'm getting sick of it. 


There are some things that I need, and one of them is a vacation with a (inaudible at 47:51). I need to get away regularly during the day like at a job knowing full well that I won't do either.


PATIENT: So you can sit here and tell me that, but for all the practical consequences you're telling me that he's going to have, you mine as well not be saying those things.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: You're not going to get a job. You're not going to get a vacation. That you couldn't get anything or do anything.


PATIENT: I don't think that. I mean when you just spit that out without thinking about it like I do (laughter).


COUNSELOR: I thought you're thinking it's a heck of a lot easier in here.


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter). 


COUNSELOR: It's (crosstalk).


PATIENT: Well I mean now after I said it, right now. I think I'll go home and think about it because, I don't know, it's been awful long time since I've worked whether I would be able to do it again. Because I mean anytime where we don't [ground right] (ph), and you have to still do the wash and the ironing, cooking, house cleaning, even (inaudible at 49:23). 


I mean I never worked with children, so you'd have to be a mother when you get home from work because you haven't been all day. 


COUNSELOR: Those are the - that doesn't sound like get is the, you must feel like you have to make it up to.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: For having been gone all day; super mother.


PATIENT: Yeah, so.


COUNSELOR: So that sure makes goal now to work and inviting me there (laughter).


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter). One where everybody is, and if it's out there, work when you're pregnant (ph).


COUNSELOR: What the hell. All you have to do is do everything you did before only better. 


PATIENT: Right. I don't even do it well when I'm at home, so. 


COUNSELOR: How could you possibly ...


PATIENT: How could I possibly do it any better? I don't know. But I didn't think the more you do the more you have to do. I mean I really don't do a thing when - I could go out and get a job as a light housekeeper. It's about all I do here is light housekeeping and babysitting. Like college kids do that when their bored and blue. Maybe then I wouldn't want to try it. 


COUNSELOR: You mean you couldn't even get a job as a light housekeeper.


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter). 


COUNSELOR: So you're washed up at ...


PATIENT: Twenty-six.


COUNSELOR: Twenty-six.


PATIENT: I'm over-the-hill.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: Well, and another thing is that I would hate to go and get a job and then not be able to do it because I'd have to clean. It would be very embarrassing for me. 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like it might not be risk involved about having a child at home.


PATIENT: Yeah it really would be because my father always said he doesn't want any quitters, but he always let me quit instead of saying you really should finish what you're starting.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like what he's doing is he sort of laid down a law, and then encouraged you to break it. [52:06]


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And it makes you feel guilty and cruddy, I guess. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean he wasn't an - he occasionally would come in and [scrub some for laughs to see and not to see] (ph) where other parents said, "No you cannot take this job because you cannot do it, and I need you at home." That's what I think, but they always let me do and starting the thing even when everybody knew that I couldn't do it; He knew that I wasn't going to finish it. 


COUNSELOR: They didn't look after for you then.


PATIENT: That was their philosophy; I guess I might of have been chosen.


COUNSELOR: Well you're taking notes for yourself. 


PATIENT: Yeah, but I picture to my father with the fact that it was embarrassing like he didn't want his daughter to be the one that quit when everybody else was going on. I mean really I had clarinet lessons for five years, and I never practiced at home. Nobody ever, I mean I didn't want to take them. I wanted to take lessons because they said, "You want to take lessons, don't you?" 


And I thought well what the heck. I might as well, and I never practiced. And everyday or every time I would go for my lesson, it would just be torture. I can remember vividly about this poor man that was teaching me. Oh God, here she comes again (laughter)? [54:01]


He kept it - I mean that's my whole childhood. People kept letting me go when I hadn't accomplished, you know, they'd let me go off the steps, and I hadn't done the third step yet with that really beginning in grade school. I mean my teacher gave me the answer book when I walked in; pick her up or she'll fail.


Now if I hadn't had as much pressure at home, you know, if they wanted me to achieve, they wanted me to be very bright, and so to accommodate my parents, I didn't learn anything; I got good grades. And that's what they wanted. They really didn't care. And I don't think if they would even now that I didn't learn anything; that I didn't know Math at all. I mean that's got to do some changing unless you've been gone or recently than I have.


COUNSELOR: Unless you get away with murder. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I want to blame my teachers. They must have been just plain lazy though. They looked at my paper and seen that I didn't know anything (chuckle). 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but you know where they did see (crosstalk).


PATIENT: Well I don't want my kids to learn like that, that's for sure.


COUNSELOR: It also sounds like you have some feelings for men.


PATIENT: Yeah. I really do. I'd like to kick them all right square in the behind. Well I'm not even mad at my parents because they had social pressures too. 


COUNSELOR: You can understand.


PATIENT: Well yeah, like they didn't want their kids to be the real dummies in the neighborhood (laughter). But it's not - my father, it's not that he likes to brag on his kids if their not there. I mean he'd never say anything nice about us in front of us. But I guess it's the teachers that really bother me. I mean why get a kid an answer book. I can't - I mean, of course, I could have not cheated, but it certainly was my chance here.


And everything else I've done was very easy. My clarinet lessons; [I had beef cattle] (ph); I was in girl scouts. And, I mean, all I had to do was pick them out. I never had do any work. The boys always did the work, and then I went to the fair and got the purple ribbons. [56:24]


COUNSELOR: Well I'm hearing what you're saying; it sounds like you see yourself missing something.


PATIENT: I did. 


COUNSELOR: Right now. Like there's some thing in you that isn't - there's something that should be in you that isn't in you because they treated you like a princess almost or something.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know whether they didn't know, or they didn't care. I mean I would just rather know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but what I was wondering is, and not having a clear pinpoint to your life, what's missing in you?


PATIENT: Now I'm a quitter. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, OK. 


PATIENT: But I mean how do you get that now when you're - I have no foundation for it? 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you have a secret.


PATIENT: I don't know any, no; unless I do something really hard and stick with it until I prove myself; happy or not. 


COUNSELOR: You should be [happy at least] (ph).


PATIENT: I'm going to go outside and see how hot it is because I didn't have a jacket on (laughter).


COUNSELOR: You want sit in here for a while; you got a parka on.


PATIENT: It's nice though. I like it. [58:03]


END TRANSCRIPT
