*TEXT-PV010023  Friday 25 October 1968       2851 2631   31  189
______________________________________________________________________________
(Silence)
ANALYST:  I've noticed that most of the times here you start out where you wait a little while before you say anything at the beginning.
PATIENT:  I think I used to do it because I felt too nervous to start right away.  And now I think I do it because I am sort of collecting my thoughts and editing them and so forth.  (3-minute silence) I think the thing that makes me start talking some days when I do is simply the feeling that I'm wasting time if I don't and I get sort of panicky.  Then I have to find something I feel I can talk about.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Well, today for example while you uh, have been quiet, have thoughts occurred to you that didn't want to say for one reason or another?
PATIENT:  Well, they all just seem so, I don't know, fleeting and unimportant —
ANALYST: Ah.
PATIENT:  — Or, or often times I'll think of some little thing I was getting or perhaps it's not little, but (coughs) something I might have been getting to the previous time, and then I'll think well I just don't feel like talking about it today or there's nothing more I can see I want to say about it.  Or else something will occur to me that happened that day, today, and, or any day and I don't know, it's just so—, sort of like I'm thinking that that happened and then I pass it on.  (Pause)
I suppose one thing that has come and gone just while I've been here and has been on my mind all week and I've talked about it before, the feeling of having had just an awful week at school and today was just another hectic day, more so than others and I didn't feel that great and I just somehow couldn't relate with the children or handle things the way I wanted to handle them.  And I was just thinking of the times I feel the best, I think are the times when the plans I've made for the day have happened the way I planned it.  And the times that I don't feel good are the times, not, this isn't all but one thing that makes me feel somewhat uneasy or unhappy about a day is because I didn't accomplish what I planned even if I accomplished some other things.  And I know this is one of the things that makes the day so hectic sometimes when I change what I'm doing and then I still feel I have to keep in everything that I had already planned.  (Pause) It's almost like I give it more strength or power or meaning than my thoughts at the moment, because I'll think well I planned it and I had a good reason then, so it must be a good reason, and it's important because I planned it ahead, therefore I should do it.  (Silence)
And perhaps another thing that was on my mind that I was kind of avoiding thinking about was thinking again of I'm feeling funny about the fact that I'm still saying all these very personal things to you and yet there's no kind of a growing relationship and I suppose that still bothers me very much, that in effect I'm saying all this to a stranger.  And this just occurred to me, maybe it's been behind it all before, but the fact that my telling all that I am to you and not, my not receiving any information from you about you makes me feel very much, makes me feel very much at the disadvantage or on, in the weaker position in any case.
ANALYST: Almost as though you must feel I have something to use against you and you don't.
PATIENT:  Or just if you're going to think horrible things about me for knowing all I can't return it by thinking horrible things about you.
ANALYST: Ah, and so you, you assume I think horrible things about you.
PATIENT:  I guess I do, when I say things I think are horrible, I assume anybody else would think they're horrible too.  (Silence)
And I, there's something else that I'm realizing now really, probably bothers me every time and I think maybe I haven't wanted to say it because I, I'm afraid by saying it then, I'll be even more awkward about it or feel more funny about it.  But when I take my coat off in here, I feel almost as if I'm undressing.  In a very personal way.  I mean I'm obviously undressing somewhat, but — (pause) and I know occasionally I thought well, then I'll take my coat off before I come in but then, I've never done it and I don't know why I've never done it.  It's almost like that would be undressing out there too.  And which is worse.  (Silence)
In fact I think I have thought about it more than I realized because (coughs) I know that I've thought about what I'd do in the winter when I wear, I usually wear boots and leave my shoes at school.  And I was well, I know I thought I'd feel funny lying here with boots on and then I didn't feel I could sit here and take them off.  (Pause) And when I come in I want to lie down as soon as possible because then somehow we're in the proper positions.  And I suppose it's the same when it's ti—, when the time is over, I want to get up and leave as soon as possible.  (Silence)
ANALYST: You know, I have the idea that, from the, the way your thoughts have gone, perhaps sometimes when you're silent for example, perhaps now, uh, it's almost as though, it's like keeping your coat on.  I imagine from what you said that telling things that seem very personal must feel much like undressing, taking your coat off, or as though it were sort of a mental undressing.  And that if you're silent it's not doing that.
PATIENT:  Well, sometimes it is.  But sometimes it's almost as if, I don't know, practically almost that I'm just sort of making up fantasies.  Not, not that strongly but — and just sort of, things are sort of vague.  And I'm not, I don't want to get hold of them because I don't think I really would want to talk about them if I did.  Or I suppose that again is the same thing.
ANALYST: Like kind of keeping your mental coat on.
PATIENT:  (Silence) That is something I do with pretty much everybody that I'm connected with.  Because I was just noticing today at school that lots of people who've been there a much shorter time are having much friendlier relationships with other people than I do.  And I always am very reserved and I don't know, I don't want them to know too much about me and I don't ask too much about them.  But on the other hand, I do want some kind of a warmer friendship with them.  (Pause) And I suppose this conflict is something that happens here too.  Especially since I am saying so many things that I just feel you don't say to anybody unless you know them terribly well.  (Pause)
And I think one thing I was thinking and I didn't feel I could say was that if I ever met you outside of here, I would just feel extremely awkward and it would just seem so weird because in a way you would know me so well and, and yet in another way, it would again just be like 2 strangers, or from my point anyway.  (Silence) And I know sometimes I've thought when I've waited for the elevator, what if you (cough) decided to come down too in the elevator.  I would probably feel I had to say something and I wouldn't have any idea of what to do.  And this happens to me with lots of people at school too.  I mean without quite the, I don't know, there's a formula I can go through with them, whereas there isn't any I could go through with you because the formula I have with you is in here.  Formula is a sort of a funny word, but —.
ANALYST: We're each in our place here.
PATIENT:  Yes.  (Pause) And this has bothered me too, when I meet some of the boys on the street.  Because again, I don't meant to, but just slips out, I'll say some stupid trite thing and I'll say it again and again to all sorts of boys without really wanting to say it.  But it sounds like I don't know what else to say, so it just comes out before I want it to.  And again, it keeps a certain distance between me and the boy if I do it.  (Silence)
Another thought that occurred to me is sometimes when I'm, especially at the beginning when I've come in and I just find I can't start saying anything I really almost hope you'll say something so that I then will feel that I want to respond or that I ought to respond but anyway it will make me respond, it will make me start talking.  (Pause) It's funny, the thought I just got after saying that was that now that you know that, maybe you won't ever do it again.
ANALYST: Sounds like a variation on your idea that I'll use what you say against you.
PATIENT:  (Pause) It makes me think of a reaction I used to have when I was younger.  And for some reason I was thinking that somehow there was a connection between my feeling that way and feeling when I was younger that I couldn't let on what I wanted because that would mean it would be withdrawn more.  And perhaps this is true of things like wanting more open affection, and if I'd express that I was afraid it might have been withdrawn more.  But what I first thought of was reactions I used to have at Christmas, and there used to be one or two things that I really wanted every Christmas.  I, then, they've changed each Christmas, but anyway, they would, there would be one or two things that would be just completely frivolous or childish or whatever, and what my parents usually gave us were things that were educational and good books and sometimes something that probably was very nice, but I just didn't appreciate at the time because I'd had some toy or something else in mind.  And I used to always be so disappointed, because it just seemed like I could never just have that one childish thing that I really wanted more than anything else.  Until finally I just decided well, better not expect too much from Christmas.  And it bothered me in particular, because, because children would always compare what they got and it seemed like all my friends used to get some frivolous thing or something that they'd really wanted.  And my parents used to have the idea too, or my mother, that you showed a lack of interest in the person if you asked them what they wanted.  Although I know she used to ask us and I used to be very careful to make it very clear, it seemed to me.  (Pause)
That and because they used to be so very fair between me and FYC that when my Christmas came parallel to one she had had, I, if she'd have any big thing given to her for instance, a record player or a radio or something, then I knew that that Christmas I would be getting one too.  And I'd be all prepared to be really mad and upset if I didn't get one but yet on the other hand there'd be absolutely no fun in it because I knew they were absolutely fair so I'd get one.  (Pause) And I don't know, now it strikes me that I would have thought I'd be bothered by that because it, this complete impartiality almost was like not treating us at all as individuals and perhaps I was bothered unconsciously by that.  And I just thought of the fact that really, the whole course that my sis—, older sister and I followed was practically identical because I did copy everything she did, telling myself that, that well, that I was that way too.  And I wasn't really copying her, but in a way, it was like we were being mass produced for my family and the one thing I had of, as an interest that nobody else in my family had was riding horseback.
And I sometimes wonder if I didn't develop that into something more than it really meant to me just so I had something that was me and nobody else.  And I think perhaps, I have very little memory of my younger sister na doing that much with horseback riding except that the one or two times I can recall at all she had showed that she was obviously quite good although she never was interested in it quiet the way I was.  But I think I must have been quite envious or somehow upset that she could come into this field that was mine and without the same interest or effort be practically as good or maybe even better.  (Silence)
The more I think about that feeling I had about Christmas, the more I think I must have been bothered by the way FYC and I were handled exactly the same because by the time na came along, it does seem to me that they had a different system for her.  And that they somehow recognized her interests as being individual much more.  And for a while I think it, for a long while, it made me think that maybe I didn't really have any interests so how could they recognize them.  But then my father would do something like, when I was in my freshman year in college he (cough) I took a physics course mainly because he hadn't had physics in college and he thought it would be a good idea if we did or he had and had thought it was a good idea so we should, one or the other.  But I never liked math and I'd done not too well with courses involving math, so physics being based the way it was on having certain control of mathematical processes was extremely hard for me and I just made a, had a mental block against it anyway, and I wasn't working that hard at the beginning of my freshman year.  So I think I was doing, getting D's or something, and my parents were both very afraid I was going to flunk out of college and they kept calling my older sister about it which infuriated me.  And so for Christmas my father gave me 3 used chemistry textbooks which he thought was a nice gift.
ANALYST: Do you?
PATIENT:  No, I was very angry (chuckle).  Because first of all, I knew I wasn't going to be flunking out of college and I knew I could do better in it if I really applied myself although I wouldn't do that well.  And I didn't at that point really want to do that well and it was his interest, physics, not mine.  (Silence) And I think sometimes I used to think that not only was I being treated like FYC but even less than FYC.  Because FYC came first, so everything she did was special because it was for the first time.  And by the time I came along it had all been done before and I think in particular again, in regard, just regarding college because the first vacation she had, her freshman year when she came home, my father was extremely excited and he decorated the dining room and it was very much of a holiday spirit.  And by the time I was coming home, and of course this would be with FYC, everything was just sort of well of course, you're here.  And my mother sometimes would try to have special food that she knew we particularly liked, which I was pleased by.  But on the whole it was just kind of matter of fact and there was nothing special about the fact that that was my first holiday home.
And I remember in particular being very upset and annoyed too at my father's reaction to the first room we both had.  Because both of us had the same kind of a room in our freshman years and my father was horrified when FYC had this room and he thought well how can she live like this and she didn't have any space and it was, wasn't it awful, and poor FYC and all that.  But by the time when I was a freshman having this exact same space, he just accepted it as well, that's what freshmen have, and there's nothing wrong with that.  (Cough) And I think I felt very angry at him, just for something like that.
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
