TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I had a really hard time focusing at work today. I spent a lot of time today on Twitter instead of working. And then at 4:00 I finally had a full moment and just didn't want to get up and leave to come here because I felt so guilty about not working all day. So I didn't leave until about 4:40 which is about 20 minutes too late to get here on time. So I might have gotten here on time if traffic hadn't been bad but there was a wreck on which slowed traffic down quite a bit. And the pedestrians on are assholes. 
THERAPIST: As it turned out. (Laughter) 
CLIENT: (Laughter) More so than usual today or maybe I just noticed it more like there being a big crowd of people going across a cross walk as often because it's a busy area. I often feel like two or three people just standing there talking on their cell phones on the sidewalk or like making out with their girlfriend or whatever. Wait until the crowd goes, I revved the engine, pull into the thing, and then they dart out in front of me. I'm like come on fuckheads. [00:01:31]
(Pause) So yeah, sorry. (Pause) I've been really frustrated at work. It's a combination of things. Each time I've almost kind of sort of figured out how to maybe not be a waste of the company's money my project gets changed. So I found out on Monday that my boss's boss decided that my group was overstaffed and our sister group was understaffed, and so they were going to move me because I was the least critical person on my team. So I had to learn an entirely different set of tools because my sister group was in what we call 1 mode whereas my group was in pre-1 mode which means you use a completely different suite of tools which is very frustrating. [00:02:33]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:02:36)
CLIENT: Uh huh. So nothing is working and I have a new supervisor who I don't know and it's just... I really wanted to cry most of the day today. 
THERAPIST: Was today your first day in the group?
CLIENT: No I wrapped up stuff in my old group Tuesday afternoon and kind of got started Tuesday. I worked on it yesterday and today. It was just (pause) really frustrating. [00:03:18]
THERAPIST: I think it was Friday that you were saying this is the face of things you hate. 
CLIENT: Yep. I haven't been to the gym since Sunday. I haven't cooked food for myself in two weeks. I've just been getting take out or eating frozen food. I feel terrible but by the end of the work day I'm so tired I just want to collapse. And I don't know how to deal with that with just being so tired I can't even do anything. This didn't happen at the last nine to five job that I had. Of course, the frustrations there were more interpersonal and the work was easy and not—the work itself wasn't all that stressful, and the commute was shorter, and I had a nicer kitchen so it was much easier to come home and be excited about cooking something delicious for myself. (inaudible at 00:04:31) and I wasn't living with Dave yet, and I had a roommate who was scrupulous about keeping the kitchen clean whereas Dave is a fucking slob and refuses to clean. [00:04:42]
And eventually about two years ago I told him this was completely unacceptable to me. I could not do all the housework. I could not nag him to do shit and have him promise and not do it so we decided to hire a housekeeper. Now he's like why should I do dishes? The housekeeper will do them. Well because they pile up during the week. The housekeeper comes once a week. We don't have a dishwasher. You can't just leave dirty dishes. They smell and they take up counter space. And then I can't make food for myself, and that impacts my quality of life, and it's really angering to me that he refuses to acknowledge that there's an impact on me. [00:05:24]
(Pause) 
THERAPIST: How does he convey that?
CLIENT: Well this is an old thing. I'll say I've done dishes four times this week and the dishes are piling up again. Can you do them? Oh yeah I'll get to them. I can't cook unless you do the dishes. Well why can't you? There's plenty of space. (Pause) And then that's not even getting into the problem of we have a crappy apartment and there's not enough counter space, and there's not enough cabinet space so the refrigerator is situated awkwardly such that the door can only open a third of the way so it's hard to get into and out of the refrigerator. It's one of those stupid refrigerators where the refrigerator part is on bottom and the freezer part is on top, and I prefer them side by side. The refrigerator isn't big enough. It's a half size refrigerator and our landlord won't buy us a replacement because the refrigerator belongs to him not to us. I hate it. I hate everything about our apartment. That's not true. There are some things I like about... [00:06:59]
THERAPIST: Yeah, but I understand. 
CLIENT: But (pause)... I know it sounds really whiny to me because I have an apartment that's actually relatively nice compared to some of the other places that I've lived in. My landlord isn't a monster and you know... And our apartment is cheap. And given the people that don't have jobs and don't have homes... [00:07:36]
THERAPIST: You can (inaudible at 00:07:37) being pissed off about your apartment without sort of having to reign yourself in and be realistic. Of course both those realities are true. I'm sure you're generally quite in touch with them. 
CLIENT: (Pause) One I just feel so greedy to want more. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: I guess you imagine I'll see you as greedy? [00:08:53]
CLIENT: (Pause) No, I see me as greedy. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:09:28]
CLIENT: Well part of it is when I'm at friend's houses the site of my friend's have nicer homes than me which is not all of my friends certainly. But the ones who do I look around their kitchens and I just think why can't I have nice things too. If I let myself I get entirely too caught up with the keeping up with the Jones's phenomenon. It doesn't just become I want a nicer kitchen. It becomes why can't I own a house too? Why can't I own a really nice house and have restaurant quality kitchen equipment and completely renovate the whole thing and have gorgeous expensive fixtures? Why can't I have an interior decorator come decorate my house? There's just... It feels like once I start to let myself wanting things there's no end to the number of things that I want. [00:10:37]
THERAPIST: That insatiable. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: I bet that's not just about kitchens. 
CLIENT: It's not. 
THERAPIST: I mean I know what you mean and a kitchen is probably a pretty good arena for that sort of thing as far as I know. (Pause) At least (inaudible at 00:11:24) a minute or two ago you're worried if you really let yourself and don't reign yourself in you will go totally off the deep end. [00:11:34]
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: And that probably (pause) you'd get yourself into a really painful irrational inappropriate destructive behavior or something. 
CLIENT: Uh huh. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: I think that... It doesn't sound to me like keeping up with the Jones's in a competitive sense. It sounds more to me like you want things that feel nice. [00:12:33]
CLIENT: Maybe. 
THERAPIST: That gives you a (inaudible at 00:12:38) make you feel good about cravings. But maybe you want a better kitchen, a different kitchen, but I don't know. But I haven't heard anything really that bad yet. (Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, there's one couple I know in particular and I'm always comparing my lifestyle to theirs and finding my lifestyle's falling short like their cars are nicer than my car, and I want a car like theirs. Or their house is nicer than my house and bigger than my own. They own their house and we rent and this is a huge bone of contention between me and Dave because he thinks it doesn't make financial sense to buy especially in the area. And I think it doesn't make financial sense not to buy. Yes you don't actually end up owning the house until you've spent 30 years paying off the mortgage, and you have to pay property taxes. But at least you're building equity right. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: Again, obviously the financial aspect is important, but I have the sense that like satisfying would feel good for you about owning where you live like it would feel substantial and...
CLIENT: Right. I could install fucking counters in my kitchen if I wanted to and then have enough goddamn counter space, or I could replace the horrible ridiculous ugly cabinet in the bathroom with one that is not an eye tearing monstrosity, or I could install a fucking dishwasher which I am fully willing to pay for but the landlord won't give us permission to rip up the counters to install a dishwasher. It's just... You know being able to have control over my environment is a lot to me. Like Dave can't understand this. We've had so many conversations about it and he just [00:15:01]
THERAPIST: (Pause) The thing is it sounds to me like are you taken care of like he's also taking care of you. And that feeling of, I think, a tremendous sort of lack in that department, I think, probably through your whole life. [00:16:09]
CLIENT: Yep. 
THERAPIST: And I want to make it clear that I don't know enough about things with you and Dave to sort of give you quality of any kind of general way. I'm aware of the conversation you're talking about now. That you're frustrated about but not wanting to slight him. I'm happy to slight your parents about it but not further more. But I don't want to be... 
CLIENT: I understand. I don't feel like the apartment is mine. 
THERAPIST: Then who's is it?
CLIENT: Well Dave chose it while I was still living in South Carolina. I had no say...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:16:50). I get it.
CLIENT: And there are these four really huge ugly pieces of furniture. There's one that's six feet tall by six feet wide by two feet deep that takes up an enormous amount of space in our bedroom. There's this giant fake half counter horrible thing from IKEA that takes up a bunch of space in our kitchen. And this horrible drafting table that Dave has converted into just a place where he piles all the electronics in a jumbled tangle of wires and crap in the living room that serves as our TV stand that he had from two apartments before we moved in together that he refuses to get rid of. [00:17:34]
But he won't let me get rid, and they're horrible, and they don't fit in the space we have now, and they're ugly to look at. And if I could get rid of them and replace them with something better then maybe I'd feel happier with the space that I'm stuck in. But he doesn't want to get rid of them because they're all... And it's not the money that would cost to replace them. It's the time and energy it would take to select a new piece that we both agree on and replace it. I mean we've been in this apartment for four years, and I still don't feel like any of the space in the apartment is mine. And it's just (pause) it's really upsetting. [00:18:18]
And I guess I sort of felt while I was unemployed when I was grad school that because Dave was paying all of our rent and supporting me financially that I didn't have a right to criticize. Now all this stuff is coming up where why am I putting up with furniture that doesn't fit in the space and that I don't like, and that makes it impossible to open the refrigerator door all the way, or that makes it impossible to open my bedroom closet door all the way. Like why am I putting up with this? I have money. If I were living alone I would've trashed them months ago and replaced them. But I'm not and yeah (pause)... I really hate sharing my space. I really hate it. [00:19:20]
(Pause)
THERAPIST: I don't know what's true in reality but in terms of what your experience of this is like, hasn't it... In ways you know even though you're the sharing the space it doesn't feel as though much of it is yours. [00:20:16]
CLIENT: Right. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: So the question is if there was some space somehow like you could do what you wanted with (inaudible at 00:20:46). Not awesome but better. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: It's pretty awful to be living somewhere that you really don't like with a bunch of stuff that drives you up a wall and no sense of control about it. [00:22:08]
CLIENT: Yep. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: And yet I get—this isn't exactly what you said, I'm sort of inferring here—but it seems to me you do feel sort of greedy, or like you're being entitled, or something if you want things to be different like you don't deserve it. Maybe less so now that you're working. But it sounds like this whole time (inaudible at 00:23:10). (Pause) [00:23:31]
CLIENT: Well like here's one example. There are two low cabinets that I can't get to because the only place to put the trashcan is right in front of them. And so if I ever want to access the things that are in, which are all of the baking dishes and roasting pans because those are the things I use least often, I have to move the trashcan and then wedge myself into this tiny space between the built-in counter on one side and this horrible stupid IKEA table thing that Dave has on the other side that's about three feet wide. And I have to crouch down in that space to get into the cabinet. And so I bought a trashcan that got installed in the cabinet under the sink and Dave refuses to use it and refuses to let me get rid of the old trashcan because he doesn't like throwing the trash out under the sink. [00:24:29]
(Pause) And I don't know how to even deal with that other than wait until he's out of the house and just take the other trashcan to the dumpster and not give him an option, but that feels a little unfair to me. 
THERAPIST: (Laughter)
CLIENT: Not that what he's doing is very fair, but like...
THERAPIST: I'm not necessarily suggesting you do that but it's interesting. (Pause) And I'm sorry. I don't mean to make light of something I know is...
CLIENT: No, I know. It's completely ridiculous but this has caused so much drama. I understand that it's funny from an outside perspective. [00:25:17]
THERAPIST: No. The thing I was finding funny was that you were saying you felt it would be unfair if you would throw it away when it wasn't at all to me what he was doing was any fair. That was the thing that I was laughing about not actually your frustration. 
CLIENT: I understand.
THERAPIST: It sounds like there's this which is frustrating in itself and it's connected to lots of other things that are also incredibly frustrating. But anyway I'm sorry for making light. (Pause) I guess (pause) doesn't sound to me like there was any particular question in the way you put that which I heard as and so what the hell am I supposed to do. [00:26:44]
CLIENT: Yeah. If you have any suggestions...
THERAPIST: I don't know. (Pause) I don't know what the (inaudible at 00:27:05). I guess what is clear is how much you resent your feeling over it to the point where I imagine it's probably pretty hard to think and talk about. 
CLIENT: And it's just... Since we started having a housekeeper come and clean once a week, the only chores that either of us do are washing and putting away the dishes, and putting away the laundry which the housekeeper washes and folds, but he doesn't know where it goes so he just leaves it stacked on the bed. And Dave doesn't do either of those things. And I can ask him, and beg him, and nag him, and he just won't do it. [00:27:55]
So laundry will be stacked on the bed when we get home from work on Monday evening. And if I don't put it away Dave will just go to sleep on top of the clean laundry. If I put away my laundry and not his, he'll sleep on top of his clean laundry and it's just... And then he'll wear laundry that he slept on that's now wrinkled and dirty because we both shower in the morning and it's disgusting. (Pause) I can feel the whole like kitchen sink sort of compliance about Dave's housekeeping welling up. I just want to purge. I don't know if that would be useful or not. [00:28:47]
THERAPIST: I don't know. Do you feel like it would weigh you down, or feel like a relief, or screw you up? 
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:29:06] (Pause) 
CLIENT: (Pause) What I really want is to have a place big enough that we can have separate rooms for our stuff, and then if he wants to just shove his clean clothes in a pile on the floor of his closet, or have this horrible open space cubby hole unit where he just shoves stuff in and then wrinkled, unfolded, nice dress clothes are just hanging off the edge of the shelves I don't have to see it. And his crap isn't in the way of me being able to access my closet, or my drawers, or things I like to keep organized. (Pause) Yep. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: We can stop for now. 
CLIENT: Uh huh. [00:30:31]
END TRANSCRIPT
