Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: Thanks. How are you?
THERAPIST: Good thank you.
CLIENT: I've been having anxiety for the last week for some reason. I don't know why. It's been bothering me. Not as bad like it used to be because I can just tell myself now— now I'm very aware that it's just anxiety. [00:00:57]
But it still has been there and it bothers me because I have— because then as soon as it starts then I start - . It's a cycle. Because then I start thinking, "Oh no you're not okay. And this is going to get bad again." And then I start getting more tense because it's a terrible cycle. So I don't really know — I don't really know why it has been happening this week. But I think part of it was that I was having — I was going to go out to dinner with my friend Emma on Friday. And then maybe talk to her about some issues that I was feeling were present in our friendship that I wanted to address. And I think I was tense about that going through the week. And tense about my brother going to his appointment for the first time. And those were both on Friday. [00:01:52]
And then my friend, Devorah, from high school decided on Thursday — said, "Maybe I'll come down for the weekend." And then on Friday said, "I'm coming for the weekend." And that always makes me — I just get kind of tense when I know that there are going to be people staying in my living room all weekend. (laughs) And I get like nervous about — I don't know what I get nervous about. I get nervous about putting on a good — like hosting. And things going okay. And having stuff to talk about. And she's just one of those four girlfriends from high school that I have had — there's this background history with. That was the other thing I talked to Chris about seeing.
So well anyway. It's kind of layered. So on Friday I went out with my girlfriend Emma to dinner. And I really wanted to talk to her about just some issues in our friendship because she's my closest friend here. And our husbands are best friends. And we really love each other. We're great. [00:02:59]
We're very close but there are these huge issues I think in our friendship. And I feel like it's not always a healthy dynamic. And I wanted to kind of address it with her. And I was really nervous about it. And I was really nervous about her reaction and would she think, "I have no idea what you're talking about." And then I appear like I'm this bad friend because I feel these things.
Anyway. So I kind of practiced with Chris on Thursday. And kind of went over what I wanted to say so that I didn't come off as harsh because I can do that. I can start talking and I can sound really accusatory because I know that I do that with Chris. And I don't mean to but it's because I just say it as I think it instead of - . So I practiced with him. [00:03:51]
And then Thursday we didn't work out a dinner because we were so close to this one couple and so that made me tense the whole dinner. Because I thought, "I have this thing I want to say but I can't say it." And now it's looming over you. It's like when you go into a situation with this intention or this idea of how it's going to go — especially something you need to say and then you feel like it's not going to happen. It makes me more tense.
But then we were forty minutes early for our movie so I suggested we take a walk. And I started talking to her about it. And the first few things I brought up she was really reactive to. And really she said, "You know —." I talked to her. I said, "I'm going to go out with new people. Our friend is visiting from California." And she would be domineering and take over a situation. And I felt really left out and irritated by her behavior because of several reasons. [00:04:52]
And she got really defensive. And I tried to say, "I see you're reacting. I don't want it to be that." So I kind of explained myself more. I said, "I know there are things that I do that are not okay. And they're not good for our friendship." So she got to talk a little bit about it. And then we talked about the competitive nature of our friendship. And things that we get competitive about and why we think we do that. And it turned around.
It ended up she was totally on the same page as me. And felt the same way. And said, "I hadn't thought about it that way." And it was really—it felt like this weight kind of lifted. And it was really — we both cried a little. And then ended with a hug. And just said how happy we both were that we had talked about it. And it felt so nice. [00:05:52]
It felt like both of us had just said that we had— this had existed for a few years. And that we were just relieved to move forward and be more aware of these things. We both knew we did them. I knew I did it. She knew she did it. She knew that I knew that she did it. But it had never been talked about.
And now that it's been let out it's easier for some reason. I don't know why. So that felt really nice. But something that came up in it, she said, "When your girlfriends from New Hampshire visit—." I automatically go into — because I said, "When we go out with new people I automatically set myself up for this." And she said, "Well, when we go out with your friends from New Hampshire, when I know they're going to be here, I set myself up to be on the sidelines. And to not participate because you (meaning me) get so engaged in your—and I feel a little left out." And I was very aware of that. I knew that that happened. [00:06:54]
And I explained to her there was this situation in high school where I — because I had never told her about it before. And I didn't go to into detail with her. And I said, "They didn't talk to me for months." It was a huge thing. And ever since then I just have this need when they come around to make sure it's a good time. And to make sure they're having fun with me. And to make sure that I appear together and fun. And great. And she and I didn't go into anymore detail with that.
But when I was talking with Chris the next morning, he said, "What do you mean you had a huge falling out with your girlfriends from high school?" And I thought I had told him but I guess I had never told him about it. So he asked me to tell him the story and then I told him in lengthy detail about everything that happened over those few months. And it made me just feel really sad and really upset still about how that all happened. And how I'm just still really sad about it. [00:08:14]
And then we had finished and I was cleaning up the breakfast dishes. And he asked if I wanted to hang out. And I said, ugh like I'm not doing anything. I gave kind of a flippant answer. Like I'm not doing anything. I'm just going to read or something. And he's like, "All right. Fine. I'm going to school." He was mad that I didn't want to hang out and do something with him. And so he just left me.
And felt like so sad because I had just kind of talked about this big thing that I hadn't talked about it in years but still — I'd be like this. Off and on teary when I was talking about it. And then he just — since I didn't like enthusiastically want to do something with him. He just left me. And I was alone for the rest of the day. And I felt so sad. And I think that left me feeling really just tense. [00:09:23]
And then one of my girlfriends, who was one of the girls who I had this falling out with in high school, was the one coming a few hours later. That afternoon. So it just left me with all these kind of weird feelings. And then we went and hung out with Emma later that evening. Which was good practice because she had said, "When we hang out with your friends from New Hampshire I feel left out." And so it was good to go immediately after and have this situation. And then we spoke yesterday and she said that she was happy with Saturday. So anyway. That was good. But my only point being that it just left me with this tension. And this — I couldn't. I felt like I'd talked about it with him and then there was no — then it was like done. He left ten minutes later. And I felt so kind of abandoned by it. [00:10:20]
And even though he was really comforting during the discussion and he was relating it to a friend that he knew in high school. And was clearly really listening to me and really hearing everything that I was saying which was great. But then the afterwards I just felt so disappointed. And I kept saying, "No I'll do it. I'll hang out. I don't necessarily want to go do anything right now. Kind of just want to relax. It's Saturday morning. Let's just hang out." And he's like, "I'm already packed up. I gotta go." Which left me feeling so — anyway. [00:11:07]
THERAPIST: Is it something you feel you can talk about with him?
CLIENT: Yeah I can. And he would definitely respond and listen to me. And I just didn't get the opportunity really this weekend. (pause at [00:11:24] to 00:11:28) But I think that that was just why I've been feeling kind of tense the rest — I think the week that's where I was feeling tense. And this weekend was some other reasons maybe why I was feeling a little anxious. (pause at [00:11:41] to 00:11:48)
He said during the discussion that it's funny that it doesn't get brought up with you and your girlfriends. Like you guys just don't—it's never talked about. And I said, "No it was something for years that I thought about everyday. And I don't think about it nearly as much anymore. But it's still there. I'm still am affected by it I think." [00:12:13]
Especially since we're still a group of friends. We're not like, "Oh I'm better friends with this one." We're still very much a group of friends. And so he said, "It's weird because usually as an adult you look back on these things that you've done and you have remorse. And you have—it's just funny that none of them would approach you and say that they're sorry for the way that they treated you or how it happened."
And it's funny because I had never — the only perspective that I had had was that I was—because what happened was that —. I mean it had been a few months coming but we were at a party. And I was on Zoloft at the time. I was prescribed Zoloft. And I was drinking. And I just totally acted out. I mean I was sitting on my friend's ex-boyfriend's lap and kind of giving her this face. I was on top of a car at one point and fell off and hit my head. [00:13:12]
And then I could hear my girlfriends in the bathroom talking about me. And so that's the last thing that happened. I could hear them talking about me so I started pounding on the door. And I just lost it. And demanded, "Let me in!" And they wouldn't let me in. So I kept getting more upset. I was saying, "I can hear you! Just let me in!" And they finally let me in. And they were screaming, "Oh my God! You're crazy!"
It was this whole big screaming match. And then after that they just didn't — it was the last few months of senior year of high school. And then they just didn't talk to me. A few months later it sort of got repaired. Kind of. And eventually it was just kind of — it was months of not talking to me. And then we had a — there was a project in our high school that everybody had to do. [00:14:07]
And I just wasn't a good student anyway. I didn't do anything in high school. And I didn't do this project really even though you were supposed to be working on it all year. And you need to pass a paper. A thirty page paper, a presentation and a certain amount of hours to graduate. And going into the presentation a few weeks before graduation I was in a group — it's an all day thing.
Your parents come. Everybody comes. School shuts down. It's a whole thing. And you're in small groups of about five students in classrooms throughout the school. I was in the group with one of my girlfriends, Chrissie, which originally was great. And super exciting because we thought we could be a support for each other and be there together. But when it came to it they hadn't been talking to me for two months at that point. And I was incredibly hurt by it, upset and devastated. And she was there with our friend Devorah. [00:15:09]
And they sat there. And they were smirking at me. And glaring at me during this presentation that I was clearly totally unprepared for in front of them, in front of my peers, their parents and everybody. And I started crying during my presentation and I couldn't get it together. And I had to sit down and stop my presentation part way through because I was so upset. And I failed my presentation. And anyway. So then a few weeks later things got better. So anyway.
I'd always just seen it as me having the problem. I was the one who flipped out. And I was the one who acted like a lunatic. And so of course they wouldn't talk to me for months. And of course they would not want to be my friend. And of course they would say these mean things to me and about me. And treat me badly. [00:16:08]
But Chris saw it as these girls were mean to you. If they were your friends and they were just being mean to you, it's weird that now as your friends it's not talked about. And nothing is even like said. Like maybe that was kind of mean. And I don't know.
He sees it as they were kind of in the wrong. And I don't know if I totally agree with that. But I do. I don't know. It is weird that it's not ever talked about. For me at least. (pause at [00:16:46] to 00:16:55) (shifts in seat) So I don't know. I always kind of feel like it's very carefully not talked about because things will be talked about in high school and it's very carefully skimmed over. [00:17:13]
We'll talk about everything else that happened. Oh that prom that we all wore matching dresses. Or oh this that happened. Or oh remember your graduation party. And no one talks about the fact that the graduation party was the first time we'd talked in months. But it's just skipped over.
THERAPIST:: What part of what happened do you think your friends most objected to that night?
CLIENT: Mm. (pause at [00:17:41] to 00:17:47) I don't know if they were — well when I woke up there was a list. The whole house was cleaned up. And there was a list. Because I had to walk up these stairs to get out of the room I was sleeping in. And there was a list that said, "Reasons Jenny's a slut. Or reason Jenny (inaudible at 00:18:04)." And in it there was something about — there were a lot of things about my slutty behavior. [00:18:11]
So I don't if that was part of it. I think maybe — I don't know if they were afraid of me. Afraid of me physically harming — I don't know what it was. I truly don't know. I don't know if they just didn't — if I frightened them because I was obviously so out of control. Because as a teenager maybe that's a scary thing. I don't really know.
THERAPIST: Were you scared of your behavior?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Mm-mm. I mean it was clearly just — I mean I was mad at them. I mean I had been months of —. I was depressed in high school so I would act out. And I was kind of just like — it was clear that you could put me down and I would just kind of react to it. [00:19:17]
But it was kind of acceptable. It was kind of like a joke. And so I don't know. I think that it had just been going on for so long that — I don't know. I don't know where I'm going with this. But yeah I was scared by my behavior. (pause at [00:19:40] to 00:19:46)
I was so desperate for them to like me and to approve of me and to treat me the same that they treated the rest of our friends. But they all treated themselves with self-respect first. And that's how they got respect. But I hated myself. And I hated everything about what was going on in my life. [00:20:16]
So I just didn't really have much — it felt a lot of times like they were the only things that I had that could make me happy. Or that gave me happiness. Which it makes you feel desperate. Because first of all they're not treating you well. (chuckles) But I was allowing them to not treat me well because it was kind of all that I really had. I felt like I really had.
So. I don't know. (pause at [00:21:02] to 00:21:31) (sighs) I don't really know. That's all I have about that. (pause at [00:21:35] to 00:21:53) Anyway. (pause at [00:21:54] to 00:22:05) I don't know. What do you think?
THERAPIST: I was thinking what made you stop. [00:22:09]
CLIENT: I don't know. I just don't really have anything else — one thing that I've been thinking about is that yesterday Devorah was saying — . We were talking about one of our friends. One of girlfriends that had hooked up with one of our guy friends. And then it just started talking the girls and the guys who got together in high school. And she was like, "Yeah why don't we ever joke more about all the guys that you slept with? That could've been really funny."
And I was thinking, "That could've kind of been funny." Like kind of. And then we started talking about it more. And I just answered her really honestly. And I just said, "I think probably just because it was so clear that the reason I was getting with all of our guy friends was because I had no self esteem. And no self worth. And so I was just doing it to validate any positive male attention that I could get. And so I think it probably just was obviously so pathetic. And that's just not funny." [00:23:27]
And she's like, "Yeah we probably just didn't want to hurt your feelings." And I said, "Well honestly you guys weren't really gentle with my feelings. That gentle with my feelings in high school anyway. So maybe that wasn't really it." And she kind of chuckled and she said, "Yeah that's true." And it was the only time that I had really heard her or anybody say — even though I was the one that said it. Say that maybe they weren't necessarily the nicest to me. I mean our high school — it just would've happened—. It doesn't excuse it but I mean that's just the nature of the situation. [00:24:17]
If there is a group of sixteen year old girls somebody has got to be — especially a girl who is hooking up with all of your guy friends. You're going to get picked on and get kind of a reputation. And get kind of a — I don't know. (pause at [00:24:38] to 00:24:47) So.
THERAPIST: It really upsets you to think about that time.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:24:53] to 00:25:06) Mm-hmm. Yeah because things were so fun. And then for the most part I just feel — I look at myself at that period of time now and I feel like I look so desperate. I can remember the feeling. And the feeling was desperation. [00:25:22]
Like desperate for my friends to like me as much as they seemed to like each other. And to include me. And I just didn't ever feel fully included. And I just remember feeling really desperate for that. And I mean — I just remember feeling really clearly on the outside of my social circle. And just feeling frustrated and upset and angry. And then feeling like they then react to my anger that I bring from my home. They react to it too because it's not something that they understand or they want to be around. [00:26:21]
They're 16, 17, 18 year old girls. They want to be having fun and giggling and whatever. Driving around and singing. They don't want to be — I was always the one who was like melting down or crying. Or upset. Or something. And it just wasn't — you know that's not fun. (pause at [00:26:48] to 00:26:58) So I just think now I'm just really conscious of being, when I'm around them, fun.
Or really like strong. Or really almost like an authority. Like when they start talking about — I take on this way of talking when they talk about anything. Like boy problems or work or anything. I take on this really like — "Well this is what you should do." And I have this really like, this really direct and I always have an answer. And I always have something to say. [00:27:39]
Because I never had anything to say before growing up. And I wasn't taken seriously. And I don't know. I just do this. Instead of being more empathetic and like, "Oh my God. That sucks." I do do that but I say more like, "He can't do that. And this is what you should do. And this is why." And duh, duh, duh. And I'm much more — I feel myself trying to portray my strength in the way that I talk.
I let myself be vulnerable around them too. It's not like this whole big charade. I've been really honest with them about my depression issues and my anxiety issues. And stuff like that. But only after I started to get help for it. Not before that. I never talked about it before that. Now that I'm here and that I'm taking other steps to kind of make myself better; I'm open about it. But never before. [00:28:39] (pause at [00:28:41] to 00:29:04) (sighs)
With those friends it's a little different though than my friendship with Emma because I don't even know with them anymore if it's something that's worth talking about. Because I don't think I would get the reaction that — I just think that there are so many feelings. I don't think that there's—like with Emma I knew that if I addressed some things about our relationship —. It's just the two of us. [00:29:32]
And there is only — we can both really easily take responsibility. Because here's you and here's me. And it's just the two of us in this. I mean we have a group of friends bigger than us. But here for the most part it's just the two of us. And so we can really take responsibility for each other's. And I still would feel like if I addressed anything with any of my girlfriends from New Hampshire that it would still take on a mentality of like we the group and you stand alone. And that —I don't know.
THERAPIST: Mm. You don't see any way to get out of the dynamic of being the outsider? [00:30:24]
CLIENT: Uh-uh. No. (pause at [00:30:27] to 00:30:47) I don't know. I guess it's something I'll have to think more about. (pause at [00:30:49] to 00:31:02) I don't know. (pause at [00:31:03] to 00:31:10) I guess I don't even really know what I want either. Like by having a discussion about it.
I guess what I want is for them to say that I wasn't the only one that behaved badly. Because I did really behave badly. But I guess what I want is for them to also say that maybe they didn't handle it the best either. And that maybe they were a little mean. I guess that's what I want. [00:31:39]
But what's that going to do? Is that going to make it better? Is that going to make it — it's not going to make it go away. It's not going to — like what's that going to do for me? (pause at [00:31:55] to 00:32:11)
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you're looking for some way, with other people other than yourself, to make peace with what's happened in the past.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah. That's kind of how I feel. I just kind of want to let a lot of things from the past go. And move forward from them. And I feel like with my group of girlfriends from New Hampshire that lingers. Always. That's always there for me. [00:32:46]
And so I guess that would be a way of moving forward from it. Kind of putting it in the past. Because I (inaudible at 00:32:53) with Emma now. It feels like the stability to kind of turn a new page and move forward.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so I guess that is what it would be. Sort of something to talk about. Something to address. (pause at [00:33:11] to 00:33:18)
Yeah. (pause at [00:33:18] to 00:33:34) Mm. Then I decide that I want to talk to people about things like this and then it just sits in me. And it makes me tense until I do it. And that I have a problem with. [00:33:45]
THERAPIST: What do you think the tension is about?
CLIENT: The build up to knowing that something — that like a difficult conversation is going to happen. And a fear of it turning into an argument. And so it just — I feel like it sits. And then it just kind of like weighs on me. And I feel the need to like do it right away. Like I'll leave here and I'll want to call Chrissie. And be like okay I want to talk about that. Like I know myself and I know that's what I'll want to do. Because I want to just get it out instead of letting it keep sitting. Especially when I've made the decision to have a difficult conversation. It always will just kind of eat at me until it happens. [00:34:42]
THERAPIST: Are you afraid of what will happen?
CLIENT: Mm- hmm. (pause at [00:34:50] to 00:34:59) Yeah. I guess with them I'm afraid that they'll just say what I think which is that I was the crazy one. And that they couldn't handle being friends with me. And that they needed space and a break. And that I was totally a lunatic. And I'll get upset and defensive. That's my fear. I don't know if it'll actually happen or not. I don't think it will. I don't know. (pause at [00:35:44] to 00:36:06)
In good news, my brother went to his appointment and loved it. So that was good. [00:36:11]
THERAPIST: Was what you were talking about before bad news?
CLIENT: No it's just not happy. Not a good feeling to talk about. No it's not bad news. But it's just not (inaudible at 00:36:32) to talk about it. It's not easy. It's not — it makes me feel sad. And I feel anxious. And it just makes me feel really sad. (pause at [00:36:45] to 00:36:56)
And I guess I just wish it didn't make me feel sad anymore because it's almost ten years ago. It's so long ago. It feels so silly to still be so upset about something that happened almost a decade ago. (pause at [00:37:09] to 00:37:16)
THERAPIST: Because you should just be over it? [00:37:17]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. And because I'm still friends with these people and they still clearly care about me and love me. And now want the best for me. But you'd think that that would be healing from it but—.
THERAPIST: Well I personally wouldn't necessarily think that.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Because it's not how I'm trained to think. Or how I think.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you think that way.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Do you know anything about EMDR?
THERAPIST: Oh very little. What brings that to mind?
CLIENT: (chuckles) My brother actually. The woman that he's seeing has level two certification or something. And so I was looking into it. And I was just thinking about it. And wondering about it. And I don't know. (pause at [00:38:23] to 00:38:30) It sounds very interesting. But I don't know if I believe it. [00:38:34]
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm wondering what brought that to mind.
CLIENT: Um, just because I've been thinking about it. And thinking about (pauses at [00:38:45] to 00:38:54) just this feeling like — (pauses at [00:38:57] to 00:39:09) this feeling that I don't — I don't know.
I guess I don't really know where else to go with all my feelings. And that I don't know what else to do with some of these negative feelings anymore. And then I heard about this EMDR thing. And I looked into it. [00:39:31]
And it seems like this — I don't know it's oh this thing that will like—. It's like this thing that you do to like help process and get over these things. I don't know. Now the way I'm saying it sounds like a cop out. (chuckles) But (shifts in seat) — I don't know. It makes me think about coming here. And am I doing a good enough job? Like am I doing what I'm — I don't know.
I just feel like am I doing this right? Am I—I don't know. (shifts in seat) I don't know I just feel sometimes like I'm not. Like I'm not getting it. Sometimes I feel like there should be more that I'm understanding. But I don't feel like I'm me in myself and not like having—I don't know. Sometimes I feel disappointed in myself coming here because I feel like I'm not doing as good as I want to do. I don't know. [00:40:59]
THERAPIST: What do you want to be feeling that you're—or what do you want to be improving that you feel isn't?
CLIENT: All my anxiety to be gone. (chuckles) And I don't want to — like I still feel kind of unresolved about stuff from my childhood and my Dad. I don't know. Is that ever going to go away? (pause at [00:41:32] to 00:41:39) And then I hear about something like that, "Well maybe that makes it go away."
THERAPIST: Well just — does go away mean it's completely out of your memory? Or what does it mean? [00:41:53]
CLIENT: It means that I'm at peace with it and okay with it. And sometimes I don't feel like I am okay with a lot of things. Because I'm still so upset by them. (pauses and sniffles) And I just think it's like me myself. I don't think — I feel like I'm doing something wrong.
THERAPIST: You always feel like that.
CLIENT: I know. (sniffles) Like I feel like I'm not smart enough to process things or something or like I'm not smart enough to see something that I'm not seeing. (sniffles)
THERAPIST: Do you feel like I feel that way toward you? Or that I even communicated or didn't communicate something in this session that made you feel that way? [00:43:01]
CLIENT: (sniffles)
THERAPIST: Because you're talking about having these expectations that you feel you always come short. And you end up feeling so inadequate.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: So that even therapy you're sort of failing at somehow.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:43:28] to 00:43:38) (sniffles) Like I don't know what else to do to make myself happy. (pause at [00:43:41] to 00:43:55)
THERAPIST: You're doing things. You're doing so much to work through your pain. That's what's so striking to me is how much you're doing and little you feel you're doing. [00:44:05]
CLIENT: I know I just thought — I don't know. Maybe I have unrealistic expectations. I do have unrealistic expectations. But I just thought (sniffles) like I would be bouncing off the walls happy. Not bouncing. But I thought that I would be happy. (sniffles)
THERAPIST: After coming here or-?
CLIENT: After I'm here. After (inaudible at 00:44:37). Mostly stable marriage. And I have friends. And I have — I'm a good wife for the most part. And I do things for my family. And I'm trying to better myself. I'm taking on new hobbies. And I feel like I'm doing as much as I can to make myself happy. (sniffle) And I just feel like there must be something else I'm not doing because I still just don't feel happy. (sniffles) [00:45:19]
THERAPIST: You know, Jenny, we're going to need to stop. There is clearly a lot more to understand this because this issue comes up a lot. That somehow you're not doing this right. You should feel more progress. You should be further along. This comes up a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So let's talk about it on Wednesday.
CLIENT: Okay. Sounds good.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:45:44) good few days.
CLIENT: Thanks. You too. [00:45:46] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
