REALITY THERAPY FOR ADDICTIONS
Introduction
Robert Wubbolding, EdD is Professor of Counseling at Xavier University, Director of the Center for Reality Therapy in Cincinnati and Senior Faculty at the William Glasser Institute in Los Angeles. He has published 125 articles and book chapters, ten books and seven videos on reality therapy, and has taught reality therapy and choice theory all over the world. Dr. Wubbolding adapts his renowned Reality Therapy approach to work with clients struggling with addictions. His practical and systematic approach helps clients evaluate the effectiveness of current behaviors and focus on practical plans of action for change. In the transcript, Dr. Wubbolding works with a client whose recovery from cocaine addiction is complicated by depression. 

<center></center>
<b>Session Transcript</b>
Wubbolding 1: Bill, I'm Bob, and you want to shake hands?
Bill 1: Nice to meet you, Bob.
Wubbolding 2: Nice to meet you. And you were sent here for a little session in reality therapy.
Bill 2: I guess. Reality.
Wubbolding 3: So, what's going on with you?
Bill 3: Well, I've been, like I told you, I've been clean for almost five years now, and I don't really have so many problems with, you know, thinking about doing the drugs again because when I do I just flashback to what it was like when I was out on the street and broke and starving, eating out of garbage cans. Those are all good reminders to keep you clean. But, you know, my daily thing I deal with, been dealing with a lot of depression and fatigue from. . . they told me it was from Hepatitis C which I probably got when I was doing drugs.
Wubbolding 4: Yeah. Well, what would you like to have happen here today as we talk?
Bill 4: I don't know. Maybe figure out where I'm at and maybe give me a path to go forward on.
Wubbolding 5: Okay. Um, what's the big thing in your life? I think you said you kind of feel depressed at times.
Bill 5: Yeah, I'm having problems with depression. I haven't worked in like eight years.
Wubbolding 6: Well, that was my question. How do you know you are depressed?
Bill 6: It takes me like four or five hours to get out of bed, just to do anything. It took me since noon to get in the shower at 6:00 to get out here by 8:00, and I guess that's the fatigue along with the depression, but you know, it seems like they are intertwined.
Wubbolding 7: Sure.
Bill 7: Some days I'll feel good physically, you know, I won't hurt. You know, I have arthritis and degenerative joint disease. I won't hurt, and I'll feel good physically, and you know, if I've been depressed, I'll just feel, you know, it will take me forever to get going. I go out to Hines VA like twice a week, and I'm on methadone maintenance program out there, and I see a good psychiatrist and a psychologist.
Wubbolding 8: So, you are under care already and I get a sense your medical needs are taken care of.
Bill 8: Pretty much, yeah.
Wubbolding 9: It sounds like it.
Bill 9: Yeah, I go outside the VA for my arthritis because they don't want to treat me because I was an addict. They had a problem with giving an addict a new hip replacement. They wanted to give me a hip fusion. They didn't think I was worth giving a new hip to.
Wubbolding 10: Yeah. You were in the military?
Bill 10: Yes. I was in the Marine Corp. for three years.
Wubbolding 11: Were you? Where were you?
Bill 11: I was in Camp Lejeune and Kanoe Bay, Hawaii, and then Triple Army Hospital in Oakland.
Wubbolding 12: So you were quite a number of places.
Bill 12: Yeah.
Wubbolding 13: But the main thing now, is this what you are telling me, is that you're kind of feeling down in the dumps during the day, not working you said?
Bill 13: I haven't worked in a long time.
Wubbolding 14: How long?
Bill 14: A job, an actual job has got to be at least eight years. Even when I was living on the street or when I was bouncing between one friend or another I couldn't keep a job or work a job to save my life to keep me in food, you know. If I couldn't do it then, you know.
Wubbolding 15: So where do you live now?
Bill 15: Um, my brother and I, we bought a condo. My father helped us out with a loan.
Wubbolding 16: Yeah. Is he working?
Bill 16: My father just retired.
Wubbolding 17: How 'bout your brother?
Bill 17: My younger brother, he's a mechanic at a car dealership.
Wubbolding 18: And that's who you live with?
Bill 18: Right.
Wubbolding 19: Okay. He's not married?
Bill 19: No.
Wubbolding 20: Okay. And how old are you?
Bill 20: I'm 43.
Wubbolding 21: 43. Okay
Bill 21: I've got an older brother who teaches and coaches, I'm the second, you know, and I have a sister who's younger. She's got a family and was a housewife, and now she is going to college because the kids are growing up, and then there's my younger brother. And he's a mechanic at a dealership.
Wubbolding 22: So, you know you're depressed because of the fact that you don't get up and do things and work and you're not active. Is that the idea?
Bill 22: It's like, it's real hard to explain. You know, if you don't do these things, you know you're depressed, but you know, when I wake up, I got nothing to look forward to, you know. I wake up and I turn the TV on.
Wubbolding 23: Now that will do it.
Bill 23: You know,
Wubbolding 24: Not having something to look forward to kind of helps you to be depressed.
Bill 24: There is a lot of stuff I can do, but you know, once I do it, I got nothing else to do. And I started volunteering out at the VA, and it got to a point where I couldn't even do that anymore. And that felt good. I did like 140 hours the year before last, but then they cancelled the program where I was volunteering. It was a workshop for psych and drug rehab patients. I used to go in there and help out the guys. You know, talk to them and tell them what it's like being sober and how I got off the drugs and stuff, and that helped me out a lot. That made me feel sort of useful.
Wubbolding 25: It's hard to be depressed when you are doing that kind of stuff.
Bill 25: Well, yeah. Because I get a look at some of the guys who are just going through what I went through, and it was hell back then, and it made me feel good where I was at. It made me feel better being able to tell these guys, you know, how hard it was getting to the point where I was at at that time.
Wubbolding 26: So, this is interesting though, Bill, that you say there were times when you weren't depressed.
Bill 26: Yeah, yeah.
Wubbolding 27: And you were doing something.
Bill 27: Right.
Wubbolding 28: You had relationships with people.
Bill 28: Yeah.
Wubbolding 29: When you are talking to them in kind of a group, and you felt like you were helping them.
Bill 29: Yeah, I did. But, you know, the flip side to that was the next day I would come, I'd be home. I'd stay in bed the whole next day because of pain.
Wubbolding 30: Physical pain?
Bill 30: Right.
Wubbolding 31: What's the doctor say about now the physical pain? Do they say you can't get out and do things?
Bill 31: He said I can do as much as I can do, but you know, I had an addiction. My addiction was pain killers and cocaine. So, we've, the cocaine was gone. But the pain killers, he had to put me on methadone because there was way for me to up my dosage, and I've come from 125 mg. down to 70, and . . .
Wubbolding 32: So you are getting monitored on that, and you are doing some self-monitoring?
Bill 32: They let me go down as much as I want to until I feel uncomfortable, and that's where I stay.
Wubbolding 33: I mean if your brother were sitting here, would your brother say that you are not abusing any drugs, or would he say, oh yeah, he's still abusing drugs.
Bill 33: No, he'd say I'm doing great.
Wubbolding 34: He would say you are doing great, as far as the drugs go.
Bill 34: Right. Drugs and alcohol.
Wubbolding 35: So, you came here hoping maybe this guy's got a little idea about a path. I think you used the word path.
Bill 35: Right. Something I could put in my head that would you know make it easier for me to get up and get going, you know. Maybe a direction that I could travel because my psychiatrist passes it on to my psychologist, and he has a hell of a time just trying to keep me in check out at the VA because these people, you know, the way they treat the veterans out there is awful.
Wubbolding 36: Is it?
Bill 36: Yeah. They refused to treat me. Well, when they did want to treat me, they wanted to give me a hip fusion. They wanted to cripple me. I had to go to an outside hospital, and I was a service connected disabled veteran going to an outside hospital just to get a hip replacement.
Wubbolding 37: So you took charge of that situation.
Bill 37: Pretty much, yeah.
Wubbolding 38: When you took charge of that, Bill, did that do anything for you inside? I mean as far as . . .
Bill 38: It made me angry as hell that they wouldn't do it.
Wubbolding 39: Yeah, but I mean when you took the charge. That would be when they didn't do anything for you.
Bill 39: Right.
Wubbolding 40: When you took charge of it.
Bill 40: It made me feel great that I was getting this done, and you know, I felt like throwing it back in their face and I did. You know, I sent them the bills for the operations.
Wubbolding 41: And then you felt angry and . . .
Bill 41: I'm very hostile. Very hostile.
Wubbolding 42: You weren't depressed at that time were you?
Bill 42: No. Depression turned to anger. Pain turned to anger.
Wubbolding 43: So it is possible, it is possible to leave a little bit of that depression behind. You did it when you went and gave those talks. You did it when you took charge of your operation.
Bill 43: Right. I guess. If you focus on something else it is possible to get around it. But that's the trick.
Wubbolding 44: Maybe that's the kind of way to think about it is how do we get around it. Not how are we going to get rid of it but how to get around it?
Bill 44: Yeah. Well, chemical therapy only goes so far, you know. I have to put it in my head that I'm going to get up and I'm going to do these things, you know, like I don't really go for grand scale type projects.
Wubbolding 45: Well, you made the decision to give up drugs.
Bill 45: Right.
Wubbolding 46: You made the decision to go to this group and do that for the other recovering people.
Bill 46: Right.
Wubbolding 47: You made the decision to take charge of your operation and to say the heck with the VA. You even made the decision to get angry at them.
Bill 47: Oh yeah.
Wubbolding 48: So now what kind of decisions could you continue to make? I mean you're on a path here.
Bill 48: That's where, you know, it gets confusing for me. You know . . .
Wubbolding 49: I mean the decision to stay in bed. Decision to take six hours to take a shower. What about those decisions?
Bill 49: Well, I didn't just sit there for six hours. I was trying to get a power washer running and I was thinking about it.
Wubbolding 50: I understand, but . . .
Bill 50: But I was sweaty and I had to take a shower.
Wubbolding 51: Well, it's a good time.
Bill 51: But, it's not like I just sit there and stare at the ceiling when I do these things. I'm doing stuff, but it's like there is a blank. My, I'm just doing these things to do em.
Wubbolding 52: You said you wake up and you don't have anything to look forward to.
Bill 52: I really don't.
Wubbolding 53: What would you like to wake up to? To look forward to?
Bill 53: I'd like to have a nice bank account so I could wake up and do what I want to do.
Wubbolding 54: Okay.
Bill 54: But, I can't afford to do that because I'm on a small disability payment.
Wubbolding 55: Sure.
Bill 55: I'd like to go out and work, but I can't. I'm lucky if I can do something for myself for two or three hours a day . . .
Wubbolding 56: You can't work at all?
Bill 56: . . . because of this fatigue that I have. I have terrible fatigue, and I've got severe degenerative joint disease. Yeah, I go see a surgeon every year to check on whether I need a hip. I need a shoulder operation. I need two feet operations. I'm just putting them off.
Wubbolding 57: Well, until you get them, I mean. . .
Bill 57: After I get them it's not going to be any better.
Wubbolding 58: Well, okay. Let's talk about until that happens. It just seems to me you've got a pathway here.
Bill 58: Yeah. Taking care of myself.
Wubbolding 59: And the pathway is those action kind of things that you describe which satisfy something inside of you.
Bill 59: Yeah. Taking care of myself and doing the right thing. That satisfies me. That makes me feel good.
Wubbolding 60: You said you wanted to have a job. Did you say that?
Bill 60: I said I'd like to have something to do. I'd never hold a job. I could never hold a job.
Wubbolding 61: Well, not yet.
Bill 61: No.
Wubbolding 62: Never?
Bill 62: You know, who would hire me taking 70 mg. of methadone a day? I take 300 mg. of Zyban, 100 mg. of Elavil.
Wubbolding 63: You've got a thousand reasons for not getting a job.
Bill 63: Who would hire me?
Wubbolding 64: Well, I don't know.
Bill 64: I couldn't even get a job at McDonald's.
Wubbolding 65: Would you be the first person who ever took this medicine?
Bill 65: No.
Wubbolding 66: No. No. I want to ask you this. Do you think this way pretty much? I mean these are the kind of thought you have whenever a job comes up? Who would hire me? Those are the kind of thoughts that you pretty much take up your time?
Bill 66: Well, you know, I don't think about getting a job per se. You know, I try and help my father out when he calls. I do little projects out there, and you know, I'll do a project for him like we were hanging these lattice strips in his basement. It's the criss-cross type board and stuff, and I do four hours work there, and then I'd be in bed the whole next day with pain.
Wubbolding 67: Still?
Bill 67: Yeah. Oh, yeah. That's the problem. If it's not the fatigue . .
Wubbolding 68: Well maybe four hours is too long?
Bill 68: Yeah, but then I'm in bed the whole next day. What kind of a job could I have where I go four hours a day and then take two days off?
Wubbolding 69: Those are part time jobs.
Bill 69: Yeah, I take a part time job. . .
Wubbolding 70: Those are volunteer type jobs.
Bill 70: That's all I'm limited to, volunteer.
Wubbolding 71: But when you are doing these, I don't want to talk you into something, but when you do those things, do you feel any better inside?
Bill 71: Yes, I do. Because I was able to do something that I couldn't do the day before. And, you know, if that's the only kind of gratification I get for the rest of my days, you know, I just gotta find a way to live with that and make myself feel content with that.
Wubbolding 72: You made the decisions and let drugs go. . .
Bill 72: Very hard. It was more painful using than it isn't.
Wubbolding 73: Yeah. But you made that decision.
Bill 73: Yeah, I did. After 25 years of using. It took me a while.
Wubbolding 74: It's a heck of a decision. You proud of that?
Bill 74: Very much.
Wubbolding 75: Darn right.
Bill 75: They say one in 100 makes it, you know, and I seen . . .
Wubbolding 76: Well, let me ask you this. When you look in the mirror what do you see?
Do you see one in 100 that makes it?
Bill 76: Not all the time, no. I should. I'm proud of myself that I had the ability and the courage to stop using and to stop drinking because it is very easy for me to go out and do the stuff. You know, I gave up all the people I knew, and I live in that neighborhood still. I just moved back to it. And I still don't go by these people because I know five years clean ain't nothing. If you get that itch and you're right there, you are going to use.
Wubbolding 77: You are one in 100.
Bill 77: When I'm not using, yeah. But it only takes a second to get back into that situation where you, you know, where you are in a situation, you know. You got money in your pockets. You got free time on your hands. You got nobody looking over your shoulder, and you're with the wrong people, I mean, that's a situation where you are putting yourself in harm's way to use.
Wubbolding 78: Sure. You work the program?
Bill 78: Um, I tried for the first two or three years. I tried.
Wubbolding 79: How 'bout now?
Bill 79: No. I used after the first year and two months. I used. So, I stopped going to the program about six months after that, and I've been clean since. You know with these people talking about, I have a hard time with that. You know the program is great for a lot of people. It didn't help me. I don't like, I feel very uncomfortable socializing.
Wubbolding 80: Well, it takes a little while doesn't it?
Bill 80: These people talk about their last bang and how good it was and this and that. And I go back to that mindset, and I think about the good times I had, and these people are talking about it and talking about it, and it's in my head. By not going to those, I don't think about it. And if I don't think about it, it doesn't bother me. It doesn't bother me, and chances are, I won't go and look for it.
Wubbolding 81: You're not using now.
Bill 81: No, no. Not drinking, not using. I get, I still get urine tested and whenever my counselor wants. No. I could think of a lot of things I could do, but using, it ain't one of 'em anymore. I don't care what goes wrong. You know, that . . .
Wubbolding 82: So now it's a matter of kind of moving to the next level of recovery, isn't it? Going down that pathway another step.
Bill 82: Yeah, I guess so. You could say that.
Wubbolding 83: And when you do things which we talked about before, you're taking those steps. Helping your dad.
Bill 83: Yeah.
Wubbolding 84: Maybe not four hours a day. Maybe two hours a day.
Bill 84: Psychologically that helps me. Yes.
Wubbolding 85: Really?
Bill 85: Yeah. And when I do that, when I'm helpful to others, I feel good. When I can help other people, or when I can do something to help myself I feel good.
Wubbolding 86: In recovery that's called productive living. Doing something productive.
Bill 86: Yeah.
Wubbolding 87: Maybe you're ready now for something, for that next big step. Because recovery isn't just either or. You either use drugs or don't.
Bill 87: Right.
Wubbolding 88: Recovery is kind of like a new life. A pathway. I like how you said that. A pathway.
Bill 88: Yeah.
Wubbolding 89: So the pathway is like, one of the obstacles is feeling depressed.
Bill 89: Yes, it is. Depressed, fatigued because it seems like those two intertwine.
Wubbolding 90: Oh, yeah. Sure they do.
Bill 90: You know, if you're fatigued, you're going to get depressed, and vice versa.
Wubbolding 91: Well, you know depression is like a behavior. And it takes a lot of energy to be depressed.
Bill 91: Yes, it does.
Wubbolding 92: You get tired when you're depressing.
Bill 92: I isolate myself. I don't want to talk to anybody. I always used to like being alone, but I've brought it to new heights now.
Wubbolding 93: Are you alone most of the time, like when your brother is out working?
Bill 93: My brother goes out and he works from 3:00 to 2:00 in the morning.
Wubbolding 94: Oh.
Bill 94: So he comes home at 2:00 in the morning and wants to talk to me.
I don't want nothing to do with it.
Wubbolding 95: It's a little late.
Bill 95: So I wake him up at noon, and he doesn't want anything to do with me. So we don't socialize.
Wubbolding 96: So, that's another thing I think we could talk about is relationships.
Bill 96: Yeah.
Wubbolding 97: Is he the one that's the primary person in your life as far as a relationship?
Bill 97: Yeah, he's the closest to me. I've got one good friend, but he lives up in Wisconsin.
Wubbolding 98: That's a little far.
Bill 98: Yeah. But he comes down once a month or so, and we go out target shooting and stuff like that.
Wubbolding 99: Is he a veteran?
Bill 99: Yes. He is.
Wubbolding 100: Anybody near by?
Bill 100: No. Nobody that I respect enough to be around or feel comfortable with, no.
Wubbolding 101: Must be kind of lonely.
Bill 101: It is. But then since I've been clean, I've started building bridges back with my family, and they've seen all the work I've put in to staying clean. And they are beginning to, well they trust me now, and they respect me somewhat. So I can go, you know, talk to them. Hang around with the kids, you know, babysit for a couple of hours. Stuff like that.
Wubbolding 102: So, you gotta new pathway, and you've gotten some hints here that you've come up with about what's on that pathway. How hard would you like to work at going down this pathway, this new kind of life that might be open to you?
Bill 102: I would like to take it slow. You know, I'm not going to knock myself out with doing anything anymore. My surgeon . . .
Wubbolding 103: You mean you want to get over the depression slowly or quickly?
Bill 103: Well, I'll tell you the truth. Um, some days you have it and some days you don't. It is a very troubling illness.
Wubbolding 104: Well, how hard do you want to work at making those days that you have it fewer?
Bill 104: I think I've been working pretty hard at it. I take my medicine on time. I try and create projects to get me out of my room, you know? And it's a hard illness to get away from.
Wubbolding 105: Sure it is.
Bill 105: And, you know, I don't think anyone has one definitive answer of how to stop it. If they did they'd make millions, you know, but I would like to be able to work through it sometimes when I feel terrible, you know. Just to be able to you know smile on a day like that would be an accomplishment.
Wubbolding 106: Really? Maybe you could look in the mirror and say I'm one in 100.
Bill 106: Yeah, I could do that.
Wubbolding 107: Yeah, you could do that. Can you do that when you're depressed?
Bill 107: I don't but, yeah, I could. I don't think of those things.
Wubbolding 108: I'd like to suggest you do it even if you don't believe it, say it.
Bill 108: I believe it.
Wubbolding 109: There may be days when you doubt it.
Bill 109: No. I know . . .
Wubbolding 110: Ah, so you believe it even on the bad days?
Bill 110: I know how hard it is for drug addicts to stop using, and alcoholics to stop drinking.
Wubbolding 111: This could be a big step Bill is to start doing something like that when you wake up in the morning.
Bill 111: I never . . .
Wubbolding 112: A lot of people think this is trivial. This is not trivial.
Bill 112: No, it's not. Thank you. I never thought about telling myself that.
Wubbolding 113: Well, right now you're telling yourself, "Who would want to hire me? and I'm suggesting maybe it's time to tell yourself something else. Something you already believe which is "I'm one in 100.
Bill 113: Getting a job, that's a different story.
Wubbolding 114: Ah, that's a different story. Can't do everything, you know. Today.
Bill 114: No. Right. If I can get through this day without drinking or using, I've had a good day.
Wubbolding 115: That's a big step. That's right.
Bill 115: If I can get through it and not feel depressed, I've had a better day.
Wubbolding 116: Absolutely, but how would you do that like say tomorrow?
Bill 116: I wake up.
Wubbolding 117: What time?
Bill 117: Well, I usually wake up about between 8:00 and 10:00. I never was a morning person. I've only held two jobs, and they were afternoon shift. I wake up . . .
Wubbolding 118: Well, maybe it's time . . .
Bill 118: . . . open the blinds. That helps.
Wubbolding 119: That does help.
Bill 119: Eat something. Take my medicine.
And try and think of positive things to do that day. Stuff that I can accomplish, not you know, not major goals to accomplish. Simple things that I can accomplish that might make me feel like going on to bigger things.
Wubbolding 120: You said you want to take it kind of slowly, but you do want to deal with this depression and kind of get rid of it.
Bill 120: I have.
Wubbolding 121: What would you be willing to do that would change your routine in the mornings? One thing, you're going to look in the mirror and say that. What else?
Bill 121: I don't know.
Wubbolding 122: Well, you plan your day in the mornings.
Bill 122: I try and plan my day the night before.
Wubbolding 123: The night before? I thought you said the mornings.
Bill 123: I try and think up a project that I can do that will get me out of bed a couple hours after I wake up.
Wubbolding 124: Do you write it down?
Bill 124: Ah, no.
Wubbolding 125: So maybe that's a little change in the routine.
Bill 125: I'm not much for writing things down.
Wubbolding 126: Up until today maybe, but maybe after today you will. You came for help.
Bill 126: That's true. I look at this realistically. There's things that I do and there's things I don't do. I'm not a person that writes things down. I think of things, and I keep that thought in mind.
Wubbolding 127: You sign your name to your checks, don't you?
Bill 127: Yeah.
Wubbolding 128: So you write that.
Bill 128: That's different.
Wubbolding 129: That's what you really want to do. Okay.
Bill 129: That's something I gotta do to survive.
Wubbolding 130: That's right. Well, how else could you vary your routine? In ways that you would want to.
Bill 130: You know, I've been trying to, I moved a treadmill in my bedroom, and so when I get the impulse, I'm staring right at it, I've been working real hard to try and get on that thing. I got weights in my bedroom.
Wubbolding 131: When was the last time you got on the treadmill?
Bill 131: It was last week.
Wubbolding 132: Yeah?
Bill 132: Yeah.
Wubbolding 133: Well, it's very hard to walk on that treadmill and be depressed at the same time.
Bill 133: Oh, yeah, it is.
Wubbolding 134: It's really hard.
Bill 134: I have a TV, I swing in front of me, and I can watch TV while I'm on it.
Wubbolding 135: You can watch TV and you can walk on the treadmill.
Bill 135: To take me somewhere else . . .
Wubbolding 136: How long did you walk the last time?
Bill 136: It was a half hour.
Wubbolding 137: Oh, that long?
Bill 137: Yeah. You know first time I've been working from 20 minutes up. But that, getting motivated to do that, would help me out.
Wubbolding 138: You want a suggestion?
Bill 138: Sure.
Wubbolding 139: Well, my suggestion would be, and I don't know if you'd like this suggestion, to walk even though you're not motivated. If you wait around for motivation to kind of hit you from the outside, you might be waiting a while.
Bill 139: I have been.
Wubbolding 140: What a way to start the day. Man. Walking and feeling good.
Bill 140: Yeah. I think I just started taking this new medicine. Zyban. It's, I've been taking Wellbutrin for a while, but this is time released, and they doubled what I usually took, and the doctor, I have to go see the doctor, and he is going to try and increase it accordingly to . . .
Wubbolding 141: Well, this will add on to the medicine that you take. The activity will help.
Bill 141: I think so.
Wubbolding 142: It will help you.
Bill 142: I think so. I think if I could just lose a little weight I'd gain some energy, and I'd be able to work through my depression a little more, you know. But it's that first boot to get goin'.
Wubbolding 143: It's your boot.
Bill 143: Yeah, I know. I know.
Wubbolding 144: It just means taking that boot and moving it down the pathway a little bit.
Bill 144: One step at a time.
Wubbolding 145: What do you think about those two plans so far? Looking in the mirror, walking on the treadmill, even when you are not motivated. In fact, especially when you are not motivated.
Bill 145: That's hard.
Wubbolding 146: Oh, this is not going to be easy.
Bill 146: No.
Wubbolding 147: Believe me, this is not going to be easy.
It's easier to wait around.
Bill 147: Yeah. It is. I'm a professional time waster.
Wubbolding 148: Well, that's okay.
Bill 148: It's what I do.
Wubbolding 149: Well, how 'bout wasting just a little bit less time. You don't have to make 180 degree turn here. Just two degrees, then three.
Bill 149: I've been trying.
Wubbolding 150: You've been doing a terrific job, let me tell you I mean, I told you. I really believe that what you said. I mean anybody that's kicked a drug habit has made a gigantic change in his life.
Bill 150: And then you face a whole new set of problems.
Wubbolding 151: Oh, yeah. But you've been straight for, what, five, what did you say?
Bill 151: Going on five years.
Wubbolding 152: Five years. What's a third thing you would be willing to do. Things usually come in threes.
Bill 152: I don't think there is a third thing. Two things is pushing it.
Wubbolding 153: Really? Two things is pushing it. There might be a third thing that wouldn't be too much. I mean you're looking in the mirror saying this. That's only going to take you a couple of seconds.
Bill 153: Right.
Wubbolding 154: Walking on the treadmill, 20 minutes or maybe less. It depends on you.
Bill 154: I'm thinking about my day, and . . .
Wubbolding 155: Yeah. Writing something down is out. Out of the question. You don't want to do that.
Bill 155: No, I've got papers and magazines all over. I'd, it would just be another piece of paper lying around.
Wubbolding 156: Alright. So that was my suggestion. Not a good one. Now why don't you come up with one.
Bill 156: I can't. I'm drawing a blank.
Wubbolding 157: A third, some kind of third variation in your morning routine.
Bill 157: I'm drawing a blank.
Wubbolding 158: I mean do you have some friend you could call? How 'bout your dad?
Bill 158: Well, he works til like 1:00 in the afternoon most days.
Wubbolding 159: Does he?
Bill 159: He is semi-retired.
Wubbolding 160: Is he?
Bill 160: Yeah. But. . .
Wubbolding 161: Any friends in the neighborhood?
Bill 161: Ah, no. No.
Wubbolding 162: Do you have any hobbies? I forgot to ask you that.
Bill 162: Yeah, I do.
Wubbolding 163: What do you do?
Bill 163: I used to parachute, but now I go out and target shoot.
Wubbolding 164: Yeah. Oh, yeah you did mention that, yeah. That's a little tough to do that everyday.
Bill 164: It's expensive. But, I work on keeping my weapons clean, and I really, that's a dangerous combination, guns and depression. But believe me I've got good respect for 'em.
Wubbolding 165: Do you?
Bill 165: Yeah. I had a guy shoot me in the chest, and I got a good respect for them.
Wubbolding 166: So you don't think about using it on yourself or anything?
Bill 166: No, no. No, I when I got out of the service I had problems, issues with suicidal ideas and such, you know. I've tried four times.
Wubbolding 167: Did you?
Bill 167: Yeah.
Wubbolding 168: Lately?
Bill 168: No. Not since before I got clean. It's something I think I grew out of and my mind has gone around.
Wubbolding 169: There is another decision you've made. To stay alive.
Bill 169: Yeah. That's a major one.
Wubbolding 170: That's a major one. You've made about four or five major decisions that we've talked about Bill.
Bill 170: In a normal person's life, that's you know, those are just natural things that come to people. You know. That's things people take for granted.
Wubbolding 171: Yeah, but you are one out of 100. You said that.
Bill 171: I am.
Wubbolding 172: Do you think those two things that you came up with, you think those two things would be sufficient to do?
Bill 172: Yeah.
Wubbolding 173: Okay. I'd like to ask you about something else. Not to ask you to do anything, but just to talk about.
Are you, what about the relationships with other people? We talked a little bit about this, but I mean, is there any relationship that you would like to work on and improve? Not now. I'm not going to suggest you do anything, but just anything that could be improved in the future? Your brother, your dad?
Bill 173: I think I'm doing pretty good with the relationships I've, the relationships I've started and started to continue to rebuild.
Wubbolding 174: Do you have a friend outside of the family?
Bill 174: Just one. Just one. It's hard finding people nowadays who...uh... interested in the same things I'm interested in that don't use alcohol or drugs.
Wubbolding 175: No you only meet them at meetings.
Bill 175: And I have a hard time with that. I'd rather not go to meetings and not use than meet people and go there and be totally drained trying to put down cravings and stuff.
Wubbolding 176: What about a romantic relationship with somebody?
Bill 176: It hasn't come up. You know, I have a hard enough time getting out of bed. Do you think I have . . .
Wubbolding 177: Well, I'm just asking.
Bill 177: If I had a woman, trying to take, trying to establish a relationship takes a lot of energy, and I just don't have it right now.
Wubbolding 178: Well, not yet. Not yet. Would you be interested in that down the road?
Bill 178: Ah, yeah. Yeah, I would. But first things first.
Wubbolding 179: Sure. I understand. There is no rush.
Bill 179: No. I got the whole rest of my life.
Wubbolding 180: You are 42?
Bill 180: 43.
Wubbolding 181: 43, you're probably going to live another 40 years.
Bill 181: I don't know about that.
Wubbolding 182: If things go the way they usually go. Who knows?
Bill 182: I'm lucky to live this long. Really.
Wubbolding 183: Yeah, yeah. Well, are you willing to do those two things?
Bill 183: Yeah.
Wubbolding 184: Maybe just think about them. Don't give up on a relationship with a woman.
Bill 184: You know, usually when you aren't looking for it, that's when it happens.
Wubbolding 185: That's true. That's very true.
Bill 185: So, I haven't been looking for it.
Wubbolding 186: That's the way it happened with me.
Bill 186: And usually you know a good woman could turn me around. That would give me a relationship, a new relationship would give me a sense of purpose. It probably would tear up my gut with nervousness, but there's a lot of things that I'd like to do, but you know, I don't think right now is a good time for it. In my life right now it's a good time for getting well, getting my head back together. And you know you can only do one thing at a time.
Wubbolding 187: That's right.
Bill 187: Anything else would probably send me backwards.
Wubbolding 188: Well I hope you don't give up on it.
Bill 188: No, no. I do have a positive outlook even though I get depressed. There's good things out there, and you can have 'em. All you gotta do it strive to get 'em.
Wubbolding 189: Well, you are going to strive. You said you would do a couple of things.
Bill 189: I'm trying.
Wubbolding 190: Firm commitment?
Bill 190: I'll try.
Wubbolding 191: Alright. Sounds good.
Bill 191: Yeah.
Wubbolding 192: Who knows? Some day you might meet that woman. It happened to me that way. When I was least expecting it I met somebody and six months later we were married. Man, I didn't know what hit me.
Bill 192: I'll bet you didn't.
Wubbolding 193: Okay. Well, thanks a lot Bill for coming, and it's nice talking to you, and I wish you the best.
Bill 193: Thank you. I appreciate it.
