TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:

PATIENT: (tape begins abruptly) I don't know what I was thinking, but I guess it's no great loss. It's...then again, it is because then I have to take a Humanities course in something that I'm not interested in, which is a lot of work in the long run.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: In any subject.
PATIENT: I don't, suddenly I'm getting this feeling that just-I don't know, while things haven't been exactly unpleasant for me in the last few weeks, it was very, very empty-like that. I don't know. Nothing's happening, it's just flat. Eventually, I think-if it keeps on like this it's going to get very, very boring. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I mean, no turbulence at all-just smooth.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It's boring.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you mean it's not even-like in a way it's just flat.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's just going along and like, yeah, there isn't anything bad happening but there isn't anything good happening either. There is no kind of breaks or excitement in your life.
PATIENT: Well, I don't even know if it needs to be excitement-if I-if I had a routine, if I liked the situation I was in, that would be all right even if it wasn't exciting.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: But it just seems to go on...
COUNSELOR: You are bothered...
PATIENT: ...every day you get up and you sort of bore your way through the day. And-with nothing stimulating kind of thing. [2:10]
COUNSELOR: Like just being very routine in everything.
PATIENT: Yeah, not interesting. You know, routineness and boredomness is acceptable under certain circumstances (inaudible 2:37) you know, like in a job. I could just sort of tell myself that it-that it's only eight hours of the day, I still have sixteen and besides which they're giving me twenty dollars for those eight hours.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: But this-it's my whole life that's just (inaudible 3:01).
COUNSELOR: There's no break from it. 
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: And you can't kind of say to yourself "Well, this will be over."
PATIENT: Yeah. I would just really like to be able to sit down and concentrate on something. At this point it would be on French. You know, I really want to be able to sit down and get into it and not think about getting something to move along or listen to the radio. I'd like to be able to do it for a few hours at a time.
COUNSELOR: Just to get really involved in something.
PATIENT: Yeah, Um Hm.
COUNSELOR: When you say for a few hours at a time, does that mean... What does it mean? You can't do that at all now or you can't do it for what kind of time?
PATIENT: Well, I can't do it at all. I haven't yet. I'm convinced that I will do it, you know, get into it some but I just don't know whether it's-I don't think I'm really going to be getting into it. It's more like it's going to be a chore that I'm going to have to constantly force myself to keep at rather than getting into it and just doing it.
COUNSELOR: It's going to keep on being a struggle.
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, I don't doubt that I'll start it sometimes, but...
COUNSELOR: But it's the way that you're going to do it once you're into it that's bothering you. 
PATIENT: That's-that's part of it. You know-plus I just want to get into it now, sort of (inaudible 5:26).
COUNSELOR: And instead what's happening?
PATIENT: I don't know, I keep on coming up with little reasons why I don't have to start it immediately.
COUNSELOR: Umm.
PATIENT: You know, just keep on pushing it back. [5:43]
COUNSELOR: You want to get it done, you say, but you keep on finding excuses not to.
PATIENT: Um Hm. Just like that. Mostly I just think in my mind not to do it. 
COUNSELOR: How's that?
PATIENT: Well, I make up my mind some-some way out-you know like-I mean like really make up my mind to say "Well, I'm not going to do this." Then after that, if I say "Well, why don't you do it?" I can just give myself the reason well, it's too late. I've made up my mind as if it were actually too late.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: As if it were no longer within my control.
COUNSELOR: Does that work?
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, I can just say with that-well-it works in the sense like whenever I make up my mind to get an (R ph 7:03) or something like that taken off... Well, you know, like really make up my mind and give myself all these good reasons why I can't-I mean why I shouldn't take the R, but I just say well, my mind is made up and no more thinking about it because I've been through all that before. [7:23]
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And so it takes all the pressure off.
COUNSELOR: It keeps you from having to go over that thing and keep on making a choice in your mind.
PATIENT: Um Hm.
COUNSELOR: You keep on telling yourself the same thing.
PATIENT: Right. I'm just-I go over it once and...
COUNSELOR: ...and close that book.
PATIENT: Yeah. My attitude here today is-I just don't feel good with this.
COUNSELOR: You don't feel good, what do you mean?
PATIENT: Well I just sort of feel like coming here and talking and getting out.
COUNSELOR: Because of what?
PATIENT: I don't feel good.
COUNSELOR: I mean is it uncomfortable? Is it-is it just feeling awkward or preoccupied about other things or what?
PATIENT: I'm feeling awkward and preoccupied and...
COUNSELOR: Preoccupied with?
PATIENT: Worrying about school. [8:27]
COUNSELOR: Mmm.
PATIENT: I don't know. I just sort of-rather than like-than struggle with those problems here, I'd just sort of rather come here with the idea that I'm just going to come in here and talk too much about anything and I really don't care at all. Just until my time is up and can get out.
COUNSELOR: What's the point?
PATIENT: Well, I feel that I had an appointment, so I've had to...
COUNSELOR: But you don't really want to be here. You don't really want to be talking about anything?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Or there isn't anything that you do really want to be talking about here today?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's probably it.
COUNSELOR: Probably?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I don't know, I'm just feeling in an ugly mood right now. I'm in a pretty ugly mood sort of thing.
COUNSELOR: Is that...
PATIENT: I could go home and go to sleep or take a bath or something.
COUNSELOR: You mean like this is a chore that you don't...
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible 9:53).
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I don't know, I may have been developing this attitude of (inaudible 10:06) all along. This may not be just, you know, a quirk.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: How come you think that?
PATIENT: Why would I think what? That it might have been developing?
COUNSELOR: Well, that it might have been developing.
PATIENT: I don't accept the idea of a quirk, so I guess-you know, like I don't accept that it would have been acceptable for me to call up and say "I don't feel like coming in today, I'll see you Monday."
COUNSELOR: Oh, it would have been-if you hadn't called-if you'd called more than five minutes in advance or something like that.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: It would have been.
PATIENT: What do you mean, if I'd called?
COUNSELOR: Well, like I-I mean-of course if you'd called five minutes in advance and you said you didn't want to come I'd say okay. I would mind it more then because it would be more of an inconvenience because I would have been expecting you but to me that seems okay to do that. You-is it that you didn't know that or you don't really want to take advantage of that option? [11:17]
PATIENT: I didn't really know it and I don't know how much I accept that option as being real.
COUNSELOR: Real?
PATIENT: You know, just how acceptable is it? Like suppose today I would have said that well, why don't I skip next Monday and next Thursday and sort of give me a little rest or something...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I don't know that I really see that as acceptable, sort of because I have a schedule set up...
COUNSELOR: It's acceptable to me.
PATIENT: ...and I'm always thinking in terms of schedules. Like I have class schedules and I have a schedule here.
COUNSELOR: You have a schedule here and if you break the schedule here then?
PATIENT: It's like missing a class or something. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: And what is it that that is saying?
PATIENT: About missing class?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I mean what is it the same thing? It's bad? The (inaudible 12:34) situation?
PATIENT: Well just sort of undertaking or an obligation or...I don't know. There's-there's sort of a contract between students and the teacher for everybody to show up, because if everybody just missed all the time, your class would slowly dissolve.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Or it might be more appropriate to call it a seminar-something like where you just have maybe eight people and a teacher or something. A small group where absence isn't a big deal.
COUNSELOR: You've got some kind of obligation to the other person, therefore...
PATIENT: I don't know, I just sort of feel like four fifteen Thursday is part of the schedule...
COUNSELOR: Yeah...
PATIENT: ...and-suppose I don't feel like coming here. That doesn't mean you don't. It's sort of like-it's sort of inconveniencing you in a way and, I don't know, it doesn't seem proper or something.
COUNSELOR: What doesn't seem proper?
PATIENT: I don't know. If it had been established on the basis of-of less than a schedule. By now I've really gotten used to the idea of nine o'clock and four fifteen.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. You mean-
PATIENT: If it had been established like somewhat of a more flexible arrangement instead like-I don't know-it just seemed like...
COUNSELOR: Those were the only two possibilities it seemed?
PATIENT: Well, not only were they the only two possibilities, but it was sort of like-we sort of have to keep the thing moving. Like you say you normally see people twice a week and if-if I'd only wanted to come once a week it sort of would have obligated you to twice as much time in a way. Like a span-twenty sessions or ten.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And it goes to ten or it goes to twenty, so... So I sort of feel like missing these things-
COUNSELOR: You mean like when I said that choice that was a choice that might have worked for compressing the amount of time it took even though that's more time for you?
PATIENT: Well, not necessarily the compressing but at least planning. I don't know...
COUNSELOR: And if you had not wanted that or if you broke that up at all then it's like what? Going against what you think I wanted? [16:18]
PATIENT: I don't know-not only you but the whole organization and structure. You know, they probably have plans for everything somewhere and...
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) I don't think so (laughs) sorry.
PATIENT: And well, I know they must have some sort of plans because when I signed up they said I could only, you know, have twenty sessions.
COUNSELOR: If you want to transfer college?
PATIENT: Right. So I figure there is a time that is entering into it somehow and that by missing one here it sort of makes the whole thing longer and after the ten weeks, assuming two sessions a week, it sort of starts pushing into other things that you might have planned after those ten weeks. I don't know, it's sort of like you're doing me a favor and for me to say I don't feel like going today is sort of like looking - looking...I don't know...
COUNSELOR: Ungrateful? [17:53]
PATIENT: Yeah, sort of like looking a gift horse in the mouth or something. Like ungrateful. An ungrateful thing to do.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It's kind of a funny way to look at this (inaudible 18:10).
COUNSELOR: So that's how it fits like your view?
PATIENT: That's the choice. Yeah, I just think it's the way I've been brought up.
COUNSELOR: Is that...
PATIENT: If someone's doing-more or less doing you a favor-or you keep appointments. And I just sort of understood that I had an appointment...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [18:31]
PATIENT: ...and unless you really can't, that you should keep them. And not wanting to is not really can't. You know, if you make an appointment with a dentist and you just don't want to go that day-it was nice or something like that outside, not wanting to is not an acceptable reason. Or at least isn't with my parents.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It isn't (inaudible 19:01) because that's the way I was brought up (inaudible 19:08). So that's how I view this.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's just that in certain ways I see it. I think you bring up a lot of issues. There are some differences, though, like not going to the dentist because it's a nice day. Like-well I'm real surprised to hear you say that it didn't even seem like an option to you to say no, that you didn't want to come Monday. That kind of thinking's very clear to me and that doesn't bother me at all, in fact. But the other thing that is different about therapy, in my point of view, is that it doesn't make sense. Therapy is different from the dentist in that the dentist can do the things to your teeth and things where you want them done or not, unless you're struggling (laughs) physically.
PATIENT: Well...
COUNSELOR: But it's like-he can do different things-but you know, generally he can do it to you. But therapy isn't a thing like you're lenient to someone in my eyes. And it doesn't make any kind of sense coming in just kind of treading water-I mean if it seems to you like it's just a day when all you're going to be able to do is tread water.
PATIENT: Um Hm.
COUNSELOR: Now that raises an issue on the other side, of course, like if it's-on the other hand, if someone has to work on getting out and having more (inaudible 20:59) sometimes that's the thing to do. But not always.
PATIENT: Hmm. I don't know, it's just...
COUNSELOR: What do you think?
PATIENT: Well, I was thinking it's like buying or going to see some guy down the Loop somewhere in this old kind of office and if you go in there he says "I'm going to see you every Friday afternoon at 3:00", I'll bet you even if you call him up a month in advance and tell him "I don't want this (chuckles) (inaudible 21:35)...
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: ...he's going to go-start playing a stereo and say "Well, you're going to have to pay anyhow."
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Well, do you like that or not?
PATIENT: Do I like what?
COUNSELOR: That old paneled office view things...
PATIENT: Umm...
COUNSELOR: ...Would you enjoy that?
PATIENT: No! But that's just-
COUNSELOR: The way its supposed to be.
PATIENT: That's just sort of the way I'm used to things being.
COUNSELOR: That's the way it's supposed to be.
PATIENT: No, that's the way I'm used to things being.
COUNSELOR: What does that mean to you, that it's familiar?
PATIENT: I'm not making the judgment. It's familiar, that's the way the system is and I've sort of adapted to that type of system.
COUNSELOR: So if I tell you that that system that assuming that system, isn't the system that I assume, what does that do? How do you react to that? [22:21]
PATIENT: Well, it's nice. I don't know-I can't just throw it out, though.
COUNSELOR: You can't just throw it out?
PATIENT: Throw out the old system.
COUNSELOR: You can't just stop acting on it.
PATIENT: Right. It-it would like take that-an effort on my part and-you know, there's a first step to be made. Like supposing once I did something and doing the first thing in your system that would differ from what I do in the other system. The first thing is the hardest, I think...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: ...and then after that I might be able to integrate it.
COUNSELOR: Well, not being able to it-is that a matter of just feeling like it's not done, it's just not done? Or is it worrying whether I'm-also worrying about whether I'm telling the truth (inaudible 23:27).
PATIENT: Well, if you would be pissed off it would only be because it's not done, you know? 
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess I'm...
PATIENT: You know, like you're part of the thing-the real world and everything, too and in the real world it's just not done.
COUNSELOR: Well, actually what I meant was do you believe me when I say actually, certainly-at least arrangements as kinds of things like that are not a hassle to me.
PATIENT: Not entirely. Because if I were in your shoes I think that would be (inaudible 24:12) unless, I don't know...
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: I could sort of see someone having kind of a-I-I-
COUNSELOR: Maybe it's fairer to say a very slight hassle. I mean, sure, every time you have to change a little thing, in a way it disarrays things. I mean, compared to the other things to sit there and say you're in favor of...
PATIENT: Um Hm. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What I'm saying, it doesn't seem like it counts for much. 
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: That hassle is very slight compared to the advantage (inaudible 24:53).
PATIENT: Oh, oh, okay.
COUNSELOR: But you're reluctant about testing that particular norm whether it's really there or not. Like you don't know if you want to strain our relationship in that way. 
PATIENT: Hmm. No, I was just thinking sort of I can conceive of a person being of such an (issue ph 25:29) or something that you could call them up maybe a quarter after four and say, "You know, I don't fee like coming in today." And that person would say "Okay, fine" and it wouldn't bother them at all. I mean, I can sort of construct that sort of person in my mind. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And I could sort of see how it could be-could happen. But I don't think that could ever be me. Or at least...
COUNSELOR: You couldn't the person that says "Okay, fine"?
PATIENT: I couldn't be that.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Maybe I could, but I'm most-I'm not that person now.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm
PATIENT: And I think it would be a swell thing to be.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: You know, just to take everything-my feelings about it-and not get bothered by it. [26:21]
COUNSELOR: Well there are all these medium levels in-between, too. Like the kind of level I'm talking about where something might be some kind of slight hassle, but there are other things on the other side, so it definitely adds up to, you know, feeling it's okay. But do you see those middle alternatives? Is that any type of anything you'd be willing to risk or is it just that you...?
PATIENT: I think they're a good idea. I don't which ones you mean by (inaudible 27:00)...
COUNSELOR: Like in a way-like if you can conceive of the person who would say "Okay, fine" and mean it and all they would feel is okay, fine,-with them it wouldn't be a hassle to call them up and say "I don't want to come in." Not only would it not be a hassle, in terms of that, but maybe you wouldn't feel funny about it. I don't know. What about to the-there are a lot of ranges in between saying "No, you can't come into my oak-paneled office again" and saying "It's okay, fine."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And...see, so in a way, I'm saying can you imagine yourself taking a risk on something like that. Or if you weren't sure that it would be absolutely okay, fine for the person. Can you imagine?
PATIENT: Well, it all depends on where think it is. If I think it's very likely that its going to be screwing up the oak panel situation, I don't know that I'd take the risk.
COUNSELOR: What about mixtures, like...?
PATIENT: Well, yeah, that's what I'm talking about-a mixture that had mostly oak panel situation. I sort of need maybe more of an idea...
COUNSELOR: Whereas that person would come down hard on you. Is that what it would mean? They'd say "No, you can't do that? Or shame you in a way?
PATIENT: Yeah, shame me. Ah, you ingrate, you know. Now I've got to listen to his boring talk for an hour and I only gave twenty-five dollars for this. You know, I'm tired. He could have heard seven people before.
COUNSELOR: You should be glad he's not coming, then. What do you mean?
PATIENT: You know, that guy is making like six hundred dollars a day or something.
COUNSELOR: I see. Well, what do you want to say to that person? Or those type people? What's your...?
PATIENT: Umm...
COUNSELOR: If they say that to you? [29:18]
PATIENT: I don't know. It depends on what made me-what would motivate me to go to them and what I would say in that situation. If I was really desperate, I might think he was right and say "Boy, have I really overstepped my bounds in asking for this" but in another way I could discuss how I'm feeling and (inaudible 30:06) (bartended ph 30:13) or something like that.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Yeah. So it's-well like here, I guess you're operating on the notion maybe I'm going to react like that or some like that. Is that person? But there's a chance that I'm not-some type of chance...
PATIENT: Yeah...
COUNSELOR: ...that you're out of line to take...
PATIENT: That's the way I've been out there before.
COUNSELOR: But you aren't willing to find-to take-
PATIENT: Well, I haven't been because I haven't talked about this.
COUNSELOR: Well, what would you want-
PATIENT: I just sort of assumed until I'm told otherwise that I'm operating in this system that I've been brought up in.
COUNSELOR: And how do you feel about that? That assumed system? Say, back in school?
PATIENT: Well, I...
COUNSELOR: Does that seem okay to you? Does it bother you slightly?
PATIENT: It bothers me quite a bit but there's nothing to do about it. It's just nine out of every ten people operate in this... And...
COUNSELOR: What bothers you about it is what?
PATIENT: It doesn't-it doesn't take it quite-bureaucratize or something like that-it doesn't take people into account. Because people just-you know-it makes their lives consistent. 
COUNSELOR: Mmm. Like you're not allowed to say-you start thinking-your mood isn't taken into account. Whether you want to come today isn't taken into account in that. Those things don't matter. There's like-there's a general rule.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Period. [32:16]
PATIENT: Yes. It's sort of a-a simple view, you know, making it a general rule. Sort of a simple view of how things work. 
COUNSELOR: Meaning a kind of stupid view. Over-simple.
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, it's like making a model of some system or something. The more complex your model is, the more accurately it predicts things. That would just be very, very coarse predictions. You know, very rough. 
COUNSELOR: Well, so how does it seem to you when you think you have enough-a kind of coarse prediction just laid on you. A coarse model or just a general...
PATIENT: I don't see any reason to-I don't see where it would help to make a big fuss and I can't change it.
COUNSELOR: No, well, okay, so there's a thing where you think it's not worth bothering but do you resent it or anything?
PATIENT: Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: I mean, that crude system that doesn't take you into account?
PATIENT: Sure, yeah, I resent it and it frustrates me and I believe that there's nothing I can do to make it any different. I wouldn't try-I wouldn't try to change it.
COUNSELOR: Wouldn't try to change anything?
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't try to change anything on the system, you know, they're just too big.
COUNSELOR: Now are you talking about the system in general, or like, this therapy?
PATIENT: Well, I was talking about the system that-I'm talking about at least the aspect of a big system. Like you have to go to appointments.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Like the social aspect of things. How it's structured socially. 
PATIENT: No, I don't think that's it, either.
COUNSELOR: Oh, what do you mean?
PATIENT: (inaudible 34:34) but it's not-not therapy, it's just the way the system of how social relations are conducted in this country-this world of Western society.
COUNSELOR: Is that...
PATIENT: Well, the part that I'm talking about essentially, the whole point.
COUNSELOR: Period. Like cancellations aren't allowed.
PATIENT: Only in case of emergency and...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And I just-I don't like the way that's handled...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: ...(inaudible 35:47). You know, I can't do anything about it or you can't.
COUNSELOR: And the way it's handled is what? If you did something like try to cancel when-an appointment when there wasn't a dire emergency, what is it-what is the thing that keeps you from doing that? Like how are the consequences that you see? [36:10]
PATIENT: Oh-I-just violating some sort of tacit agreement, something like that.
COUNSELOR: And therefore?
PATIENT: I don't, probably more of a personal-something like that-just not fitting.
COUNSELOR: Not (inaudible 36:56).
PATIENT: Not (inaudible 36:57)ing me and not belonging. You know...sort of like if the person who I treated like that would ever be in a position to help me he'd say "Oh, no, because this guy abused-took advantage of my goodwill before" or something. I don't know. I think this usually falls down.
COUNSELOR: Falls down on what?
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm getting a little (inaudible 37:46) that you're protecting what I'm talking about.
COUNSELOR: Well, I was going to say-ask you if that's the kind of thing that you think about specifically in relation to me. This therapy and not wanting to come. But that if you didn't, then I'd refuse you (inaudible 38:04). Not only would I be saddened...
PATIENT: It could be, it could be, it could be like that you'd resent it and it would just-I think like the... There are a lot of questions in your mind or doubts in your mind or something like that as to what I'm doing here. I somehow don't feel quite like I fit in therapy. 
COUNSELOR: I guess that isn't just that you don't feel comfortable, but something about how you think you're being viewed.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Which is...
PATIENT: Well, you know, what place do I have here. It's sort of like keeping someone here who really belongs here who's down there on the waiting list out.
COUNSELOR: Now is that something that you think? Or is that something you think I think?
PATIENT: I think I think it. And because I think it, I think you think it.
COUNSELOR: You know, you have your doubts about whether you have any kind of right to be here?
PATIENT: Yeah, that sounds pretty close-whether I have a right to be here and since it's not clear to me at all that I have any right to be here and if it's not clear to me I don't see how you would be aware that I have a right to be here. I just sort of think that you're...
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: I don't know....
COUNSELOR: Tell what you mean a little more about a right and then (inaudible 40:48) to answer that. 
PATIENT: Well, you know, just sort of that I don't belong here. Whatever I'm looking for is not to be found in counseling or maybe-maybe I shouldn't be looking for anything, see...
COUNSELOR: Maybe your life is about the best you can expect. Is that what you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. Maybe there's nothing abnormal about it or-
COUNSELOR: If you really believed that, would it make a difference to how you feel about doing this?
PATIENT: If I really believed it?
COUNSELOR: But would you still feel unhappy and like you were missing something? [41:47]
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean-I would still feel like I was missing something in my life. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Well, you know, like there are people-you know, my girlfriend, she says something about how I don't belong here, I don't need it. I think that's what she said.
COUNSELOR: What does she mean?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: What do you think she means?
PATIENT: I'm not neurotic or whatever, you know-I just don't need it.
COUNSELOR: No, no, I really don't know what that means.
PATIENT: Counseling Center is for people who have psychological problems or something.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And I don't need it. I don't know. I was just going to say she-she was talking to someone I know and this other person said-was surprised that I was coming here and she said something like "Oh, he's one of the sanest people I know."
COUNSELOR: How did you feel about that?
PATIENT: I just felt that she didn't know what she was talking about, saying that I was one of the sanest people she knew. Either that or she found all the crazy friends. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm.[43:51]
PATIENT: You know, because..
COUNSELOR: You don't really feel that put together inside?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't. I don't know, she-
COUNSELOR: See-
PATIENT: It really didn't bother me when she said that because I knew her first year and then she left the city for a few years so she really didn't have a basis for saying that. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It was probably more-more of-you mentioned reverse (inaudible 44:29) she carried over something like that. Just being not really composed or, you know...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. A kind of (inaudible 44:40).
PATIENT: And you know, particularly, it was probably formed three years ago and just sort of carried along for three years. 
COUNSELOR: And very rigid.
PATIENT: Without changing because I wasn't around to change it. So things like that and my own doubts-and my parents say "Yeah, you're all right. There's nothing wrong with you."
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Just all really-and the fact that I seem to have such a difficult time because I really feel that I strain a lot here.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: All lead me to believe that maybe I don't belong here and-I don't know. It's just sort of-
COUNSELOR: You're just sort of what?
PATIENT: Doing it out of boredom or something. [45:46]
COUNSELOR: You mean it's a different thing than sitting in the apartment kind of boredom?
PATIENT: Well different than sitting in the apartment. It's just out of a big boredom with everything.
COUNSELOR: And what is it that you see about wrong with that-see wrong with that motive?
PATIENT: Coming here because I'm bored?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I don't consider that a psychological problem or something like that. And this place is here-this place is here for people with psychological problems and it doesn't-I don't think you attempt to try to solve them for them. Like this is the wrong place to come looking for...
COUNSELOR: What kind of level of solution do you see as being a solution for that?
PATIENT: To boredom?
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: What do you mean what kind of level?
COUNSELOR: Well, like...
PATIENT: You mean like accepting it or accepting it is one kind of solution or...?
COUNSELOR: No. I mean...
PATIENT: ...doing something you're really interested in is another kind?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You say that it's not a psychological problem. Well, what is it in your mind?
PATIENT: It seems like a condition of life sort of. It's a-it's something that would be solved by changing the circumstances of my life.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Like moving from New York to (inaudible 47:50).
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) Now I feel like I'm getting lost. Maybe I should try to formulate what I think about this thing. If you think-do you think you kind of have it out-the way it's a concern for you?
PATIENT: Having what?
COUNSELOR: Having that (ph cord 48:08).
PATIENT: Having the cord. I don't know. That's kind of (inaudible 48:19).
COUNSELOR: Okay. I've got to try to think because we've got six different things that... And this isn't going to be a super (inaudible .48:44) so you should stop me when you don't understand.
 One thing, anyway, is that-I guess I really don't see it the way you do. Like, it doesn't even-this thing that therapy and rights and deserving, all that-I think how I see it or what I do-what I do is not kind of sort whether there are unhealthy things in a person's head as opposed to healthy ones and see what the ratio is and come out with a decision. (inaudible 49:26) I don't make that kind of assessment. What I do-and in a way, I think that's what you're doing to yourself. You're trying to check-I mean is this reasonable? Are there more reasonable about the way I'm acting that normally (inaudible 49:44). It could add up to a ratio such that I shouldn't be here... 
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...or not. What I am going from-in a way, that's not exactly a question I ask myself, I guess. I guess I take your definition of yourself that way. I take your saying that it doesn't feel that way to you.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: That is doesn't feel to you like you're all together put together as legitimate, you know?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And go from there. What I do from there isn't say-is to-okay, no-so that's that. Do you understand that?
PATIENT: I think I understand what you're saying but I don't know what I really believe because I don't think like this is a place for people to come when they're unhappy, you know...
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: ...or that I sort of feel
COUNSELOR: Well, it's hard to say why else people come to therapy. I mean, it's hard to say. It's hard to say what else people that come to therapy have in general between all of them. That it even adds up. That's...[51:28]
PATIENT: I'm just sort of sick of this tape recorder going now and how like sometimes if there always tape recorders going when people have therapy, you get a bunch of tapes like from a psychological viewpoint, interesting sessions, you know? And then there are probably those sessions which from a psychological viewpoint are absolutely nothing and I think that all of our session just-from a psychological viewpoint-just are very-there's nothing psych-no psychology in them, it's just...
COUNSELOR: What do you mean by psychology?
PATIENT: I don't know. Well you...
COUNSELOR: See, that I don't-that...
PATIENT: Somebody's theories, you know, about the way the human mind functions. I don't care which theories you use, just some sort of-not hypothesis but, you know, structure or system or something that you're working under. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You mean me or you?
PATIENT: You. Any therapist. I don't mean that they all-I mean just the fact that they do therapy is some sort of structure, science...
COUNSELOR: Science?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's...
COUNSELOR: And?
PATIENT: And its own values and things like that. And I just think that I sort of-I understand what you're saying when say that it's like stuck being unhappy is one thing all the people who come to therapy have in common. But I sort of don't accept that as a necessarily sufficient reason for being here. It's...
COUNSELOR: Like...
PATIENT: ...not by itself. They all have it in common but it's not really...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well. It's hard for me to talk about that question. Which, I guess, is something like who do I consider is worth having therapy. Are you eligible for therapy? Because I've never done it that way. I've never really operated with that kind of criterion. With a criterion like that, like...
PATIENT: I just feel as though there were criterion applied to me when I came here. My first interview was John (inaudible 54:51) or something like that. If I had said certain things or behaved in certain ways I might have gotten a therapist sooner or I might have...
COUNSELOR: If you had acted what?
PATIENT: Crazy or whatever. Whatever that is. Or if my problems had been of a different nature like if probably-I don't know-I don't know how it was done, but I'm just assuming that it effected my assignment to a therapist. 
COUNSELOR: So that the fact-so you're kind of thinking well the fact that you had to wait for two months or so you had to wait is a judgment that...
PATIENT: No, not-partially it's my assignment to you as opposed to-I don't know much about your background, but as opposed to-I don't know-some fifty-year old gray-haired man with a beard.
COUNSELOR: I'll tell you one reason you didn't get assigned to a fifty-year old gray-haired man with a beard is that there isn't one at the Counseling Center (chuckles).
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: But what you mean...
PATIENT: The-the-I-I sort of felt that there was a four-month waiting list, so actually the time I waited I was reassured by the fact that I was getting in so quick.
COUNSELOR: That the Center thought you deserved me? That kind of thing?
PATIENT: The fact that I didn't have to wait as long as I was expecting to wait. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. It made you think maybe it was okay for you to be coming to therapy.
PATIENT: Yeah...
COUNSELOR: Maybe, well the doubts are in your mind or are the doubts about what you think the Center (inaudible 56:41)?
PATIENT: I think I have the doubts in my mind and because I doubt myself I think that everyone (inaudible 56:55) something in regards to these matters.
COUNSELOR: I had one more thing I wanted to say. I've got to stop, so we'll have to talk about it again. But the other thing which I lost back on the other thing was you say one of the things that makes you worry about whether you should be here is that it is-it's difficult for you to talk-difficult for you to organize and structure things you say and lots of times you don't know what you want to get hold of a all and you can't-it's difficult sometimes
PATIENT: Um Hm.
COUNSELOR: That makes me think maybe you shouldn't be here. Is that a fair kind of statement? Like that really surprises me. I mean, from my point of view, it's like if you can do it, that's probably when you don't have much of a problem. Once you can get hold of things and structure them (inaudible 58:00).
PATIENT: Well, structure...
COUNSELOR: And that one kind of way-one kind of problem that people have, it seems to me-I hate this thing about keeping our thing legitimate problem because it doesn't fit with my viewpoint very much. But it's like, okay one (chuckles) we'll just understand what we mean by that and no implications. It's whatever (inaudible 58:27) the (inaudible 58:28) was. That it's perfectly legitimate for somebody not be able to get hold of things or be able to get into them or be able to find difficulty in getting into their problems. So that's-that doesn't say to me that someone doesn't have problems.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That says to me the more likely that they have problems and they also have an additional problem of not being able to approach it.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: What do you think of that?
PATIENT: It's good. I mean...
COUNSELOR: Does it make a difference?
PATIENT: It's acceptable to me. I can't really tell. I can't just-I can't just sit here and say it has changed my outlook.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I would sort of have to, you know, live with it for a few days or something.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Maybe I'll have a better idea by Monday or something.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Okay. I'm not sure if I completely said it. I'll have to think about it, too, if you're unsure. 
PATIENT: By the end of these sessions, if I seem to be on to something and then like between one session to the next I couldn't figure out what we were talking about.
COUNSELOR: Do you think that's just a function of the amount of time and that if we spent fifteen minutes more or allowed an hour and a half instead an hour? Or do you think that it's a function of this whole kind of getting in to something that's more like function of nearness to the end than amount of time spent (chuckles) (inaudible 60:12)?
PATIENT: It's hard to tell. At first it's that more might be gotten if they were an hour and fifteen minutes or an hour and a half. But then again, I might (inaudible 60:32) "I've got to tread water for an hour and a half, not just an hour." 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm
PATIENT: I might have a harder time facing coming here if they were any longer.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. But is there also a kind of sense-I guess the thing about saying now is like a sense of being cut off and maybe that solution that I just threw out now isn't the solution that's viable because it presents another problem for you like that treading-all that time. But there's still that other issue. Like now it's like now we're going to stop and you may lose hold of this place that you've gotten to by the time you come back. [61:15]
PATIENT: Well I don't know that-I think I may have gained something from this, you know. I may not exactly remember it specifically, like all the details associated with it. But I think I'll probably make some sort of impression or overcame. So...
COUNSELOR: But there's some kind of sense that you lose something in this way that you get cut off. You can't get right back to where you are.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, because that's for the end. That's partially-that sort of bothers me in that-being treated like it's hectic. Exactly nine o'clock to exactly ten o'clock. (inaudible 62:01) It sort of bothers me but I've gotten to accept it. Not being a chump but, I mean...
COUNSELOR: On what grounds...?
PATIENT: But the fact that you do have all those things to do and...
COUNSELOR: Well is that the kind of accepting like the kind of accepting the oak-panel situation?
PATIENT: No, this is something which I was so struggling against in the beginning but I sort of think there's a logic behind it now.
COUNSELOR: That makes more sense to you?
PATIENT: Yeah, it does. There were a couple things that really bothered me. That sort of does make me feel like being a chump. It doesn't make me feel like being an individual-a human being. But it's sort of funny how I resented that but didn't exactly resent not being able call and say I didn't want to come in. Which treats me as a-doing that is an affirmation of my being a human instead of just a chump. 
COUNSELOR: Can you just restate it?
PATIENT: I resented being thought of as a statistic in that my time began at nine promptly and ended at ten promptly regardless of whether or not anything good was going on or not. And I resented that it made me feel like a statistic. However, I accepted the obligation I felt that I always had to show up for every session...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: ...and I couldn't call up and excuse myself the day before or something. 
COUNSELOR: Is that to say that you kept on putting yourself in that position or you let that happen? There are ways in which you didn't use that, just that there were some things that made you a statistic that felt like that that you didn't resent and others that you did.
PATIENT: Right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: What do you think is going-do you have a sense of what's going on?
PATIENT: Well, this sort of thing, getting flipped around and maybe I'll accept being able to call up and cancel out and maybe I'll start to accept ending promptly in an hour. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I don't know, they don't end promptly in an hour as I see now because I don't know, it's been an hour and seven minutes and that even allows for the fact that I was ten minutes late, so...
COUNSELOR: So, what?
PATIENT: I don't know. I tend to notice that if we're talking and have a good discussion going it doesn't generally stop at exactly one hour. So that all tends to encourage me. 
COUNSELOR: I'd like to talk about the time things again because there is also some things, like the convenience thing is one thing-but there's other considerations that I have that I (inaudible 65:23). On Monday?
PATIENT: Um Hm. Oh, and I don't know whether I'm going to be taking a vacation or not...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...and if I do, I may be gone on Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Well, we can go Monday and you could know by-you could just call in between. Like make an appointment on Monday and if you don't know by Monday, then you just call up on (inaudible 66:18). You can try calling here. I'll give you my number. I'm here a lot, but I forget to turn the phone back on sometimes.
PATIENT: Oh, okay.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 66:44)
PATIENT: I don't know. It would probably be good for me to try to-try to make up my mind (inaudible 67:03)
COUNSELOR: Oh, you don't (inaudible 67:13), so either way (inaudible 67:21). Bye.
PATIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
