TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: Me?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Go ahead and start.


PATIENT: Well I really don't even know what we're going to talk about today. I just...you know...it was just one of those really weird weeks where you know [things seemed to] (ph) fall into place and...I really didn't know (inaudible) by myself...you know for a change... [Kind of a nice feeling.] (ph)


And I was thinking over what I talked about last week and I talked it over a little bit with Charlie about why I felt like I still needed to come and I didn't...you know. It was really funny because I wanted to...you know like talk to him about the business with the sex and everything. And there really didn't seem to be any need for it. You know I mean...it's like when...you know nothing happens I don't think about it.


And I just you know...like I'll go through periods like that where I'll have you know...three or four days in a row where I don't even think about it at all. You know and then I wonder if it's really a problem or if it's something that just like creeps up on me and then I let it take the better of me.


COUNSELOR: Uh, huh,


PATIENT: And um...the only thing that really bothered me about the whole business was that I have a really funny feeling about talking to the fellow that I have gone out with. And it was like really a strong sensation and...


COUNSELOR: The one that you made love with [that you were telling me about?] (ph) Let me say one more thing here...you seem much less tense (ph) and like you seem more relaxed to me (inaudible).


PATIENT: I do feel more relaxed and even though I broke down this morning and called him. He wasn't home and so maybe it was like...that was all I needed was to dial the number. I know that maybe that sounds silly but it was like...after I did it I expected all these really strong guilt feelings. [2:59] 


And I questioned why I did it. You know like...it really seemed pretty stupid if I was just calling him to talk because we really don't have anything to talk about. And when I think back now...I really had this thing to talk to him. Maybe like tune into my feeling of like that he wouldn't destroy the privacy of it...or something like saving (ph) me from...


I don't know...you know. I need reassurance I guess. But it was funny because I really expected to...you know if I had gotten him on the phone or something...that I would really get worked up about it. And I didn't. It was just like really no big thing.


And I think that maybe it's because that...you know like I talk about the idea of separating everything and when I lived here I just...I was like really funny because I couldn't believe that I had really said all of those things and not been upset about it...or even emotionally involved with him in any way.


COUNSELOR: It's almost like thinking about saying it is worse than giving it out.


PATIENT: Uh huh. And then...you know I thought about it a lot. And I really wondered if I had just more and more reconciled myself to the fact that I this is the way it was going to be. And I don't feel the pressures of marriage like I did before. It's like I don't seem to get as upset over little things and... [5:06]


Like if he you know yells at me for doing something, I just turn off to it. I have no reaction and I just go about what I was doing or playing him. I don't know if this is normal or not...you know if I am suppose to react to the anger or howling or some type of emotion. 


Yet it feels better inside me not to get upset over these things. You know it's like they really aren't that important to me.


COUNSELOR: Well it's definitely not just an all or nothing thing anymore. Like if it works...it works. And if it doesn't then you might have to get tougher if (ph) that's the way it is. It also sounds to me like in another sense there that you have somehow...that it had got clear to you a long time ago...or that it had begun too. That you kind of decided then that I just like getting it out...it was a very important thing.


PATIENT: I think so...because it's like I was so unhappy with my own personal existence and then I felt like everything around me was just crumbling. You know because I am the head of sales in my department (ph). You know and I felt like a failure in that. And it seemed as though my marriage was just kind of breaking up. And there wasn't anything that I really felt that I touched that was successful and even relationships with other people. [6:57]


And I just...the other things were minor because once it was over I was away from it. But I couldn't accept the failure of the marriage.


COUNSELOR: You can't get away from it.


PATIENT: If it's a failure...I don't really know. See that is the thing that...you know. I guess I've sort of drawn the conclusion that I'm not going to really knock myself out to make it work. It's like I don't want to be you know involved in a divorce or anything like that...but right now I'm more concerned with what I'm going to do with my future. 


And I just want to get on the right track with that and I feel that the pressures with the marriage and everything...a lot of it did have to do with me because I was under so much tension. And I think I finally realized then that we really couldn't go on the way we we've been going.


And yet again sometimes it hits me really funny like (inaudible)..."why not?" You know because there are [certain things] (ph) that we do satisfy for each other. And although we don't seem to meet on certain levels of the marriage...I really cannot foresee us breaking up that easily. I think something really major would have to happen before that would come to pass.


COUNSELOR: Are you saying... (inaudible) ...but it's not that bad.


PATIENT: It isn't really. I mean I know that a lot of it I created in my own mind because I was so unhappy with so many other things. And I found that I was going back. It was like when we first got married I was so totally devoted. Oh (ph) I just wanted to give him myself and I wanted to do everything to please him. [9:23]


I don't know if it was because we were away and you know I just needed that security so badly that I felt like I had to just do everything in my power to keep it. And then when we moved back to the home ground and I was once again among other people that I knew and around familiar things and places. I think that I started to get less cocky in my position and I started slacking off.


And as time when on I started really not to care about anybody but myself and what made me happy. You know like with sex. I wasn't ever really happy in the role I was playing but...I chose not to do anything about it for fear that it would cause problems.


And it wasn't really until we did come home that I started finding it easier to slough it off. And not really find out what the problem was and then I would start picking at everything that he did. I mean...even my mother has said to me that I really like crab a lot. You know and I guess that I do. I can even feel myself doing it sometimes. 


And what it was becoming between us was like a yelling match. You know...I always understood the fact that he expected perfection. And he would admit that it was wrong and that he didn't know why he wanted so much of me. But at least he could see it and he realized what he was doing. And so that it became easy for me to handle...but why I was doing what I was doing I could never admit or acknowledge. I just did it. [11:44]


And sometimes I would feel guilty about it...but at other times you know it just really was like a wave with me. And I guess it's really always been that way. 


COUNSELOR: What I hear you saying is that when you can face up to the situation and accept the fact that your marriage is in trouble...you can face that and also be with what you need in it. Then things...and not think of it as kind of a life or death failure...an all or nothing thing that you've got to make happen...and things go more smoothly and you can see all these things.


PATIENT: It's like I just can't...I reach points where I can't control myself. You know...it's like...I suppose it's other frustrations coming out and I do this with most people that I am close to. That is the really terrible thing. And I find that I just can't...it's like if somebody doesn't understand the way I feel about something I can't accept it. 


That's why my relationship with my parents is so poor. And I'm constantly getting into arguments with them about...you know...little incidental things that even Charlie will point out to me are stupid and that I'm going to regret someday. And then see and that really starts to bother me because then I start feeling really super guilty about the things that I've said to them. 


COUNSELOR: You get really easily set off and easily angered and then after you just feel bad.


PATIENT: I have like this thing with my father that I think is really...in some ways a good comparison to the relationship that I have with Charlie. You know...it's like I really feel close to him in some respects and I can...you know like always depend on him you know to come through for me if I really needed help with something. But it's really weird because I can't display any real type of emotion towards him and if you know like...he'll touch me or something and I'll just. It just really goes to me and I can't stand it. [14:44]


It was terrible. Like I was with him Saturday and he kept...we were in a crowd of people and he was trying...I know he was trying just to hang on to me so we wouldn't get separated. But it was like I was walking and I was just punching my fist. 


And I was talking under my breath and I was saying, "Oh I wish he'd quit touching me" and it was really driving me up the wall. And afterwards I thought, "Gee that was really kind of weird that I should have that..." I mean it really got to me.


COUNSELOR: Did it like ...(inaudible) Something like you don't know if he really cares about you...and the other one is like he's going to jump on your or something like that. No touching. It's dangerous or something...is that it?


PATIENT: No I don't think that's really it. I think what it is, is that it's like I just can't even... The feeling that I have inside of me is like just...it really bugged me. I felt like I was just like creepy. I can't...that's the only word I can use. Maybe it's because I don't want to be that close to him.


COUNSELOR: Like he was going to take something out of you.


PATIENT: I think because I'm really obsessed with him dying. You know it's like I can't accept the fact that...he's like getting older and he's had a couple of heart attacks. And it's like I can't stand to get that close to him but the funny thing is...that sometimes when Charlie gets near me I get the same feeling.


It's really like I don't even want him to come near me. I don't have that feeling with Charlie as consistently as I do like with my father. I don't feel as repulsed by him touching me as I do with my father. But I can't understand why I feel that way. It's like it really bothers me. And...[17:26]


COUNSELOR: I'm having trouble understanding exactly why (inaudible) there's this repulsion or creepy...or I don't...


PATIENT: Well I think sometimes it could be because I've...somewhere underneath me it really has some kind of a sexual meaning...more than anything else. Because I can only identify my early sexual experiences with my parents you know. 


And they weren't the greatest in the world. Like I would maybe see something that I shouldn't have seen or overheard something I shouldn't have overheard...and it was made easy for me because there wasn't much privacy in our home.


COUNSELOR: Can you tell me about something specific?


PATIENT: Well yeah...there were specific incidences. I don't know if I've ever talked about them...that's why I didn't go into detail. But it was really like...I guess my first experiences you know were that I knew there was sex and what it involved. And I guess that...you know at least...they have always sort of like stuck with me.


COUNSELOR: You've see more...(inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah...it's like well...one time I don't even know how old I was...but I know I wasn't in school. And I was supposed to be taking a nap and I woke up and came down the stairs and my father used to draw a lot. 


And he was drawing a picture of our neighbor and she was posing for him...and she was in the nude. And it really upset me; I mean I just completely feel apart. But not outside...you know it was all inside. I showed absolutely nothing outside and it was passed off as no big thing. 


And I suppose as far as they were concerned it was forgotten about. You know. But I really didn't forget about it and I really thought about that for a long time after that.


COUNSELOR: What did you think?


PATIENT: I thought it was pretty sickening. It really bugged me. It bugged me and then again I found it very fascinating you know. And even to the point that a couple of times after that I would pretend like I was posing and I remember one time my mother caught me upstairs and she really gave it to me. Because...I mean as far as she was concerned I was doing something obscene I guess...I don't know.


COUNSELOR: You mean like posing naked? Is that what you're talking about?


PATIENT: Well it was like in the middle of the day and she came upstairs and I suppose she expected me to be dressed in my play clothes and all that. See my mother has a very puritan attitude...almost not puritan but I think sex really makes her sick. I think from what she has told me that she has absolutely no use for it. But that my father was never the type of person who could be liked turned off and so she'd just gone along with it. And she...like told me that. [21:17]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like when you were little you were really getting two messages there. I mean one was that - and that was confusing - you know one was that sex was this terrible thing that nobody should do or nobody should be caught doing. And then you go down and see this thing happening and you're turned on by it but at the same time you're not.


PATIENT: Exactly. And see like the thing was that...like when I said before that we really didn't open to the privacy in our home because there was just the three of us. And evidently they thought that since...well like they always believed that if you don't close doors and you don't have privacy normally (ph) that a child will grow up to be normal.


But I don't really agree with that in all the ways that they did it. And I think that mainly that's why I really have this thing now. I can't explain it but it's like...well you know like bathroom doors were never closed and there was just too much exposure I think. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah well you really have two things. I mean you had it flaunted in your face but at the same time you were told it wasn't supposed to be flaunted in your face.


PATIENT: And see as time went on...I just...of course this is the way we were raised so it doesn't change when we become like an adolescent. You know and it just...the no knock is in progress until you are like 18 years old.


And you really...at the time I don't think you give it much thought but there's something really strange about my feelings about the male anatomy. It really nauseates me. And when I look back now I think this may have had a lot to do with it.


You know I just don't...you know like care to view it any more then I have too. I just don't like it. I don't feel like turned on by the female body but I just like...sometimes I feel like I'm neutered. Really...I mean it's terrible.


COUNSELOR: But when you see a man that's ugly and repulsive or...? [24:12]


PATIENT: Yeah. I just don't know...like I can't...it just doesn't do anything to me. 


COUNSELOR: And that was the same feeling you got when your father was touching you?


PATIENT: Hmm. I think so. Yes it was like creepy. That was the only word I could think of and it was like I just got this chill. You know I just would freeze up. And I think in a way that's why I can't like...get to the point where like during the day or anything like that...I don't care to make love in daylight or anything until it gets dark.


COUNSELOR: You know this might be wrong but it's something to think about. I wonder if you would feel like your father was going to attack you or something like that. That he'd seen you or that somehow you were going to exposed that way. That you kind of...but then at the same time that was really wrong? You know. So that you could only begin to feel like bonding (inaudible).


PATIENT: Perhaps. I think maybe that could be very true because...like I said before I never really had a complete feeling about all of these things. It was like...they were things that I never forgot but they never really were all put together in my mind until now. 


I guess because it's now that I need the balance that I don't have. And even when I think back to when I would start...like getting involved with someone...as soon as it came to the point of making love I would just turn off.


As long as it just...like involved petting and kissing and caressing then I was fine. But then I think that that's where the pain would enter into it. You know because there really isn't any pain. It's just you know like...the only way that. It was like a rescue thing for me. [27:01]


Because I never went out with anyone that was like forceful...you know that they wouldn't care...well I don't care if I hurt her or not. So they would feel sorry for me and it didn't make it look like I was just playing a game with them. Because I really wasn't...but I would just get to that point and I just could not go any farther.


COUNSELOR: But I understand you used to think (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah I am sure I did.


COUNSELOR: And I also was...you would just turn off. Like that was something you couldn't be...you couldn't be and then you'd get yourself out of it. 


PATIENT: It's like I think really what bothers me more than anything else....is that I just really, really have a hang up about a mans body. I just...you know penises just make me sick to my stomach. It's really terrible. You know and I just...you know like I can't...they bug (ph) me. I just...it's the weirdest thing. I don't know how I'll every overcome it because it just makes me sick to my stomach. 


COUNSELOR: They just seem so ugly and (inaudible) and repulsive...


PATIENT: And I just can't...you know like...I'm sure now that this has always been my problem. You know that I've never been able to have any kind of a normal relationship with anybody because I just can't you know...


I think that's why before when I told you what had happened with this fellow I had blocked it out. Well I had blocked out that. You know the initially intercourse...everything else I didn't block out. I was aware that I was there and I did what I did. But that was it. Like the act itself...it's like it never happened because I can't accept it.


COUNSELOR: There is something so wrong with that. So wrong...so ugly.


PATIENT: I can't understand why in particular it should be the male except for perhaps this early exposure. That's the only thing. I can't ever remember any other particular experience except...well there was one...but I don't really think that is...and this happened when I was older. [30:08]


But I guess that was why I knew what it was because it wasn't that I had actually seen anything but I had come home and it was late and evidentially my parents must have just finished having intercourse or something...you know. And it wasn't like I had actually caught them but I knew what was going on. And it really bothered me...really turned my stomach. And...


COUNSELOR: That they should do something so horrible or...what part of it was (inaudible).


PATIENT: I don't know...it's like. I guess like where my parents are concerned I never really. I don't know how to explain this. I never really thought of them as having a normal sexual life. Maybe it was because...you know like everything that was connected with sex itself was always hidden from me. 


You know like magazines or jokes or anything like that. It was always like put aside. And yet there were times like when things were talked about and I would be like...not...you know like I was supposed to be asleep or something and I would overhear a conversation or something. You know I can't be any more explicit about it because I don't remember that well. But I just remember like lying in bed at night and hearing things...that I know I'm sure I wasn't suppose to hear. [32:22]


And yet during like waking hours and when the three of us were together...you know everything was so fine and pure and nice and pretty and you know. And I guess I really grew up knowing all along knowing that it wasn't but I never knew why.


COUNSELOR: Almost like that was floating in the air but never acknowledged?


PATIENT: Uh huh. And I would never have been able to communicate with my mother about sex. I mean even now she finds it hard to talk to me about. She just can't relax around the subject. You know...it's like it just turns her off completely.


COUNSELOR: Yeah and you're also saying that it was thrown in your face.


PATIENT: Yeah it was. It was like really...see I can't really condemn them you know because my mother always had this hang up. And I'm sure that she couldn't ever have handled it any differently with me. You know it was just her way. And I guess that she thought by...like showing me the difference between a man and women was all I needed to know about life and nothing else. 


COUNSELOR: Just to know that your bodies are different...(inaudible).


PATIENT: Like just because...you know I knew what a menstrual cycle was...I guess she thought that when I started my first period...you know that I would just accept it as an every day kind of occurrence. Except that it happened when I was like 11 years old and she didn't know how to handle it. [34:23]


And so...I mean like she handed me a book and that was the extent of the sex education. And my mother's main concern always was that I would get pregnant. That was always her main concern in life. 


Never like a guiding way...you know...like towards a relationship with a boy. It was always the pregnant bit that was the whole thing. And...


COUNSELOR: So it was never like she helped you see that making love was a nice thing or a thing that people share with each other. It was always...like it was something to be afraid of...not looked at or something to be hidden or something that was slightly perverse or I don't know?


PATIENT: I'm sure that if my mother would have had her way, the only time she would have had intercourse in her life was to get pregnant. Because as far as she's concerned with what I can feel and hear from her is that...that's all it's good for. 


And that if you do it when you're not married and get pregnant that's wrong...you know...so you don't do it at all. And I always had like a really strong curiosity about it. And maybe you know that was why I started to experiment with sex at such an early age...because I had this really wild curiosity about it.


And then I went through that period in my life where I would get just turned off completely. But then once I got back on the track with it again...you know I was just as wound up in it again. And now I guess the way that I feel...is that you know like it's suppose to be ok now because I'm married. You know and it's ok if I do it because I wouldn't be doing anything wrong. 


And that I still have the curiosity and I guess that's what really bothers me. You know...is why do I still have it now...when I'm supposed to be fully satisfied...you know which I'm not. [36:57]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like your curiosity though is something like a fascination like you said with something.... slightly wrong but slightly right...does that make sense?


PATIENT: Yes and no. I think that the fascination is really kind of like...I don't know...maybe it's like that you can't...see like I always have the idea that someone could only be interested in me because of sex. And not because of anything else...and then you know.... like when I became involved with Charlie it wasn't that way at all and I came to accept it. 


I always felt that the only real hold that I have on him was that we have had a physical relationship and I think perhaps that that's my problem now because I no longer have to prove anything to him. And so...you know like sex with him...you know doesn't mean anything anymore. [38:33]


COUNSELOR: Now that it can be had (inaudible)...you don't know what it means.


PATIENT: See it's like I can remember that I always had a romantic type of idea of what should happen...you know between a boy and a girl. And it always included sex and I know that when I would start going out with someone and everything would be fine in the beginning...you know. 


And then I would be the one who would end up encouraging for a situation to get out of hand. I would...and then that's when I would start to get the guilt feelings because I knew that I had and I didn't want it to be that way. And then I would try to go back to the way it was in the beginning and I would say, "No I'm not going to do that anymore...with him." You know..."we're just going to go out and have a good time and that's all it's going to be." 


And I'd never stick to it. You know maybe I would like for the next date or two and then I'd go back into the same thing with him. And I just you know...I don't know where this is all leading too...I've lost my train of thought. 


I guess that's why with Charlie it was different because see he turned me off. You know he said, "We're not going to do anything anymore because you're too unstable." You know..."You don't have the right emotional background for a relationship like this." And now I get to enjoy life about it because I started that playing that game again too.


And I would lecture him about that I didn't want to do anything like that anymore because I didn't want to get pregnant. That it was wrong...you know and he couldn't accept it. That was the one difference between him and everyone else. Everyone else played the game with me. [41:28]


And when it reached a point where I was just...you know so physically involved with him I began wondering if that was my real only attachment to him. And maybe that was why I chose to tell my mother about it which when I look back now was a complete mistake. 


But it was right to tell her, "Well you were wrong. Nothing bad happened and I didn't get pregnant and it's not bad...you know it's good."


COUNSELOR: Was she breaking out of (inaudible).


PATIENT: Except that it didn't work. The only thing it did was upset her and it didn't do anything for me. You know...I just...I don't feel that I have the same feelings about sex as my mother does. Well I am sure I don't...but I don't have any more (inaudible) towards it than she does.


And I guess that's what really bothers me because I'm sure that my father feels that I like took after his side of the family. And he can't...it's funny because he knows that I am coming here and I guess he knows why...I didn't tell him but my mother did. 


And I've noticed like he has changed somewhat towards Charlie. Like he's more like blaming him for my unhappiness and that really bothers me because it doesn't have anything to do with Charlie at all. Or at least that's what I keep telling myself. And I wonder sometimes if that's not the answer...I don't know. [44:17]


COUNSELOR: What do you mean by that?


PATIENT: That you know...it's like it is me but it's Charlie too. You know and I wonder like if I could ever really be happy with anybody...on a long-term relationship.


COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) (inaudible) ...for sure your relationship is in trouble with...(inaudible) or you feel like it's all you?


PATIENT: Well I feel like it's all me where the sex is concerned because with you know...I am sure that my attitude towards it has turned Charlie off. And the only thing that you know amazed me is that he hasn't turned to someone else. 


And the fact that I did makes me feel that it is me. You know that I am unhappy with him because he's not satisfying me. And...


COUNSELOR: It's your fault because you're unhappy with him?


PATIENT: Physically yeah. You know...I mean like he doesn't you know...but I don't know if it's because...sometimes I really have this weird feeling that I'm like with my father. You know and I just can't accept it because in so many ways Charlie is like my father to me. You know. He has characteristics that are similar and he has other things I guess that remind me... and I think that my feelings towards Charlie are so similar to that as they are towards my father. [46:17]


COUNSELOR: You have the same feeling about that?


PATIENT: Um huh. And...see I just wonder sometimes if I wouldn't have that feeling about any man. You know if it's just like I just can't stand to be that attached to someone and to be that dependent on someone. Which I was with my father...you know I always felt that I had to do things to please him and that I would avoid arguing with him always try to keep things on an even keel. And that's...that's the way that I find that I am with Charlie. And I wonder if I wouldn't be that way towards any man.


COUNSELOR: Like somehow a way of reacting (inaudible).


PATIENT: Uh huh. And then like maybe because I had this feeling that's why I can't participate in sexual activities because I feel like I am going to bed with my father or something.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: And it's funny because on several occasions I had dreams of this...you know that I would go to bed with my father. And it really upset me. Some of them were as recent as a year ago...you know. And I'd always just dismiss it because I don't hold that much in dreams. 


But it would stick with me for like the whole day...you know I'd really be upset about it and I'd think, "God how could I have such a sick dream." But it has happened on occasions and it really bothers me. [48:34]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like your experience with Charlie is somehow equivalent to...the relationship is somehow equivalent. And that your experiences with Charlie and your experiences with your father...they mesh somehow...they become united.


PATIENT: Well I think it's because I always had you know the feeling that I had to get married because it was the thing to do but I never really could accept that role in my mind. I just...you know always thought just visualize my life staying at home forever and ever and ever. 


And when I finally made the break...and I sometimes I even think now I just...you know don't even think of myself as being married sometimes. Maybe that's why the thought of having children really bothers me because that would make it that much more concrete...you know. That I would have to all the sudden accept the role of the mother. [50:14]


COUNSELOR: You don't feel like you're at home. You still feel little (ph) to your body.


PATIENT: Uh huh. I don't feel that I could...you know like all the sudden just become that responsible. I don't...I think that's why I've talked to Charlie that we don't have (inaudible)...we don't have anything concrete. And I think it's because that's the way that I feel. I don't feel like I've established a place for myself in this life.


It's a...perhaps that's why I find the attention of other men and the looseness of being free from responsibility...and like I'm still 18 or 19 years old. And I don't even think of it in the terms of the fact that I don't want to grow old...because I don't look at it that way. It's like...you know that's just the way I feel.


COUNSELOR: You've just never grown up. You've never created any space for yourself. You've never come out on your own.


PATIENT: I think that's why too that I don't encourage the closeness with my parents because I feel that...that's like hanging on. You know the least amount of time that we spend with them the happier that I am because I don't want to feel that way. [52:22]


You know I sometimes will go into this routine where I get really advanced...you know as far as I'm concerned...you know by accepting my role and I play it you know. But then I'll go back. You know it's just like it never stops. 


COUNSELOR: It's not real. You can't (inaudible)


PATIENT: I think maybe that's why...you know...when we talked about why we always feel that we have to...you know do something with someone. And I took it kind of personally. I thought it was because we couldn't be alone together or...you know but I don't really think that is it. 


I think that well as far as Charlie is concerned...it's just because he enjoys other peoples company you know. And we really do spend a lot of time together. That's why I came to the conclusion that I was all off on that completely. 


I think with me it was because...it's like when you're young. You know you want to be around people all the time. You have to be like constantly doing something or on the go. And I think the thought of just going out to dinner and to the show or something...just the two of us is liked too staged for me. You know I can't accept that as a way of life. [54:07]


And that I just have to constantly be doing something and having something to look forward to. Like I'm always encouraging someone to have a party or a get together or something...so that I can enjoy it. You know it's like I just can't fall into a nothing kind of a life. And it probably wouldn't be anything if I could accept it.


You know I'm sure that I would find as much satisfaction in that type of life if I could accept it...but I can't accept it. And I think the thing that frightens me so much is...you know...when is it going to end? You know I can't be hopping (ph) around like this when I'm 35 or 40 years old.


COUNSELOR: You need something more solid. (inaudible)


PATIENT: I think that...when I talked about going back to school. I think that was the one reason why I was afraid. Because I didn't want to be around people that I was afraid that you know like...it's so easy for me now to turn my back on responsibilities that I have in the home and with Charlie...that if I had school to rationalize. I would end up probably doing nothing as a wife. You know and that I would become so involved with these young people that I would just really regress. You know and I'm afraid of it. You know...I just...it really bothers me. 


Sometimes I...when we are with older people who are like a lot older then we are...I really feel relaxed because I'm being forced into playing something...you know that I ordinarily don't. And I think this is the way it should be. Like I should be acting like this and yet I don't feel that comfortable in it. [56:38]


COUNSELOR: I hear you say that it's just its not real for you yet...that you really would rather be off with younger people having fun. It's like it's too stogy or too stiff...too forced.


PATIENT: Well I think the thing that bothers me too. Like what it is...if I acted that way. I think what it is... I'm just not facing reality. You know...I've been married for almost five years now and I still don't feel like I am married. You know and I think that bothers me because I keep waiting for that feeling to come. I mean and it's not coming. 


And when I think about the fact that we have been married for five years and we haven't...you know...started a family and we haven't done this or that. I wonder well when is it going to all start. 


And I realize that we wouldn't have to...I mean children don't have to make you feel this way. You can feel this way without children. And I think that's why I don't want children until I come around to accepting the fact that I am a married woman and I have to start acting like one. [58:18]


And I think that's why I feel that like even...even though the crumbling of the relationship is two sided...in some respects like Charlie isn't even aware of any of these feelings. You know he doesn't even know they exist. And I think that it would really surprise him because he sees so many things wrong now and if I told him that...you know...he would really be out in left field and I don't know if he'd understand it.


COUNSELOR: Like he'd go along with like saying you'd never been married until right now and you don't have anything.


PATIENT: And yet...you know it's funny like I don't know why I should feel that way because I just hated it at home so much and I hated the constant parental...you know thing that they have over me. It was just...that they just didn't want to let go and they still won't let go. Maybe that's why I am still the way I am...you know. They just...


COUNSELOR: Because now if you didn't want to leave that they would be hanging on to you with everything that they had.


PATIENT: Uh huh. And maybe in a way that's another reason why I resent my father the way that I do. You know besides all the other things. It's like...you know I'm still his little girl but he like runs into the ground. [60:15]


And I keep trying to find an answer for it...I think that maybe it's because he's like afraid that he doesn't have that many more years of life that he wants to like enjoy me as long as he can. You know that sort of thing.


COUNSELOR: That's when your dad (inaudible) you're more likely to say...you know don't touch me...don't hang on to me. Don't do that crap (ph) because he wants you to do it. It's like he's dying to do that. (Inaudible)


PATIENT: I think so. Because I know even like when he was in the hospital you know...I could never really showing any emotions and yet I had it come out in a different (ph) way. But I couldn't let it out normally. And it was like I never accepted the fact that you know it had come to this. 


And I think that like with my relationship in regards to this like (inaudible) mother. I became like very cold about the whole thing. I kept thinking that I was doing it for her benefit, because she would need me to be strong and everything. [62:09]


And I just couldn't express myself to anybody about it. I couldn't even talk to Charlie about it because I had sensed something like this happening for a long time before it happened. And I started having really strong problems within my mind. 


I kept trying to talk to Charlie about it and he said that you know that I was just looking (ph) myself to find something wrong. You know and then the next month later he had an attack. So it was like I felt that I had predicted something. 


And when it happened it just really threw me. And I just...you know I can sit and talk to Charlie about it and not you know...like have anything even cross my face. You know it's just like talking about the man next door or something. And I can't...it's just a weird thing that I have with him and I think that maybe that's why I have this feeling with Charlie too. 


It's that you know like...as long as I don't get too close then I can't be hurt if anything goes wrong. It's like I'm really afraid to give myself totally to anybody. And I never realized the strong feelings that I had about death...and the fear that I have of it. Not for myself but for other people.... until just recently. [64:21]


And when I think in terms of my age and then I think in terms of like their age and I realize...you know that it's just passing and it's going to get worse before it gets better. That I turn off to it and maybe that's why I like to still think of everybody as a young...you know....


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 65:03)


PATIENT: Charlie is like I guess in the same thing with...you know like...I'm always thinking of somebody like doing something to him. Like I get very frightened because of the fact that he's in the type of work where someone could physically attack him and I get real worked up about this sometimes. 


And I find that to think that way is kind of silly...you know. I mean you're like intentionally depressing yourself and forcing yourself to react towards him in a cold manner because you're like really convinced that something is going to happen. [66:12]


COUNSELOR: Cutting yourself off.


PATIENT: Uh huh. And I can never remember things bothering me so much as they do now about...like depressive type movies. I can't go. I can't...you know take it just like as fiction. I start identifying with it and then I get very upset and start you know. And it's like really...I think that's probably why I'm so depressed all the time.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like your beginning to let a lot of feelings come out...and that's not easy. (inaudible).


PATIENT: You know and it's so funny because I can remember like when different people died who were close to me. You know and I just never ever reacted to it in any way. And I guess maybe that's not really the way it should be. I should have had some type of feelings about it or let loose...you know some way. But I never could.


Maybe that's why I am afraid that if anything does happen...you know to anybody...that I won't be able to cope with it. You know even accept it in my mind. The fact that I think about it so much doesn't seem quite right to me either because why should I think about things like that when there're so many other things to think about. [68:14]


And maybe that's why I'm unhappy all the time. You know because I really haven't let myself think about anything that is pleasant...you know or get involved with something so I wouldn't have so many free moments to be that upset about the way that things are going to happen. I mean the happen so...


And I just seem to be like going in a vicious circle. And I hope that this thing with Charlie and I we just are trying to work it out. And I hope that I just don't do something that I'm going to regret. That's the only thing that bothers me.


Because I just...you know...it's like...I when I said before that I feel like I'm loosing control. I just feel like I kind of drift of to another...completely different surroundings and it's like an escape. If I'm not here then I don't have to face up to the things that make me unhappy.


COUNSELOR: Yes. That kind of [puts us up.] (ph) I don't have a clock and I think that... (inaudible)


PATIENT: Ok. [70:01]


COUNSELOR: How did you feel when you said that over and over...like ah...you really begin to let things in and that's...(inaudible) your running away from it but it's your happiness. Before you've probably known (inaudible)...but kind of not accepted it... (inaudible). You know its better but it's also painful.


PATIENT: Yeah it is very. Did you want me to come at the same time next week too?


COUNSELOR: Next week you can come at 6:00 if that's ok. Is that better then...or a little after like 6:00 or... Here you go.


PATIENT: Ok. Goodnight. [71:44]


END TRANSCRIPT
