Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Yep, but. I don't remember what I was talking about last time.
THERAPIST: Various things. Your dad coming.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think me not being definitely positive or affirming...
CLIENT: No, no, no.
THERAPIST: That's not the way to say it. I didn't take it critically when you said it at all actually. I get partly about your being more negative or angry about things in here than you are elsewhere and how different that is for you and also how (pause) that in other therapy you had a tendency to be kind of in a pain management different. [00:01:12]
CLIENT: Yeah. So I have the great experience of actually vaguely defending myself at the doctor's office today. Every time I go there for one thing they harass me about something completely different. It's like they have this long list of things. Last time it was my blood pressure. I was totally panicked that they're going to give me problems about my blood pressure, therefore, raising my blood pressure which I was planning to yell at them. Like they give me so much trouble that I panic every time I get in there and it goes up high. I was trying very hard not to. It was very hard. But then they're like yeah, so you haven't been in for a pap smear in two years, and I'm like I've been with the same guy for 18 years. It's caused by a virus. Is this really necessary since we're testing me for something that will kill me? (Laughter) I just felt like what does this have to do with anything you know? [00:02:14]
THERAPIST: What were they testing you for?
CLIENT: They're getting the preliminary blood work so that when I go see a rheumatologist that can potentially see whether or not I have MS.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You decided to go through with that?
CLIENT: Well I decided to go to the doctors to find out if there's anything else that it could be. They're going to test my thyroid which I'm already on thyroid medication because sometimes that happens. And they're testing my electrolytes so they'll be taking stuff with that so we'll see. I'm like well there isn't a whole lot more else. But I really hope that I can go in there and oh well it's because you haven't been eating like you're getting scurvy or something. You not getting enough vitamin C. I don't know. I was hoping at least something else. [00:03:08]
I like my doctor very much and everyone says that he's an exceptionally good doctor. The only problem is he just doesn't seem to have the guts to ever - to handle anything on his own. Every single thing I must see him and then I must get followed up to somebody else. So at least this time I'm like well what kind of blood tests would they want to do ahead of time so that I could just go in and not have extra visits and was kind of pressing on that. I feel like yes the appointments themselves are not very long, but it's almost never when I can have it. It rearranges my day a lot to have to go in there. And so he did do some of blood tests on his own. But I'm just kind of sick and tired of being in pain and I'm not going to go - I hardly sleep. [00:04:15]
(Pause) At least it seemed to me that I at least got somewhere with that. But I don't know. I'm just worn out; nearly worn out. I'm sick of being in pain. I'm already at the point right now where it's like (pause) I am really avoiding being around people because my moods have been so bad. And I have been told my other people oh if you just get out you'll be in a better mood. No, it's not. It really isn't. When you're in chronic pain there's not a real whole lot that distracts you. I mean at one point - there's this thing called pin therapy where they use electricity to distract you from your pain. They shock you. With a different frequency of electricity they shock you. That doesn't distract me from it so it's not like light conversation's going to do it either. [00:05:31]
THERAPIST: Yeah, the thing where the light turns on...
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I did that for a long time just thinking that eventually it would work now.
THERAPIST: Never did?
CLIENT: No. I guess the concept is it confuses the nerves. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Whatever. It didn't help.
CLIENT: It didn't really work. I do push myself to go out and do things more than I really want to. It's just exhausting. I put myself together just enough to be able to go out and teach a kid's camp yesterday. I was in terrible pain and I go out there and I find out they're not there. No one called to tell me that they had been cancelled. [00:06:20]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I think you had told me it was coming up.
CLIENT: It was yesterday. So I'm like yeah I just hauled myself all the way out to... Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's awful.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm going to try and stand up for myself to get paid for some of that time because that's expensive.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: And... Though technically I guess Microsoft doesn't necessarily - it's not their fault either because it was the school teacher who decided to cancel. So I don't know. I just don't...
THERAPIST: Wasn't somebody at Microsoft's fault for not letting you know or did the school just let Microsoft know? [00:07:01]
CLIENT: I think that the teacher flaked with very little notice, less than 24 hours, and then Microsoft didn't tell me also not to come. It was definitely very frustrating. But in other random good news my husband finally can stop beating himself up for not being first author on paper. It's a paper related to things he did his PhD on two years ago but that's sort of the slow process these things kind of go through. So that was good.
THERAPIST: It got accepted?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was actually long story short - maybe I'm overly critical on him. It was a request for a paper therefore they tend never to... Like they requested it from his old advisor and they tend never to reject when a paper is requested. They may have things we need to change to make it fit in. So but I'm not saying that way at home alone oh great you finally got your first author in a very low impact journal. But I still don't say any of that. I'm just glad that he's doing something. [00:08:20]
He's been wavering up and down, up and down as to what he's doing with his life right now. When we were in Brooklyn he wanted to leave research and do purely being a lecturer. Now he's back on the research thing and one because he was told, quite frankly, that he couldn't afford to support a family doing lecture type stuff, two because of the fact that all of his original lab mats that he was in back in Brooklyn are actually up at post docs up here which is kind of strange I know. And they all went to this baseball game or something and he came back deciding that he wanted to do research again. I don't know if it's competitiveness. I don't know what Ryan talked him into. I don't really understand a whole lot. So just dealing with his moods it's sort of a (pause) really big pain. [00:09:21]
So it's (pause)... I feel really, really odd saying this. I think I told you that I would really like to have gone back in time and not to have even existed at all. I'm not actively like I'm not throwing myself in the river or kill myself or anything like that. One of the biggest reasons why that I can't ever go down that pipe of becoming that much despair is that I know that what a tremendous imposition that would be on the people and the lives around me and, therefore, I could never actually entertain the thought which is actually kind of fucked up. [00:10:13]
THERAPIST: Like it's an additional form of self-sacrifice?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean most of the time you hear these things and you say oh well you have to think about ways. What a terrible cruel thing you're doing to everybody else. But quite frankly I feel like that would be a tremendous burden on everyone's lives. I just watched a bunch of teenagers trying to figure out what they're supposed to do for a funeral, and I figured to myself my husband knows even less about that kind of stuff, etcetera, etcetera. I don't know. It just sounds so bizarre to say it that way. I feel like I can't even die because it would be a tremendous...
THERAPIST: Imposition?
CLIENT: Imposition in everyone's lives.
THERAPIST: But were it somehow not for that... [00:11:03]
CLIENT: I don't know. I haven't even gone down that far, but the point is I'm actually bitter that I can't even do self-pity of being suicidal because I have to worry about...
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're not (inaudible at 00:11:19) letting yourself do it, not letting yourself think about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm bitter because I can't. Does that make sense? (Laughter)
THERAPIST: I'm sure it does. I'm not quite sure how yet. I mean I understand...
CLIENT: This whole thing sort of came up because there's an author that recently put out a book recently, and she's very kooky. She recently came out with this whole set of videos about this kind of stuff and she's talking about - she does these videos normally about funny things. They're really, really funny but she also has a very severe depression. And one of the videos were basically talking about depression lying to you and telling you you'd be better off not being here and all this stuff. I'm like you know what honestly I don't really have this chance because I don't have the self-indulgence of being able to be suicidal because I have too many things I have to take care of. And I don't know why it just made me bitter that I don't even have the chance to actually to fall apart. And therefore, (pause)... Not really a fighting will to live it's just (pause)... [00:12:47]
THERAPIST: It sounds like a lot of responsibility and guilt.
CLIENT: Yeah. I would feel terrible doing anything to my husband or my family. (Pause) And a lot of people that rely on me for stuff not even necessarily like real stuff, but my dad calls me and talks to me about all the cases that he can't really talk to anybody else about. Not the cases themselves but when he's very excited that he won something because everyone else would think they were stupid or why the hell you're doing kind of thing. The things that he's internally proud of that the industry including possibly even my mom would think were really dumb and so it's other things like that. I think it would break his heart to have me not in his life anymore. [00:13:55]
I don't know who would feed and bathe my husband. Though he cooks and does a lot of the laundry it sounds like if I actually managed this on some level, like let's get something to eat now, I can't imagine how in the world he would subsist. I don't know. When I'm in pain I just feel really crummy.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And even if you know you won't be it sounds like you at least have moments of feeling like you just want to be done. [00:14:42]
CLIENT: Yeah. Pretty much. (Pause)
THERAPIST: And I'm sorry that you feel that way but it certainly makes sense given, at least what I've understood about, how you're hurting.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) I (pause) don't like to think about the future of hurting. It doesn't get too much better. I have sort of been hoarding certain amounts of my medicine for emergency situations like 18 hour days, things like that, forever. And I only have like one and a half pills left. I break them up very small. At the risk of sounding a little bit like an addict, which I'm not, I'm panicked about what am I going to do when there's absolutely nothing to comfort me and I have to keep going. Even though it's very small amounts of pain pills it's still - I do know that there'll always be another launch. There will always be this. On the other hand I just feel like (pause) that even seems a little bit more bleak. [00:16:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah. It sounds like you don't have any idea how you'll get through it.
CLIENT: Pretty much. I hate when I'm feeling like this. I'm really not very articulate about the way I'm feeling but I just...
THERAPIST: I think some of the feelings are very troubling to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) This is also one of those things where I mentioning I think it's a good thing that we don't have kids. Like how in the world am I going to take care of one more living creature in my life. Maybe she's right. I don't know. (Pause) I already feel like I'm a failure at just about everything else in the world. (Pause) I have a very high bar for success for myself so it's not - the fact I got the dishwasher loaded is probably okay. But the fact that I still have packing boxes in my house and I moved in 2010, that's probably not. [00:18:05]
(Pause until 00:18:36) I want it all to stop, but I don't know if there's anything that can be done. I'm just getting exhausted pursuing options.
THERAPIST: I imagine things feel more bleak if you stop pursuing them. (inaudible at 00:19:26).
CLIENT: I'm not really sure what - I mean I occasionally go to the doctor. Every so often I go through this. Okay well maybe they can figure this out then. But after a while it's just gets to be kind of exhausting. The pain is not a condition. Pain is a symptom. They want to treat the condition which is great and I'm not asking for pills per say. I'm not asking for anything else. I just want to find some way to make it stop, and I don't know how. [00:20:06]
THERAPIST: What's been hurting you the last couple of days in particular?
CLIENT: Mostly my left hip but I have a lot of other things (inaudible at 00:20:19). It makes it very, very difficult to sleep. It's a weird feeling.
THERAPIST: It hurts all the time?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean they told me it's worse because there's an entrapped nerve, blah, blah, blah which is basically the swelling is basically making it worse. But I mean knowing that is great, but... So if we can get the swelling down then it won't hurt so much, blah, blah, blah, whatever, but I'm just sick of being patient. [00:21:03]
It's nice to know that the pain is not in this case indicative of the joint collapsing. That's great. But still...
THERAPIST: I guess it's not indicative of you needing a hip replacement tomorrow?
CLIENT: Yeah. Which with other joints that's what it was. I mean when things started getting really bad that was when things were starting to collapse which this one is not which is good. It's just that this one nerve is being pinched off. Well great. It doesn't make it that much better. It doesn't really fix anything. So I am occasionally flirting with the idea of - just combing the Internet's a really bad thing especially because of the fact that due to having SciFinder I can go over into PubMed and find research. I don't read just random crap on the Internet. No, no, no I go for the high quality gerbil stuff. [00:22:15]
And there have been people who have used basically botulism toxin in areas where things that are entrapped with the swelling to basically take the muscle and make it rigid around the area so that the nerve can't be irritated as much. Basically what they do is they make the muscles stiff right around that area, therefore, the swelling can't get to it. And so occasionally I go to this idea of okay well maybe I can go and get this. And so it's sort of a running joke in the house I'm going to get Botox in my head because every so often I get these ideas of Botox. The concept is just to give anything long enough so that they can heal, but I'm not really sure how... Now mind you I have no problems with putting all kinds of poison in me, but for some reason botulism doesn't sound like a really great idea and all that kind of stuff. [00:23:23]
I think it's important for me to know what's out there but I think that on some level that when you try and pursue those kind of things it might not necessarily be a good idea. I don't know. And I'd have to ask money from my parents to go to this hospital to have basically Botox put in my butt; really not a great idea. (Pause) Luckily it's actually my side of the family where Dave's side of the family would find that flipping hilarious. (Pause) Last time we made the mistake of letting them know I was having plastic surgery, which it was entirely necessary, they thought that was hilarious. [00:24:24]
THERAPIST: What did you have done?
CLIENT: I had a breast reduction done. But getting a boob job was hilarious to them because I'm so high maintenance. It's not like... Yeah. But they find that kind of stuff funny. (Pause) I don't know. I hope that I don't do something dumb while they're in town. I'm thinking really highly of finding a reason to not be here and even kind of lying and saying that I had tons of work. [00:25:09]
THERAPIST: Do you want to pass on this one?
CLIENT: I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: You want a pass on this one?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:25:22).
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah. I'm not asking you for a pass. I'm just saying I'm not sure I can handle the stress.
THERAPIST: Then bail. Lie about it. Do something else.
CLIENT: I'm going to see what people are up to. I have a friend of mine that's (inaudible at 00:25:47). He's in town for the next two weeks.
THERAPIST: Stay around the corner like whatever would be easiest for you.
CLIENT: I would feel really weird hiding in my own home town, but yeah.
THERAPIST: There aren't that many things unfortunately, even tragically, that would make your life much easier that you could do now. It sounds like one of them. [00:26:15]
CLIENT: Well they're not around that often. I haven't seen them since Dave graduated. The rest of the family I haven't seen since...
THERAPIST: The point is it's stressing you out though and you really don't want to deal with that I think.
CLIENT: I don't want to deal with it. I really don't want to deal with them. They have ways of stressing us out in ways that... I don't know if his mom goes to whole new levels to do that or not. Dave at my urging I actually told him - His grandfather is having this surgery that is somewhat elective. And so at my urging I told Dave to speak up about the dangers of anesthesia after 90 so they just didn't tell him until it was over because they didn't bother. It wasn't that he was anxious about this. He was talking about how he is a person who works in, not necessarily an anesthesia field, but knows a little bit about it being dangerous. So they just decided not to tell him until it was done; that kind of crap. [00:27:23]
I'm so done with drama. It's not that my family doesn't have drama. I have a lot of drama in my family just not immediate family. I have a lot of cousins and, therefore, when you get to that large amount you get enough people that just things happen. But the drama that is on my side on the family is I have a cousin who did one of those see the world, volunteer, world, whatever, corp. things came back with Hepatitis C or Hepatitis something or other. C is probably not the right one. He came back with it. You know that kind of drama like the whole thing involved you decided to do something - none of us really felt like she was doing it for the right reasons and then came back with some sort of communicable disease. We thought that she really just wanted to not have to worry about school or anything for a while. [00:28:29]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Not necessarily just wanting to party per say but she just didn't want to have to plan anything.
THERAPIST: Figure other stuff out.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's the kind of drama on my other side of the family. But I have a cousin that I mentioned to you that was told that's he's schizophrenic like school teacher's offices told him he was schizophrenic.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He's going to a different school next year.
THERAPIST: Sounds like a plan. [00:29:02]
CLIENT: Yep. Rural America got to love understanding of things. I already said once I guess that in the end I don't have the immediate drama isn't that big of a deal. I don't know. My parents their idea of doing something wild and crazy is watching BBC. I'm not really up to any dirt bike accidents where I have to get a shoulder replaced. That's his dad. His dad is 66 and he'd been riding dirt bikes and has to get a shoulder replacement. Talk about like not actually believing your own age; that kind of thing. So I don't know. [00:30:02]
I feel like I've just been whining for the past - I don't know how long we've been here but - 25 minutes or so. I'm not really (pause) being all that useful.
THERAPIST: My impression is you're mostly really feeling shitty.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And um...
CLIENT: But I'm boring myself. That's got to be really like you yourself are bored with your own life. (Pause) I hate that. (Pause) I guess I just don't really know what else to say. (Pause)
THERAPIST: What is boring you in all this? [00:31:42]
CLIENT: Sort of rehashing my life. The way I feel about... If being depressed about having a bleak future is really boring.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering if it pisses you off.
CLIENT: A little bit. Mostly boring. It sounds stupid but I really love hearing about other people's live. I'm just like tell me about your life so I can think about something else. So I mean part of it's that, but really it's the fact that my own life isn't all that interesting. I don't (pause)... I don't know. I'm sort of stuck in this place where as much as I struggle against it and I do occasionally, I really can't change anything. You know? [00:32:50]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm mad at myself for letting myself get into this situation.
THERAPIST: Well I'm guess I'm not clear what you could have done. But I think your point that you're pretty bored with it at the same.
CLIENT: Well I could've gotten out years ago.
THERAPIST: Gotten out?
CLIENT: My marriage/the pain thing. I could've pushed a lot earlier to figure out what was going on with it. [00:33:36]
THERAPIST: Could that have made much difference?
CLIENT: Probably. If I had noticed that I was doing damage to myself a long time ago I probably could've. I didn't pay attention because I didn't really want to I guess. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Like you didn't want to focus on how much you were hurting?
CLIENT: Yeah. I wanted to just... I figured it was pretty normal. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Are any of the things you're doing now making things worse? [00:34:27]
CLIENT: I can't imagine that they are. Not really. There are things that potentially could but they're not really obvious.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:34:47)
CLIENT: Yeah. I didn't really understand like back when - I thought I was just stressed out and I was starting to forget things and everything just knowing that... I had gone to the doctors immediately then they would have caught the pernicious anemia before I did any nerve damage; that kind of stuff. I just hate going there because they don't always catch things. It's a pain in the ass. (Pause) It's (pause) There's nothing directly. It's just that I like to think about things in a hindsight. What could kind of potential things I could've done to change things. [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: I see and being more proactive about some of the symptoms could have helped. And you also said getting out of your marriage.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe years ago before being so attached. Not just financially but - I mean I was emotionally attached to him too before. But I don't know. Before we had a life together you know. (Pause) I just really, really understand. There wasn't a really good way to find out or understand a lot about what my life was going to be like. To this day I don't like having to explain how much uncertainty there really is in my life about things and I can say well this is what I'm being told that I don't really know. [00:37:15]
(Pause) And like I said maybe it's one of those things where maybe I make things up to be differently than they are but it would've been a lot easier back then. (Pause)
THERAPIST: And about imaging being with somebody who doesn't have those sorts of problems that he has? [00:38:19]
CLIENT: I haven't gotten that far.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: It's just imagining life without extra baggage. (Pause) It's really hard because there's so much expectations on me.
THERAPIST: Which ones are you thinking of?
CLIENT: Well just in general the marriage you have to hold it together because you guys are the people whose marriage is supposed to work out. You are the person who's supposed to be (inaudible at 00:39:21). You're the person who's suppose this or that. You know what I mean? There's a lot of expectations; special expectations that... [00:39:32]
THERAPIST: And who's are we talking about?
CLIENT: Mostly friends or family. With friends it's supposed to be that way where a lot of people have said you guys are the people who are supposed to have the happily ever after. It's kind of hard.
THERAPIST: I bet.
CLIENT: Then he'll think of oh well you don't have rheumatoid arthritis. I feel bad for rheumatoid because it has a bad case of you. That is a lot of pressure. [00:40:05]
THERAPIST: Wait. What?
CLIENT: I feel bad for rheumatoid arthritis because it has a bad case of you. Yeah, that's supposed to be really uplifting. Really it is. It's meant with all the love in the world from (inaudible at 00:40:14) but it sort of puts a lot of pressure.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: Or I have friends in my life who are just basically like while being very kind to me subtly let me know that I am the one that's supposed to be the tough one, therefore, they're coming to me to get advice on things like on being married, or on this, or on that. It's like my life isn't that perfect. It looks great on the outside but really isn't that great on the inside. I'm the one who's supposed to be living the life and, therefore, there's such a pressure to that. [00:41:12]
Not perfection just... What do you do when you're somebody's role model? Like people are like I in our marriage we think about what would Dave and Deb do? You can't be telling me these things. You cannot be telling me these things because what you see is completely different than reality.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess somehow their admiration or even idolization feels like your responsibility which I don't know that it necessarily is.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: But I guess it really feels that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:42:02]
THERAPIST: In other words like it sounds like when people treat you that way it feels very much like you have to take care of them.
CLIENT: Not so much take care of them but I have a standard now that I have to keep up to.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: I don't know. Because they wouldn't say that to me if they weren't really reliant on me for something.
THERAPIST: And (pause) that was something you agreed to when? I mean you know what I mean.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. See. (Pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Sounds good. I will see you Tuesday?
THERAPIST: Tuesday.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: See you soon. [00:43:32]
END TRANSCRIPT
