<b>FEMINIST THERAPY<br />
with<br />
Lenore Walker</b>
<b>Introduction</b>
Dr. Lenore Walker, a licensed psychologist, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Walker &amp; Associates, a Denver based consulting firm providing clinical and forensic psychological services worldwide. She received her doctorate in Psychology from Rutgers - The State University in 1992. In her career, she has focused on psychological injury from post-traumatic stress disorders, the intersection of psychology and the law, feminist issues and their relationship to the practice of psychotherapy, and women's mental health policy.
Walker holds a Diplomate in Clinical Psychology from the American Board of Professional Psychology and, in 1983, was elected a Fellow of the American Psychological Association. She has published several books and articles concerning women's issues as well as a video. She consults with businesses and governmental agencies throughout the world concerning family violence.
<b>Transcript</b>
This transcript is an initial therapy session with Dr. Walker and Gina, a black female, where the presenting issue is Gina’s relationship with her ex-husband.
<b>THERAPY SESSION WITH DR. LENORE WALKER AND GINA</b>
TH 1: All right, well, we are going to talk for about 45 minutes or so, maybe a little bit longer if we need it. And I know I don't know very much about you at all.
CL 1: Okay.
TH 2: So, I'm going to let you do a lot of the talking.
CL 2: Okay (laughter).
TH 3: But you can know a little bit about me, too.
CL 3: All right, okay.
TH 4: So, I don't know what you've been told, but I'm a psychologist. My name is Dr. Lenore Walker, [all right] and I'm from Denver, Colorado [uh huh] now, and, you know you can ask me some questions if you want.
CL 4: Okay.
TH 5: You know, like where I went to school or those kind of things if that's important to you, or whatever, at any point, but you certainly are welcome to ask me anything now before we start. Because we will talk about some personal stuff, and it's only fair, that you can. I might not answer . . .
CL 5: Well, that's all right. (laughter)
TH 6: You might not answer what I ask, so [that's true] Yeah, so . . .
CL 6: What is your area of specialty?
TH 7: My specialization is working with battered women [okay] and child abuse victims [okay]. So, that's really what I specialize in and in feminist therapy, therapy with women.
CL 7: All right. That's pretty good. We'll get along real good. (laughter)
TH 8: All right.
CL 8: I'm in my pro-woman stage now, so . . .
TH 9: That's why I asked you where you worked out. (laughter)
CL 9: Yeah, I see that now. Oh, yes definitely. (laughter)
TH 10: Um, I, all I know is just the little bit we were chatting before. So, I know that you have done this before, [yes] and I know you've been in therapy for a while.
CL 10: Yes, I have.
TH 11: So, you know the game of therapy. The talk, you know, and back and forth. Really what I think we can do today because it's just a kind of short initial time, is to explore some of the things that have been going on in your life, some things that are good, some things that haven't been so good, uh. I'll get to know you a little bit and then I'll try to give you a little feedback at the end as to what I see is going on. [okay] How's that sound?
CL 11: Sounds good. I can definitely talk, so . . . (laughter)
TH 12: And if, if, you know, if, sometimes I'll take some notes or something if that's okay with you.
CL 12: Oh, sure that's fine.
TH 13: Just grab my pad [yeah] and sometimes I don't.
CL 13: So I won't feel hurt if you don't take notes.
TH 14: It does not mean I'm not listening.
CL 14: Okay, all right, that's all right. That will be fine.
TH 15: So, why don't you give me, a little, um, maybe just a little kind of overview of, of, you know, what you're doing now and what life's like for you. I know you have a son.
CL 15: I actually have two sons, I have two sons.
TH 16: Okay. How old?
CL 16: 12, in seventh grade, and eight. . .
TH 17: The basketball star.
CL 17: Yes, that's the basketball player. He's real happy that he made the seventh grade team, and I'm real proud of him. [oh, yeah] He's been destined to do this since he was 2 years old. [all right] He was going to eventually get on his school team to represent his school and wear the uniform and all of that, and he is just on cloud nine. I'm so happy for him. [that's neat] And it's, it's, I'm very proud watching him today, playing the game.
TH 18: Is this the first game?
CL 18: First home game. So it's one of many more for the rest of my life. [you'll be there] I just see myself for years, but that's okay. It is different now [mhm] watching him at the higher level than in the park district different leagues that we're in. [uh huh] Just weekend kind of basketball. So, and my youngest is eight. He's in third grade, and he's getting into the athletics. He, um, likes to do it, I think. But sometimes I wonder is he doing it just because big brother's doing it?' but if I ask that, he goes, No, no, I like it. He's got big plans, what he's going to do and everything, so it's kind of nice.
TH 19: Is he playing anything now?
CL 19: Yeah, he just finished playing soccer, [ah huh] and they are going to go into basketball starting this Saturday. [oh, wow] So, they have a third and fourth grade team. At least fourth grade park district league. He can't play on a team because they don't have it at that level, [right] but that's where my oldest started. So, he's real excited about doing that, and he actually is kind of theatrical. He just did the third grade. At the school where he is going they put on an opera every year.
TH 20: An opera?
CL 20: Yeah, an opera. They pick an opera. They did the Magic Flute.
TH 21: Oh, how exciting.
CL 21: And he was the prince.
TH 22: He was the prince.
CL 22: And he did really good, he's my child, but I was very proud of him. He carried it off perfectly. He did the ad-libbing with the singing and the arm movements, and there, it was, he, that is his, his calling. He needs to really do that more. I am going to encourage him to maybe do that if he gets involved with, like the park district has classes on acting, [mhm] and they can audition for small plays and things like that. [mhm] There is a church activity group that he's in that he likes to do that. So I think we are going to see if he wants to explore that a little bit, because he does like it.
TH 23: And this is the little one?
CL 23: This is my youngest.
TH 24: Wow.
CL 24: So they each have their own way of doing things. They both do well in math, so I'm real happy about that. And probably because I did well in math. So they like that, and science. Math and science they really enjoy.
TH 25: Now are you working now?
CL 25: Yes. Mhm, I'm a teacher. I teach chemistry.
TH 26: Oh boy. So you did do well in math and science, didn't you?
CL 26: Yes I did, yes I did. I've always liked those kinds of areas. And oftentimes the kind of feminine part of it, I don't find women going into those different fields. [no] I was at a conference this past weekend, and most of the teachers that were there were male. [uh huh] You know, very few females. [uh huh] And that always gets me going, [uh huh] because it should be more, and I always encourage the girls in my class to pursue the sciences and the math and don't you know, push [mhm] it aside. [mm] It was funny too because when they pair up in lab groups, I sometimes have coed groups, and the girls usually tell the guys what to do. They take charge of the situation, and I like that a lot.
TH 27: What grade do you teach?
CL 27: I have mostly sophomores, [uh huh] a few juniors, a couple of seniors that have to take that last science before they graduate. [ah huh] And this is my fifth year in high school. I taught six years before that at junior high level.
TH 28: And you like the high school better?
CL 28: Yeah, I do. [mhm] I like the high school. Yeah. I'm teaching kids and not hormones as much. In junior high you get a lot of those hormones and a lot of nurturing, and they need attention, because they can't help it, and I'm kind of in that situation with my 12 year old because he's hitting that stage. I'm like, oh boy, now I have to deal with what I've been working with. But I have an advantage because I've taught, and I kind of know what to expect, and he knows that, and actually he likes it. [ah huh] That has not been a problem with mom being a teacher going to different things, and they actually kind of expect me to do things. If I don't do something, Mom, why didn't you say something? Like, well I was being mom not teacher. But they kind of want me to step up and do things.
TH 29: Are you in the same school district as they are?
CL 29: No, I'm not. No, I'm in a different school district. And my youngest actually wants to be in one of my classes one day. So, we'll see. We might, and we might not. But it has been an advantage for them with me being a teacher, whereas, sometimes it can be a disadvantage. [mhm] They actually do like it. [mhm] They do, and I'm glad of that cause it could be a problem.
TH 30: Now, are you married now?
CL 30: No, I'm going through a divorce which is almost final. [uh huh] And I'm quite happy about it by the way.
TH 31: Okay, I figured you're in your pro-woman stage, there might be something there.
CL 31: Yes definitely. [okay] And it's actually getting toward the end. [uh huh] It's not so painful and hurtful anymore. [mhm] I've come into my own, you know within the last two years. [mhm] We were married almost 15 years.
TH 32: That's a long time.
CL 32: Yeah, it is. [mhm] And I stuck it through for about 13. And then I [uh huh] realized I'm not happy. I wasn't happy, and actually woke up New Year's Day two years ago and said I've got to change. This is not going to work. I can't keep going around in circles. I'm not going forward at all. [mhm] I keep going backwards. And that's when I started counseling. I called up Governors State actually and got into the counseling program here and then I continued it with South Suburban Women's Shelter.
TH 33: Ah ha, a battered women's shelter.
CL 33: Yes.
TH 34: So you were abused?
CL 34: Yes.
TH 35: Physically?
CL 35: Yes.
TH 36: Mentally?
CL 36: Yes.
TH 37: Sexually?
CL 37: No. Verbally also.
TH 38: Mhm.
CL 38: Yeah, so that was probably the most out of all of the, um, the physical didn't happen on that many occasions. [mhm] But that was the breaking point for me to realize that this is it. I've got to really do something with this marriage.
TH 39: When was the first time that he physically hit you?
CL 39: Uh, I'm trying to remember. It was the first or second year we were married.
TH 40: Uh huh. Do you remember the incident?
CL 40: Oh yes. Very much so.
TH 41: Tell me about it.
CL 41: We had disagreed on something, [uh huh] and he wouldn't actually hear me through, [mhm] which at the time was very frustrating for me. And I don't even remember what I did. I don't know if I like pushed him or just to get his attention, but he hit me, in my face.
TH 42: Slapped you?
CL 42: Yeah.
TH 43: Open hand?
CL 43: Um, yeah, it was open hand, but it wasn't as hard as the second time he did it, so . . .
TH 44: Just one time?
CL 44: Yeah. And I was in the kitchen. I remembered what happened, and at that point it was like, oh my goodness. And it was really a struggle for me because I had told myself up to that point that if the man ever hit me, that was it. He was out of my life, forget it. But that didn't happen.
TH 45: What happened, what did he do afterwards?
CL 45: I think he said he was sorry, but then he said that I caused it to happen.
TH 46 And did you believe it?
CL 46: Yes I did. [mhm] I did. Because I really thought I'd pushed him to a point where he didn't have any boundaries or any way to deal with it, and yes I did think it was my fault.
TH 47: Mhm. Do you still?
CL 47: No, I don't anymore. [mhm] No, because you don't have to get to that point.
TH 48: But it took you a while to get . . .
CL 48: Oh, it took me a long time, took me a long time to realize that. And it's funny because when you are in it, you can't see it. When I look at other people outside of what I am, I could easily spot it. But it's real hard to spot it with you, and I almost believe that it wasn't really the case. It's hard for me even now to say I'm an abused woman, because I still see myself that way. Yet, I know I was. And it's been dif . . . that's probably one of the hardest things to come to terms with.
TH 49: So, you also see yourself as a strong woman.
CL 49: Yes. Yes.
TH 50: So, of course, it's very difficult to know that, you know, you can be strong and be an abused woman at the same time.
CL 50: Yes. Yeah, it is tough [mhm] yeah, but . . .
TH 51: Tell me, tell me the last incident that happened.
CL 51: Um, the last incident, we had not communicated in probably about three months. [mhm] We needed to talk about things, talk about the relationship.
TH 52: You were still living together?
CL 52: We were still living together, yes. Still sharing the same bedroom and all of that. [Uh huh] And we hadn't communicated, and we needed to talk. I'm a talker. I need to talk. I can't sit on problems. Let's talk about them, let's work it out. Whether we agree or not, I need to communicate. And he shut me out. And for about three months we didn't talk about feelings, what we are going to do, how we are going to fix this, any, any of those things. And one day I decided I wanted to talk, and he had to listen to me, and I wanted him to say something, but he didn't want to do that. He avoided me by moving to different rooms, going upstairs, going downstairs, and I followed him because it was one of those days, I said, I'm going to get this done because this is crazy. We can't keep going like this. And he just downright refused. And it was so frustrating that at one point I just took my hands and went Can't you just listen to me? And I didn't really hit him or anything, it's just that I needed him to stop moving and let's talk about this. And he put his hands around my neck and pushed me back against the wall and continued pushing me down the stairs [mhm] and said a couple of things, yelling and screaming, things like that, and I'm on the stairs like, I don't believe he just did that. You didn't listen to me. I got back up went back and confronted him again saying look, you've got to talk because this is crazy. He then pushed me down, picked up a chair to get ready to hit me, didn't but put the chair down and ended up kicking me, and well actually no, he did put his hands around me. He pushed, grabbed my wrists, twisted, and pushed me up against the wall and pushed me out of the bathroom, down the stairs. After he kicked me I still got up, tried to like, this, he's not really listening to me, I can get through to him. This is important, and at that point he put his hands around me and was getting ready to choke me, and at that point I realized you're not going to get through to this man, so just stop. And he didn't choke me, but there was a look on his face that I've never seen before and, it was like, huh, I'm not going to get up in his face again, and at that point I then removed myself and went to the bedroom, and for the rest of the evening, [uh huh] cause this happened about 12:30 in the morning. We attempted to try to discuss it, but it didn't work, it didn't work. [mhm] And then about a half hour after it happened, I went down stairs and came back upstairs. My youngest was there, and my first concern was oh my gosh what did he see, what did he hear, oh no, and I still think he might have heard and maybe saw something, but it's never come out. I don't think he's traumatized by it, [mhm] but I still wonder if he saw it and heard it and . . .
TH 53: Have you asked him?
CL 53: Yes I have.
TH 54: And he said. . .
CL 54: And he said no, he said I just heard you guys talking, that's all, I didn't' you know. So, I had to convince myself that that was okay. And I still, I don't worry about it too much now because I know they are a lot happier. [mhm] Things are going much better now. [mhm] But that happened in April of 1995. And I didn't tell anybody about it until Mother's Day of 1995. I told my mom. (wow) about it. That was the first time I had told her about anything. She thought that that was happening all along in our marriage, um. . .
TH 55: Did she say why she thought that?
CL 55: Because she saw how he was as a person, and she knew how I was as a person.
TH 56: Was he very demanding?
CL 56: Yes. Very much.
TH 57: Controlling?
CL 57: Yes.
TH 58: Argumentative?
CL 58: Yes, yeah, definitely yes, yeah. But very much in need of some things that I thought I could give him. He was an adopted child. [mhm] He says he had a happy childhood. I wonder sometimes if he did. [mhm] I knew he wasn't a happy person when I met him, but I thought I had enough happiness for both of us and I could make him happy, and I did my best. I tried. And it's funny because now when people hear that we are getting a divorce they are so shocked. You all looked so fine, and, and, and we did. I did a real good job on the outside.
TH 59: You covered up well.
CL 59: Yeah, I did. And, the, when we came back home it all unraveled and it was still there, you know. It is funny because I am seeing a man right now, and he said, you know when we go out you pay me a whole lot of attention, but when we are alone, you don't. And I'm like, yeah what about it? You know, it's okay. But he says, You know what I think? You are so used to doing that, that you can't get out of that.[interesting] And I went, okay. Never thought about that, and I really did think about it and he's right. I have been going through those motions for so long [mhm] that I'm still doing that and it's a different person.
TH 60: What happens if he gets angry with you?
CL 60: The guy I'm seeing? I don't worry about it anymore. One, because the first thing I say is he's a man. That's the first reaction I say, but he points out that he's different and don't compare me. But I don't take it so personally anymore. I don't take it as an attack upon my intelligence or my feelings or my situation. Um, he hasn't gotten that upset which is kind of nice too. We talk very openly about things. [mhm] We don't let a day go by that we don't deal with it. Well, we did let one day go by. We did have a day where we cooled off with something.
TH 61: Now, are you living together?
CL 61: No.
TH 62: But you see each other every day?
CL 62: No, we don't. No. Basically we see each other weekends, [mhm] and we are dating. We're not serious. I'm not serious with anyone. I won't be serious for a while. But, um, it is interesting, you know, [mhm] to start getting back into dating and to be single again, um . . .
TH 63: Is that hard?
CL 63: No, if it's done the way I want it to be done, it's not hard.
TH 64: What's the way you want it to be done?
CL 64: To not have commitment and no attachments, [mhm] just to be friends and to enjoy each other's company with no seriousness right now.
TH 65: Can you do that with the guys you meet?
CL 65: So far, yeah. He's the only one that's putting any opposition to it right now.
TH 66: But you are only dating one guy at a time?
CL 66: No, I'm not.
TH 67: You're dating others?
CL 67: Yes.
TH 68: Are you dating African American men?
CL 68: Yes.
TH 69: Are they more, some of my friends tell me that they are more demanding of commitment and of your time than some of the other guys.
CL 69: Well, my husband was. [uh huh] And the guy that I'm talking about now is. I don't know if all of them are, but . . .
TH 70: Of course, not everybody.
CL 70: But, I'm open to see if there is a difference, to be honest with you. I do know that when I've gone to a couple of clubs or I was at a restaurant this Saturday, and we were waiting to be seated, a whole group of us, and there was a white guy that did start talking to me. I just started talking. I'll talk to probably anybody. I'll talk to dogs on the street, cats on the corner, (laughter), I'll just do that. It's me. And for some reason just started talking to me and I just kept talking. Because I'm at a point in my life where there is nothing wrong with a little conversation. Sometimes people just need to know that somebody's listening to them.
TH 71: Would your husband have been jealous of you doing that?
CL 71: Oh absolutely, oh absolutely.
TH 72: So you wouldn't have done that if you were out with him.
CL 72: No, no. So in a lot of ways, I'm sort of busting out as they say, doing things that I've always done until we got together.
TH 73: And your boys now see you do that?
CL 73: See me talking to other people?
TH 74: To other people without a big fuss?
CL 74: Yes. They'll say, Mom, why did that person start talking to you? And I'll say, You know, I really don't know. I guess they were lonely and just wanted to say something. And they are like oh okay, and they're okay. [mhm] They have met this one guy, and they are very open about it. [mhm] I told them he is not going to be your father. He is just a friend, nothing serious and all of that, and they say, Yeah, we know Mom, it's okay. They are really pretty good about it. But it was kind of easy. I was worried at first.
TH 75: Do they have contact with their dad?
CL 75: Yes they do.
TH 76: And is he good with them?
CL 76: Yes. Pretty much.
TH 77: Do you think he is going to handle adolescence well?
CL 77: I think so, um. But I still think he is growing up too. [mhm] And not to put it all on him, I'm still growing up too. I have just found myself again, and I actually have a new way of looking at myself, and I like it. And I am constantly evolving. This is not, I'm going to be this way forever. [mhm] I am changing daily sometimes, weekly, and I've got some growing up to do, and I know he does too, and some of the growing up might conflict, you know, with them, and there may be some problems. Sometimes I don't think the children feel comfortable with him because I know I didn't feel comfortable with him [mhm] on some things. So that could cause some problems where they don't feel comfortable talking to him about things.
TH 78: Mhm. Do they talk to you about that?
CL 78: Yes, they do, yes they do. [mhm] We communicate very openly. I'm really, really happy about that. [mm] That is one of the things that I think will get me through this adolescent period is that I do talk openly with my children. I call things the way they are, we talk about girls, we talk about guys, we talk about sex, we talk about anything. I never criticize them for it. At least I try not to. I don't think I do, but I have always told them you can talk about anything here. But if there are things that you don't want to talk about, please go to their uncles. You can go to grandpa, but grandpa is from the older generation, so you may not want to talk about some things with grandpa.
TH 79: Now this is your father?
CL 79: Yeah, my father.
TH 80: So you have a relationship with your father and mother?
CL 80: Oh yes. Both my parents are alive, yes.
TH 81: And you are close with them?
CL 81: Yes, yes.
TH 82: They live nearby?
CL 82: Yes. They live in the city. And I wasn't always, I was close growing up, [uh huh] got married, wasn't too close.
TH 81: Was that, that was going to be my next question. Did he not like that?
CL 83: No, he liked us, immediate family, and probably felt threatened by my family, [mhm] pointed out errors in my family and things that he didn't like, and I actually believed some of those. At one point to prove my love for him I did not communicate with my family for over a year.
TH 83: Mm. Do you feel guilty about that now?
CL 84: No, I don't. I did earlier, but I don't now. [mhm] I don't really feel guilty about anything I've done. If I had to do it all over, if you put me back in the same time, knowing me, the fact that I really believed what I was doing was right, I probably would do everything again, [mhm] except maybe once abuse started. I think I would probably pull out then because those were definitely signs that I did not pick up on. I was too stubborn and too convinced I could change him when you really can't change people. [mhm] They are going to be who they are going to be, and you just hope that you can get to a certain point where you can work together with it. [mhm] I had a hard time accepting the differences. I wanted to change the differences because they were too big, and if I didn't change them, that would mean that we'd have problems.
TH 84: Did you know his family?
CL 84: Not extremely well.
TH 85: Did they live nearby?
CL 85: Yeah, they did. Actually I did. I did know them fairly well. Yeah, um, [mhm] but there were problems when he was growing up too. I know his mom and I were kind of close. We talked about things, you know, [mhm] and that he had trouble following through on things. He procrastinated. He didn't want to take blame sometimes. Very stubborn, wanted to do it his way and no other way. His mom and I would say well yeah maybe we could do this and maybe we could do that, [mhm] and we both tried to, you know, fix things.
TH 86: Did she try to, um, do that for her husband, too?
CL 86: I think so, yeah, I think so.
TH 87: Did you ever notice any kind of emotional or verbal kinds of cruelty?
CL 87: Ah, no I didn't. During, but I, I sometimes questioned it thinking like the apple doesn't fall from the tree and you are raised a certain way. Um, I know his mother loved her husband, [uh huh] but I also know too that she wasn't as totally happy as she could be.
TH 88: Did, did you see any of that kind of abuse when you were growing up?
CL 88: No, m-mm.
TH 89: You have brothers?
CL 89: Yes, I have two brothers and a sister. I am the oldest.
TH 90: You're the oldest.
CL 90: Out of four, and my parents argued . . .
TH 91: You are how old?
CL 91: I'm 38.
TH 92: And your . . .
CL 92: My sister is 36, my brother will be 35, [uh huh] and I have a brother who is 28. [uh huh] So, um, we were a pretty close family. We stayed pretty much amongst ourselves. We went out and things, but my mom had a real close handle on all of us.
TH 93: She knew where everybody was?
CL 93: Yeah. And that's her. I know how that is. If she had her wish, she probably would have all of us live in one house with her. She could have a closed eye, but yet she would say she would not get into our business, but yet, she does, and that's that mom thing. But see, I understand that because, at least I think I understand that. She was adopted as well, [uh huh] and it is very important for her to have her family close to her. Her family is very, very important to her, and I can understand why, you know being adopted.
TH 94: So you got those values from her.
CL 94: Yes, yes I did. [mhm] Growing up my mom and dad argued, [mhm] but it was always the situation where my dad would leave until he cooled down, and then he would come back and they would work it out. My dad never hit my mother. [mhm] He wouldn't dare. My mother is too strong a person to let that happen.
TH 95: What kind of occupation did your dad have?
CL 95: My dad is a teacher and so is my mom. My dad still, he teaches at college at Kennedy King, and my mom is actually an administrator.
TH 96: What does he teach?
CL 96: He teaches, he's graphic arts, communications, offset printing, publications, all that kind of thing at Kennedy King College in the city, and my mother started as a Head Start aide and worked her way through school and became a teacher, got her master's and her certificate and became an administrator so she now oversees 35 or more preschool sites around the south side of the city.
TH 97: Wow. It sounds like you are proud of her.
CL 97: Oh, I am. I am very much so. I am.
TH 98: And how about your sister's and brothers? Are they all teachers too?
CL 98: Nope, nope they're not. Although my youngest brother is getting the hang of it because he is working with my dad right now in the printing department and he also has been helping teach some of the classes, so I think he is getting the bug. He is. I think he is getting it, and he has been talking about getting certified as a tennis instructor so he can also teach tennis. So, I think he will probably do it. But I didn't start out that way. I was going a totally different direction but very, very happy where I am now. I wouldn't do anything else but teach. [uh huh] I really like it. It gives me everything that I want. [mhm] I gives me a career. It gives me satisfaction in helping people which is something I like to do. It kind of puts me up on a pedestal [mhm] in a way which I like, and yet it gives me time to be a mom and spend time with my kids and to raise them and do as much as I can with them [mhm] which is what I wanted.
TH 99: Now, how often do they see their dad?
CL 99: Once a week and every other weekend.
TH 100: So that gives you some time also to spend with friends.
CL 100: Yes, yes it does.
TH 101: Did you have to develop all new women friends after you started getting divorced?
CL 101: No, actually I haven't gotten many more, I haven't got any new women friends. I have the same women friends that I've had all through my marriage. A couple have developed since working at the high school and even at the junior high before I taught at this high school so that I have a couple of new friends, but they are like five, six years old in friendship. [right] So that, um, I haven't really developed any new female friends.
TH 102: So, you didn't let yourself get too isolated?
CL 102: Yeah, I did. I did. There would be times when my girlfriend would say come on and go out, and then he'd look sad, and I'd say, Oh that's okay. I want to stay home. He would make me feel guilty about going out and then I would stay home and I shouldn't have did that. I should have went out because there was nothing wrong with me going out. It didn't threaten our relationship any, but I think it did for him. [mhm] I know he was insecure about some things as all of us are, but I basically never did anything that would make him think otherwise, [mhm] that he couldn't see, when I went out with my friends I'm a better person when I come back. I'll be a better wife when I come back because I had a chance to be me, and then once I get that taken care of, then I can jump back into the role of being a wife, and we will all win in this situation.
TH 103: But batterers don't like that.
CL 103: No.
TH 104: You can't be me, you have to be him. So what made you decide that you were battered. Was it the last incident or was it before then.
CL 104: Yeah. It was the last incident [mhm] that made me really say that I was a battered woman.
TH 105: Mhm. And what did you do?
CL 105: The next day I called the police.
TH 106: Good for you.
CL 106: But I never filled out a report.
TH 107: How did you get the courage to even call?
CL 107: Oh, I had called before, I had called before.
TH 108: Had you filed a report before?
CL 108: No, I never filed an official report.
TH 109: What was the worst incident that happened?
CL 109: Probably this last one.
TH 110: Before, how about before that.
CL 110: Before that, well it's a toss up between two. Once when I got slapped in the face on the middle of the highway.
TH 111: In the car?
CL 111: No, outside the car, um. That probably more so than when he spit in my face and called me a bitch. That probably is enough. I still feel that slap. I still feel it to this day.
TH 112: And that was when you said that it was a harder slap with an open hand.
CL 112: Yeah, yeah.
TH 113: Is that when you called the police?
CL 113: No, because I wasn't in the city. I was out of town. When he spit in my face I called the police then. I did because I didn't know what else to do, and I figured okay, that's just like hitting me. Fine. I'm calling the police on you. And they came and basically they said we should spend time away, you know. He should leave. He didn't. He stayed upstairs, I stayed downstairs.
TH 114: And they didn't make an arrest?
CL 114: No, they didn't. No, it's real hard to do that, and I wasn't willing to press charges.
TH 115: How long ago was it?
CL 115: That was about maybe four years ago. Well, no, maybe about three years ago, 1994.
TH 116: And you still had to press charges.
CL 116: I did. I filed a complaint, and the police made a report of it, but nothing was ever really done, um, because I felt it was my fault again. Yeah, I did.
TH 117: That's what happens, yeah.
CL 117: I thought it was my fault that I made him do that. It's not all that bad. I really don't want to get divorced. I would really like to work this out and all of those things I tried to convince myself of. Even it's hard for me to say well I was just hit in the face. I still find it hard to say that that was abuse, but it is. Of course it is. I know it is.
TH 118: Of course it is. And it sounds like it wasn't just a spit in the face. We have all these other incidents, and it sounds like you had a lot of psychological and verbal abuse as well.
CL 118: Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah. I mean he would criticize what I would wear. You shouldn't wear that, you don't look right in that, and I would go like okay, what would you like me to wear?' And it doesn't make sense. That's one of the reasons my girlfriends would get so mad. It's like, you are so intelligent, why do you do that? [mhm] But when you are in love, and you think you are doing the right thing, it is very easy to follow along with that, you know. [mhm] But the other incidents and I didn't have any bruises or any marks from it, so it didn't stay with me, but the last incidents where I went down the stairs, I had bruises from that. I did.
TH 119: Did you seek medical . . .
CL 119: No I didn't, no I didn't. Um, but . . .
TH 120: So you told him you wanted a divorce?
CL 120: I did.
TH 121: And how does he handle it?
CL 121: He didn't like it. To this day he still doesn't want it. [mhm] But he has accepted the fact that this is going to happen, and he claims he is ready to move on [mhm] and to go on with his life and let me go on with my life.
TH 122: So he didn't get worse afterwards?
CL 122: Um, no. Because I told myself, I won't put myself in that situation again. Whenever the . . .
TH 123: Did he separate at that point?
CL 123: No, I did.
TH 124: So, you just left with the kids?
CL 124: Yeah, well actually, that happened in April of 1995.
TH 125: And you told your mom the next month.
CL 125: Yeah, mhm.
TH 126: And they were supportive?
CL 126: Very supportive. They didn't interfere, but we had a code on the phone that if something happens I would just pick the phone up and hit a number and they knew to just come out and help me. My brothers basically, yeah. I never used it, but we did have that system set up. [excellent] But I also told them that you don't have to worry about this happening again because I'm not going to confront him. The abuse happens when I confront him.
TH 127: The physical abuse.
CL 127: Yes.
TH 128: But the emotional abuse happens no matter what.
CL 128: Right. It happened in April of 1995. In July of 1995 we stopped having sex.
TH 129: At your instigation?
CL 129: Yes. And then October of 1995 I moved out of the bedroom and slept on the couch Thanksgiving, and at that point I told the boys that mom and dad are going to get a divorce. Then, during the month of October I asked him to leave. I gave him until the end of the year because the lease was in my name. I paid for everything. It was my place, you should leave. I shouldn't leave. Why should I uproot the children and myself. You leave. He said he would move by the end of the year. December 31st came, didn't move. January, didn't move. February, March, April, did not move. We went to court for the first time with the divorce in April of 1996, and at that point he asked me for alimony and maintenance to maintain the kind of lifestyle he was accustomed to. My lawyer asked me can you leave? I went I'm out of the house now. It's like (snaps finger) I didn't even blink. I said, I can go now. So after having left with my brother and thinking about it and realizing now don't go move back home with mom, I decided I'll move. And Mother's Day of this year I moved into a two bedroom apartment, [mhm] took the kids with me, and moved and have been very happy since then.
TH 130: Uh huh. Good for you.
CL 130: Yeah, I'm slow, but once I get my mind made up . . .
TH 131: You certainly are . . . that doesn't sound like that was easy for you to do at all.
CL 131: April was rough, but May was very easy. Moving was very easy. It was very very easy. But um . . .
TH 132: So you were really only out about five months, six months, mhm.
CL 132: Yeah. Physically. But mentally, in my heart and all of that, it's been over a year, yeah. [mhm] It happened that Mother's Day when I told my mom. When I finally told my mom about that, that did it for me.
TH 133: Do you think that's why you didn't tell her before? Was because you knew . . .
CL 133: Oh yeah, the disappointment.
TH 134: Once you told her you knew you'd have to do something?
CL 134: Somewhat, yeah. [mhm] And I was still apprehensive about making that decision, but looking at it, and I was going through counseling at the time too, [right] it was very clear that, no, this is not going to get any better.
TH 135: And he never got into counseling?
CL 135: He did a little bit in September of last year, of 1995, he went through counseling, um. He wanted us to go through counseling together, and I said no. [mhm] We had done that twice before, [mhm] and there was no way. [mhm] No way.
TH 136: Did he admit to his abusiveness?
CL 136: No, to this day. He says I instigated it. I basically hit him first. I had physical contact with him first.
TH 137: Do you believe that?
CL 137: I did touch his body first in all cases, [mhm] but I don't believe it was abuse on my part. I am a very physical person. I have to be careful being a teacher naturally. That's my way of saying hey focus on me, we got to talk, this is important, but he makes it the other way.
TH 138: But you also learned, I mean, you know, think about your ability to understand that if you did that [mhm] then it would get more physical. Now he had the responsibility of not responding to you.
CL 138: Exactly. I do believe he did not have to go the way he went. I know that. I know now too that I don't have to do that anymore either. [right] That I've learned.
TH 139: So you protected yourself.
CL 139: Yes, that's why I knew it wasn't going to happen again, because I knew the only time he did that was when I confronted him. I could stop myself. I just thought, I don't have to do that. I can just, you know . . .
TH 140: He hasn't gotten crazy during the separation and pending divorce?
CL 140: As far as I know, no.
TH 141: Because you know some batterers do. [yeah] So just watch out for it.
CL 141: Yeah. My girlfriends have been telling me that, and I do watch, you know, to make sure, um, but so far everything is okay. But it is not far from my mind.
TH 142: Is he working?
CL 142: Uh, yes. He wasn't but now he is.
TH 143: What does he do?
CL 143: He is a coach, basketball coach which is why his son plays basketball.
TH 144: Your son's team?
CL 144: No, no. He is at the college level.
TH 145: So he doesn't have to show up at the same games that you do.
CL 145: Yes, he was there today. [Uh huh] I saw him . . .
TH 146: And that's okay?
CL 146: Um, yeah. It's okay. I don't hate him.
TH 147: Does he know you have a boyfriend or that you date?
CL 147: Uh, he probably does if the boys talk which they do. And I sure, I'm not going to tell my boys, sh, don't tell him. No. I'm not going to do that. He probably does know. [mhm] And that will be interesting to see what happens with that. The world is too small of a place for us to not ever come into contact with each other.
TH 148: Especially with the children.
CL 148: Yeah, exactly, with little kids. Um, and just the same interests that we have that we could eventually cross paths. So that will be interesting to see. Um, I don't feel there is anything wrong with it. I don't have any connection with him anymore, I don't have to prove anything. I don't have to defend anything with him anymore. So I think I will be fine with the situation, and I would hope that he would be okay with it too.
TH 149: What makes you think he will be so mature? He hasn't been so mature.
CL 149: I know, I know. It's my hopeful thinking. It really doesn't matter, because I will deal with it when it happens.
TH 150: Or it does matter just to stay safe.
CL 150: Yes. I tried not to . . .
TH 151: That tends to be an aggravator for some men, not all, [yeah] but for some, and in this case it could be. So just be, you were together for a long time. Just be careful.
CL 151: I will, thank you, yeah. I appreciate that because sometimes I get this rosy picture, everything's going to be fine, and then I quickly think, wait a minute. Was it really? So, it's something that I definitely . . .
TH 152: But that's a, that's a lingering kind of thing having been abused that you deny and you minimize everything so that you don't want to deal with how bad it could get.
CL 152: And part of me says why should I? Like, I know that this one particular man that I am dating, he might even come to a game. Why can't he come? But then it's like, well he's going to be there.
TH 153: He's in your face.
CL 153: Yeah, it is, and I don't want to do that. But, yet, finally goes but why do I have to, and the answer is because I'm the one that's mature in this situation. (yeah) And it's not that big of a deal, and maybe as time goes on it will become easier. Now it's too new and too soon. [right] So I'm not going to aggravate the situation like that. I will be the mature person in this, and it's fine. So it will be . . .
TH 154: Well, you're feisty, you know. You have a little . . .
CL 154: Yeah, I am. And that feels really good, it does. But it is going to present problems with the guys I go out with because I refuse to let go.
TH 155: Do you tell them?
CL 155: Yeah.
TH 156: And what's their reaction?
CL 156: Don't worry, it will be okay. I understand. Because the first thing, I say, I say look, I'm divorced, I'm raising two kids, I'm not going to get serious. I'm into myself, and I'm going to be that way. I'm going to be very selfish right now but it doesn't mean that we can't spend time together, that we won't have fun, but if you want a lot from me now, you are not going to be able to get it, and if you need that now then this is not going to work. [mhm] And they appreciate the honesty. [mhm] They do.
TH 157: Do they believe you?
CL 157: Yeah. Yeah, they do.
TH 158: Mhm. How do you know who to select? What clues do you . . .
CL 158: Well, one person that I am seeing I've known since first grade, so we have been friends for years. [uh huh] So that was just . . .
TH 159: Comfortable.
CL 159: Yeah, very, very, very comfortable, yes. I don't know. If they seem nice. Okay there was one particular guy gave me my personal space when we met, it was a dance, actually it was a party, and he gave me enough space. He didn't crowd me right away. He kept distance between us, and we had conversations at a certain distance. That made an impression with me. Because he allowed me my space. He didn't start coming into my personal space which I've learned through the counseling that I'm entitled to have and should have.
TH 160: Good for you.
CL 160: And just talked about the same kinds of things, um. Similar interests. [mhm] Seemed to treat me with respect. [mhm] Wasn't pushy, and seemed like he would be an interesting person to meet. Um, I'm trying not to be too picky because everyone has their own way of doing things. [uh huh] So it is kind of their appearance, how they handle themselves. They don't have to be knock down gorgeous for me, um, but if they carry themselves well, can hold a conversation, give me my prerogative, as they say, as a woman, recognizes the things about me and praises me and can appreciate me, that, you have my interest. And then we'll see where we go from there.
TH 161: Do you, when you meet somebody, do you get a sense if some guy is really going to be a problem? [mhm, mhm] Is there a place in your body that you feel, how do you know that this guy is . . .
CL 161: If they invade my personal space immediately. That sets me off. You don't have the right. I haven't given you permission yet. Just hold up a minute here. We may do this, and we may not. If they are rude to other people, [mhm] if they have not complimented me right away, or not right away, or at least in our conversation they haven't picked out something that they like about me. [mhm] That didn't happen with my husband. Now, I'm not saying that everybody has to compliment me, but I know I like that, [mhm] and I'm worthy of that, [right] and that should come out. Because that means you are seeing me for me.
TH 162: Is there any place physiologically when you start to get scared that you feel it?
CL 162: When they get too possessive.
TH 163: Uh huh, but how does your body tell you that?
CL 163: My space gets closer. Don't come in contact with me.
TH 164: You start to get stiffer?
CL 164: Mhm, mhm.
TH 165: Do you feel it in your stomach, your head, or you just feel yourself pulling back and withdrawing?
CL 165: Yes, I feel that I need to remove myself from that. [uh huh] My stomach doesn't hurt, my head doesn't hurt.
TH 166: But you listen to that.
CL 166: I close up. Conversation stops. I start thinking and figuring things out, and this happened with one particular guy because he was going fast [mhm] and I wasn't comfortable with him coming into my space. It was funny because he had stayed, he spent the night, and my kids were away with their dad or whatever, and it was very uncomfortable for me. It was too soon, and I really liked the way he handled it. He didn't take it offensively, and he said well do you want me to go? And I went go, where are you going to go? You didn't drive, I drove. He said well I have a friend nearby and I can spend the day with him. I was like how are you going to get there? And he said I'll walk. I'm like you are going to just walk in? That said a lot to me. He recognized that I needed personal space, that I felt uncomfortable, and that there was no problem with him leaving. And I was like No, you don't have to leave, but I'm just telling you right now I feel very uncomfortable, and I will hopefully get through this. and he gave me my space. He did. And that was kind of nice.
TH 167: Do you ever get fearful? Do you have any fears or get very anxious about things where you can't figure out where it's coming from?
CL 167: Hm, with my son being an adolescent, yeah. [mhm] With men . . .
TH 168: Or even just in general. Do you ever have, like, sit and think about what's happening or just sitting down and then things popping in your head, then you . . .
CL 168: I've been doing that lately. I've been so busy sometimes just doing things and I would keep busy to escape the situation. I am starting to do that now, so I do. I thought okay, what am I going to do in this situation. It could be what am I going to do with the kids at work. What am I going to do with my child who just seems to be blowing off at the top and doesn't even know why. What will I do about their dad who said he was going to pick them up and all of a sudden he can't pick them up. So, I tend to get quiet. My children say, Are you mad about something? and I say, No, why do you say that? Well, your face. So, I know I'm doing that now. And I say, No, I'm not mad. I just need to think about some things. So that, yes, I'm doing that. I tended to react in the past.
TH 169: Mhm, like what? More jumpy?
CL 169: Yeah, the physical contact. I didn't take time out to stop, think, get myself together, re-evaluate the issues, put things in perspective and approach it in a calm, intelligent way. Sometimes I would jump right at it, and now I'm trying not to react. Sometimes I do react and I am aware of it. Now wait, that's a reaction, I know. Let me answer that in a few more minutes, or we'll talk about that tomorrow. And I do take time.
TH 170: Do you get depressed at all?
CL 170: Oh, I would have said over a year ago, two years ago, no way. But then I realized yes I do. [mhm] But not often. [uh huh] I don't like depression.
TH 171: That's why you have all this activity.
CL 171: Yes.
TH 172: It keeps it away.
CL 172: Yeah, I don't like depression, but yet I have learned that it's good. And I do go through those days where I'm depressed and not because of my period, it's just days where I'm depressed, and I go through it. I don't try to fix it, I just go through the end of the day and then the next day it's okay. It is actually something that I'm supposed to go through. You can't be bubbly and happy all the time. Life isn't a bowl of cherries all the time, and I thought it was, and I've realized through the counseling that it's not. But it's okay if things aren't going okay. Right now I'm at a very good point in my life.
TH 173: Well you sound great. We're going to have to summarize a little bit.
CL 173: Okay, all right, with the depression, I'm very, very happy and pleased with the way my life is going now, but yet I know there is that other side. I've been on that other side at certain points, [mhm] but I know I can get through that, [uh huh] and you can be happy again, and then you go through that again. You go through . . .
TH 174: So, you're less frightened of it.
CL 174: Yes, I'm less frightened.
TH 175: It's interesting because, you know, you have, you have qualities that are really helping you get through it, one of which you label as stubbornness. But it's also stick-to-it-iveness. So there are two sides of . . .
CL 175: My mom calls that you're a survivor.
TH 176: You are a survivor. I think you are getting to know yourself and accept yourself.
CL 176: I am beginning to see that. Yeah, I didn't take credit for that. I have my good points and my bad points, I do have some bad points.
TH 177: Oh well. I haven't seen any. Well, I think maybe a little impulsive sometimes, and being busy really does, um, I mean, it does two things. One is it keeps you occupied and doing some kind of purposeful meaningful things, but when you have one teenager and one going to get there very soon . . .
CL 177: Real soon.
TH 178: You are going to have plenty to do. [yeah] But it also gives you the, if you don't stop and look at things you won't be able to process them and deal with them, but it sounds like you are really dealing with that.
CL 178: Well, the counseling has definitely helped. It has, it's made me realize that. Sometimes I just go, We're too busy. Okay. We're not going to do anything and just sort of slow down. I still have to do it more than I do. I don't do it a lot. One of my friends says what do you do during your quiet time, I went, quiet time? What's quiet time. I don't know what quiet time is. Now I do know what quiet time is. But I didn't have it earlier on. Now I need to find some more sometimes.
TH 179: Right. But it sounds like you are getting back with friends, you are back in with your family, the boys have all kinds of activities that are theirs that you participate in, [yeah] you have all kinds of activities that are yours or the ones that you participate in, so you really are setting up your life for yourself, [yeah] and that's exciting.
CL 179: It is exciting.
TH 180: And a job that you like as well.
CL 180: Oh man yeah. That helped me through a lot.
TH 181: But, you are right, there will be bad moments.
CL 181: Actually, it sounds kind of weird, but I kind of look forward to them so I can deal with them, you know. I mean, I don't want them to happen, but I'm not as scared. I know that there is another side to it. [right] It's not the end of the world, that you can continue.
TH 182: And the fact that you are allowing yourself to do it and have some new friends but at the same time really keeping your own personal boundaries and personal space, you know. I want to just support you in that too cause that's really important.
CL 182: It's like, Hey why didn't I do this before? And actually it's good for everybody I think.
TH 183: Probably, and its probably very good for your boys to see that because you know they are at high risk to use abuse in their own relationships and so they need a lot of encouragement to resolve conflicts in other ways.
CL 183: Yeah, definitely.
TH 184: Do you have any questions to ask me?
CL 184: Um, okay, teacher mode, let me see. I'm trying to think. In general. No, I do appreciate you reminding me to be safe with him.
TH 185: Yeah, always.
CL 185: Because I do tend to cloud over things and not see it, and I do appreciate um, that because that's still reality and sometimes I like to get away from it.
TH 186: He's not going to change.
CL 186: I know.
TH 187: At least, if he does it will be over time. It won't be one, two, three boom.
CL 187: No, but I do appreciate that a lot. Thank you for that because it does, I do need to be reminded of that. I do. Um, were you yourself abused?
TH 188: No.
CL 188: Okay.
TH 189: I was not, but I've worked with abused women for the past 25 years.
CL 189: Does it seem to be the same pattern all the time?
TH 190: Yeah. I mean there are some different variations, but it is, in fact I wrote a book that many women read called The Battered Woman.
CL 190: Okay.
TH 191: So, if you are ever in the mood to read about it, you know, it was published by Harper and Row in 1979, but people are still reading it. I'm sure they even have it at the shelter.
CL 191: Okay, I'll do that.
TH 192: You know, pick it up and see where you fit in with some of the others.
CL 192: Is the reason why we allow that to happen based on the fact of how we see ourself in society?
TH 193: Well, I think so.
CL 193: How women are placed in society . . .
TH 194: Of course, that's an important reason, and it's also important that you know, you have been able to tie it to things that you did that you don't think were positive behaviors, so you took responsibility. He gave it to you, [mhm] but you accepted it, you know. And because you were very strong, you know. I think if it would have been more frequent you would have been out sooner. You took the verbal abuse because that was simply, you know, there, but that physical abuse if it was more frequent you would have been out sooner.
CL 194: Yeah, yeah. I do believe that.
TH 195: I know, and I think that you protected yourself, and that's why it wasn't as serious or as often. It could have been worse.
CL 195: Yeah, yeah. I think about that, but not too often because I'm not very proud of that, but, but I am a lot better with that.
TH 196: Okay, all right.
CL 196: Well, thank you very much.
TH 197: You're welcome.
CL 197: It was very good talking to you, and again, thank you for that.
TH 198: Well, good. I hope you stay safe and continue on to make a great new life for yourself.
CL 198: Thank you, thank you.
TH 199: I think you are doing just great.
CL 199: Thank you.
<b>Treatment Plan for Gina</b>
In future sessions, Walker would build on a close interpersonal relationship with Gina, helping her to deal with her feelings, particularly those of feeling depressed about her relationship. Through this process she would encourage Gina's personal growth, helping her challenge some of her beliefs concerning relationships so that, in future relationships, Gina would be able to maintain appropriate boundaries. Gina's need to be over-responsible would be further explored allowing Gina to redefine her role in relationships and learn to be more aware of her ability to choose how she will respond in a given situation. Finally, Walker might encourage Gina to explore ways she could help her sons maintain a positive relationship with their father while developing interpersonal skills that would contribute to future relationships.
<b>To Learn More About Feminist Therapy</b>
BOOKS
Cammaert, L. P. &amp; Larsen, C. C. (1988). Feminist frameworks of psychotherapy. In M.A. Dutton-Douglas &amp; L. E. Walker (Eds.), <u>Feminist Psychotherapies: Integration of Therapeutic and Feminist Systems</u> (pp. 13-36). Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Cantor, Dorothy W. (1990). <u>Women as Therapists: A Multitheoretical Casebook</u>. NY: Springer.
Crawford, M. &amp; Unger, R. (1997). <u>In our own Words: Readings on the Psychology of Women and Gender</u>. NY: McGraw-Hill.
Dutton-Douglas, M.A. &amp; Walker, L.E. (Eds.). (1988). <u>Feminist Psychotherapies: Integration of Therapeutic and Feminist Systems</u>. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Enns, C. Z. (1993). Twenty years of feminist counseling and therapy: From naming biases to implementing multifaceted practice. <u>The Counseling Psychologist, 21(1)</u>: pp. 3-87.
Lewis, J. A. (1992). Gender sensitivity and family empowerment. <u>Topics in Family Psychology and Counseling, 1(4)</u>: pp. 1-7.
Worell, J. &amp; Remer, P. (1992). <u>Feminist perspectives in therapy: An empowerment model for women</u>. NY: John Wiley &amp; Sons.
VIDEOS
Walker, L. E. (1994). <u>Survivor Therapy</u>. NY: Newbridge Communications.
