Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Sometimes it strangely cuts out after two seconds. So, let's see, if you think, first I wanted to talk about your parents' stuff and the appeal.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We've still got mostly [inaudible] to get back to them.
CLIENT: I have been getting the denied claims from them.
THERAPIST: Yes, from the insurance.
CLIENT: Yeah, from them. And also have worked out with James and my dad so that we have the money to pay for it since the claim was denied so we don't have to worry either way.
THERAPIST: I mean I know with you, questions...So basically, I wanted you to know what I've written so far.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Let's see, they asked about your reason for seeking care and the goal of treatment so I said that, "You sought treatment [inaudible at 00:00:58] for self-harm and to ameliorate other depressive symptoms that considerably impair your mood and functioning. You've struggled with depression much of your life and have had two hospitalizations in the past year." That's kind of...
CLIENT: I'm [alright with that] (ph)
THERAPIST: Ok. They asked about was it a treatment intervention, a supplemental psychotherapy, and that you had considerable experience with EBT and DBT approaches.
CLIENT: I wouldn't say considerable, but...
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: More than most people are at this point (laughs)
THERAPIST: Alright, ok. [inaudible crosstalk] The reason I put it that way was because sometimes people get sort of a [inaudible] to focus and that's not, so I wanted to make it clear that you have it and use it.
CLIENT: Definitely, yeah. It's not, I mean actually talked to [inaudible] would this actually help you to permanently again, well I took notes while I was there. I mean, I have gone back, after that go back through my notes and like see that I want to work more on these three or four things and continue to try doing that.
THERAPIST: What happens when you're trying to [inaudible crosstalk]?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like, oh people are talking. I won't be able to hear them in two weeks, yeah. And that's something I'm continuing to pursue in other directions. I'm not in the [inaudible] (ph) class this semester because I don't click with the person teaching it, but they offer one every semester and I'm going to take it next semester.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying, I mean, do what's helpful
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I just...
THERAPIST: Now, like I was saying, they want to know about your current medication regimen which I just don't know.
CLIENT: Well it changes like once a week, but right now it is, I take 20mg Aderol XR in the morning.
THERAPIST: 20 mg Aderol XR, yup.
CLIENT: And I take 5 mg of a short acting Aderol in the morning to kind of help me get through the morning and then in the afternoon again, so 30 mg total.
THERAPIST: Wait, ok yes.
CLIENT: And I just stopped taking a Lithium pill. I'm still on 2.5 mg of Paxil, but that's not helping it's actually hurting me, the only reason I haven't pulled it off is that I have bad withdrawal symptoms and can't take like six weeks to get off of it. I just don't have that time yet.
THERAPIST: I don't want to tell them that.
<br />
 CLIENT: Sorry. Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: It's alright.
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:03:36] I take the Paxil in the evenings. And then I have been taking between one to two mg of Xanax in the evening as a sleep aid and I will also take half a mg in the afternoon for anxiety.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry; you said half a mg for anxiety?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: In the afternoon, kind of some days. And, amazingly enough that's all I'm on right now.
<br />
 THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: I, I'm not taking Risperdal right now, but probably, I started trying it again and you know I quit the Lithium because if gave me bad side effects so I'm probably going to be trying that again.
THERAPIST: [inaudible crosstalk]
CLIENT: And I'd be on that, we kind of like ran through all of the options for that rather quickly so I don't know what we're going to do. (pause)
THERAPIST: Let's see. And they have a symptom checklist here. The things I put as severe were depression, self-esteem, and suicidal thoughts. For moderate, anxiety, concentration, difficulties, and self-injurious things. For mild, like environmental stress and relationship stuff, that kind of thing.
CLIENT: Alright. [00:05:07]
THERAPIST: And then for none, do you have issues with sleep? I mean...
CLIENT: I have, I have, but I think the medication remedies.
<br />
 THERAPIST: Ok, good. How about obsessive thinking? Like I don't...
CLIENT: I fret some, but less than I would expect myself to.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Like I don't, I don't do the same kind of ruminations that I hear other people talking about.<br />
<br />
 THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm talking about for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Let's see, I put nothing as far as like substance abuse stuff and...
CLIENT: No, though honestly I, in the past two months I can see why people get to be alcoholics. (laughs) Sorry I'm laughing right now.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And we haven't really talked about any issues with eating food.
CLIENT: I don't really have food issues, blessedly.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: One of my best friends has a pretty severe eating disorder. That's the worst thing I can imagine, like that [inaudible at 00:06:21].
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm pretty lucky that way.
THERAPIST: Let's see. And then do you have any sexual issues? And try to answer honestly to that.
CLIENT: I have a lower sex drive than I would like, but I (long pause); it's kind of room for improvement rather than a deal serious to my life or something.
THERAPIST: How about [inaudible] it seems like a pretty expectable symptom of depression.
CLIENT: It certainly has been, it is, and yeah it has been more difficult in the last year, like being asked.
THERAPIST: Ok, that's it with that. (pause) Let's see [trial and loss] (ph) I'm going to put moderate.
CLIENT: Sounds right.
THERAPIST: Ok, I guess the other, it asks about progress in treatment like in here, thus far. And it, (sighs) the way I thought of it was this. It appears to me that, also the progress is in like getting me up to speed and you're sort of coming to trust in me and get more of a sense of me and what it's like.
CLIENT: Yeah, it seems to me and, this is a different sort of therapy than I'm used to in that (pause) (sighs), yeah it is kind of a longing...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I'm still kind of getting a sense of how this is going to work.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think this would segue well into your question last week about where we are going.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But, (pause)
CLIENT: You know, and it's what helps, I mean (sighs), I the long run things are not getting better for in one sense. And in another sense I do feel like we've, I have made progress with, like I feel really good about where we're going, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's I guess, sort of my impression that, I guess I'll put it, this is a long game. It doesn't seem to me, it would have been great if neither of us were that concerned or bothered that like your symptoms have not improved much since you've been here.
CLIENT: I don't think it reflects on you or me or what we're doing here, if that makes sense. Yeah, this has been a really important support for me.
THERAPIST: Good.
<br />
 CLIENT: Good, yeah, that I wasn't expecting it to.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I, for the kind of stuff that we're working on and the way that we are that all sounds like perfectly reasonable and [plenty of progress] (ph) to me. I just, it sounds like we're on the same page. I guess I just wanted to make sure of that.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: Ok, so that does it for those. I will send this in and oh, the other thing that is related, so I've heard, I think it's probably better if we go to them with a specific request than a general request, like in other words, x number of sessions rather than we want twice a week therapy ongoing. So, I guess that relates to the question of how do you want to pay for this, assuming they're not going to just pick it up, which I'm quite sure they won't from what I've heard from talking to people inside UHS. Are you going to self-pay or get on James's insurance or you're calling different insurance?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: It's unlikely that I'll get on James's insurance I think.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: I, I think it depends on whether the recording of the sessions would be an ongoing indefinitely or whether would be a certain number of sessions.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Because I think it probably would work better for us for me to get, it would be less expensive for me to get individual insurance I think on top of UHS. Without it, with it I think it works better and is so much easier to pay individually. So, I don't know what this, what you're... [00:11:17]
THERAPIST: Sure. Let's see. There's a few things there. In terms of how long the recording with go on and assuming that you don't want to stop it at some point, I just spoke with the woman at the company yesterday said that there, what she said was potentially indefinitely as far as she knows. She said that the database they're adding to now with close at the end of this calendar year, 2012. But, because of the interest they've had, particularly instead of therapy transcripts they're likely to be, beginning a new database of those so subsequently so she thought it would just be ongoing.
CLIENT: Ok. Now [inaudible at 00:12:19]
THERAPIST: Right, that said, I guess (long pause) I had a few related thoughts and questions that sort of tie into the issue of insurance and where we're going. (long pause) The, the question is what is it that makes it really complicated to get on James's insurance?
CLIENT: Well, James would say nothing. I would say I, I hate paperwork and it, it, like I have a very difficult time opening the letters I get from the insurance company even though I know that they are all the same summary. I have a very difficult time it's one in the same as with that mail, like I'm always feeling like I'm not doing well with...
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: So, for me it's just a mental thing.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Other than that there is no reason.
THERAPIST: Ok, (pause) they, I guess three things on that. One, like I've had to do that paperwork from Blue Cross myself and in the realm of paperwork it's not that bad because it's a onetime thing. I think I may have a copy of the form; it's like two pages of kind of my information. Now, I hear you that like it is very difficult for you to do that.
CLIENT: But I mean, it will happen, but it's not like it's, it's difficult but that doesn't mean it doesn't happen (laughs).
THERAPIST: If you like, if it would be easier, you could bring it in here and we'll fill it out together.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: That's fine with me.
CLIENT: Thanks.
<br />
 THERAPIST: Sure. I mean there is a two [inaudible at 00:15:01], one is as far as the recording, I do also record people who have insurance because then it covers, but it will cover your co-pay. The other is thing is a bigger sort of issue and question which is, which relates to your, where we're going. For me like the (pause) I don't yet have answer of what I think the best sort of treatment for you would be.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: I'm on a couple of options I guess, one of which is intensive psychotherapy which is what we're doing now pretty much. And the other of which is analysis, which is more intensive like three or four times a week and also like this, it would be pretty long term, years. Sometimes that can be really helpful and sometimes it's not the right thing. And like truly from a clinical point of view forgetting about, you know...
CLIENT: What's the difference between the two? I mean clinically. [inaudible]
THERAPIST: No, no it's a...mostly, most people experience the difference largely in terms of the increased frequency. Sometimes, you know often people use the couch as well as sitting up face to face, so like you lie on the couch, I turn my chair around and back up a little bit. So that's different.
<br />
 CLIENT: I didn't know people still laid on the couches (laughs).
THERAPIST: Yeah, but either way, I'm not sure that would be the best thing for you. Often if someone has a trauma history you want to think very carefully about using the couch. It can be scary.
CLIENT: Yeah, like it is not something that I would feel comfortable with automatically.
THERAPIST: Yeah, right, and it, and the point of all of this, the point of all of this is like slowly to do what's most helpful. Those are really the differences. Like in terms of my approach and the sort of things I'm likely to say or what I would ask you to do, it's the same. Like pretty much [inaudible] and sort of associate.
CLIENT: So it's major, it's primarily a difference in intensity?
THERAPIST: It's primarily a difference in intensity. That's right and (pause) and sometimes that can be, the increased intensity can be, I mean I think it's pretty fair to say given what you've been struggling with and what's been going on it's going to be intense either way like. But, well it would be more so (long pause) in a couple of ways. In some ways that can be extremely helpful and sometimes it can really not be helpful.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean...
THERAPIST: And that's, and that's what the question in my mind anyway is, is, which is more likely. I don't know.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Now, and that of course besides the issue of what you want to do or what the question, what is feasible for you, I'm just, my job is to come up with what I think is sort of likely to be clinically best helpful and then, you know then we can talk about what's feasible or what's, all that other stuff which is totally reasonable to consider and think about. Yeah, I may answered more questions about where we're going either way. (long pause) [00:19:46]
CLIENT: I just, more, what do you see as the best outcome for all this? You know, what [would help] (ph) for treatment I mean? You know, I, I'm asking more generally than from you specifically because you just said you don't know that directly for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. Are there specific things you are wondering about in terms of what can and can't be accomplished with this sort of treatment?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: (long pause) Yeah, I guess I just wanted, I want to hear your ideas about what it can and can't accomplish? That kind of thing.
<br />
 THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Put you on the spot, sorry.
THERAPIST: No, it's fine. (pause) You know in some sense to put it crassly, like this is what is what it sounds like, like I should be able to talk about it. (long pause) Yeah, in terms of psychological therapy and psychoanalysis can, you know, the hope would be to like ameliorate your depression as much as possible. Essentially, let me put it this way, so particularly in an analysis, I think that's the easier one to describe then I can sort of describe the differences in psychotherapy. The major like issues and struggles in your life get relived in the treatment, in the treatment relationship. So, things like the hurts, the disappointments, the hopes, the loneliness, the vulnerability like actually comes into the treatment, the parts of it that matter. The part of the history that come into the treatment itself and you can sort of talk about and like navigate all of those old sort of worries and injuries and (pause) you know, disappointments and kind of in real time, in a relationship in which they're being stirred up. It's not just like the past comes to life because those issues are already alive in your present life, they're just kind of disguised and it's hard to sort out what's what in most people I think. So, it's not like it's just sort of artifacts from the past that are being brought back, but you know artifacts from the past that have been disguised in ways of being played out in the struggles that you're having now. So this is what makes them relevant to the present. [00:23:39]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And by kind of reliving and talking about, sort of working through all of those things it's possible to ameliorate a lot of the pain and fear and sadness, anger that, they evolve. So, (long pause) you know to put it (pause) like more so that we can completely, in terms of things, you know I have talked about. You know, you talked about a fear with insecurity in your life, really not being worth it and really being a disappointment. And, you know I imagine you would, maybe you already feel some of that here, but you probably in one form, or from one angle or another would come to feel it very intensely here and I would say things that would, you know, not intentionally that would trigger it, you know, or actually making you feel better about it. We would have a chance to kind of reflect on that, like oh, "yeah, I didn't realize, but when you said this it actually made me feel like that. It really touched on this and that was why I was so upset." And, "oh, I see, so that's why something sounded like this because it actually meant that." You know, like there are ways of kind of dealing with it as it comes up in the moment in a [setting] (ph) like this where we could look at what's going on in that way. Over time, you come to feel better about stuff and more...
CLIENT: Equipped to handle it?
THERAPIST: Equipped to handle it and, yeah less dominated by it.
CLIENT: Ok. [00:26:18]
THERAPIST: And that kind of stuff happens sort of (long pause), you know, sometime analysis is the best way to bring that stuff up and deal with it and other times it isn't. Like the...
CLIENT: Why not?
THERAPIST: You know, sometimes the intensity is too much, like or the ways that the intensity emerges aren't right. You know, it's so much a matter of is the person strong enough, but like on the ways that, because things get evoked, like do more harm than good.
CLIENT: You were talking about, yeah if you have problems with different people sometimes it would bring it out differently depending on who they are.
THERAPIST: Yeah, right. So, and it's a, psychotherapy is a similar process to analysis. It's sometimes like (pause) you know, it's all that stuff coming up and getting wigged out or what's happening with the relationship, but sometimes there's not quite the opportunity to make it quite as explicit or to see quite how clearly things relate to each other or have them come up with the same kind of force as they do. It's very hard to predict. But, I mean it's sort of a similar type of treatment.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Did that give you some kind of a picture?
CLIENT: Yeah, it does that's really helpful. [00:28:16]
THERAPIST: Ok. Is there more, anything to ask about that?
CLIENT: (long pause) Not right now. I mean, I'm sure there will be.
THERAPIST: Yeah, of course. (long pause) Yeah, well then certainly if you feel like it, certainly if you feel like it ask whenever.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: And did that also kind of address some of the like, "where are we going"?
CLIENT: I think so, yeah.
THERAPIST: Are there other aspects of that?
CLIENT: No. I don't think so. I think James is going to be a harder sell on this kind of treatment than I am. Mostly he's like, I like to have a plan, but he really likes to have a plan. But [inaudible]. He's fine with changing the plans when he has them, but he has to have [inaudible]. But, no, I mean that makes sense to me.
THERAPIST: And there's certainly stuff he can read and look at. Like if you look at the website of the American Psychological Association I think there's a section on there about "What is Psychoanalysis." That can be a good starting point if he likes to journals and studies and conferences. Like, that's not going to, nothing could (laughs), in kind of creating a real specific roadmap. But...
CLIENT: But it sounds like you're saying it's inherent to the process that a roadmap is difficult to come by.
THERAPIST: That's right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's right.
CLIENT: And I'm ok with that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and in fact (pause)...
CLIENT: I mean, I would much rather, I'm much more comfortable with somebody saying, "We're not sure this is going to work, but this is the best way we know about going it, going about addressing it." Than someone saying, "We are sure this is going to work because we have a study that had 17 people." (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: The [TV program] (ph) was really useful, but I was like they all swallowed the, it's like they all took a blue pill for it. Like, we know that this works, it's proven. And I'm like, I'm sorry, that's not how science works. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) Yeah, right.
CLIENT: Which is not to say that it isn't helpful, I just would be much more comfortable if they said, "We think this helps."
THERAPIST: Right, you know a lot of time this helps and sometimes it doesn't, we're not really sure why.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Ok.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah this is a little more in, in this sense, maybe some others, like writing a novel in that (pause) you know you can't, or in school for that matter, you know really know, neither of us, what you're getting into and where it's going to end up and even if you had a sort of a schematic idea of where your novel is going to go before you started it, like once you started filling it all in and writing it, it would probably start looking a lot different. You know what I mean? Even the name of the destinations where you thought you were going to end the whole scene would be very different from the [inaudible at 00:32:23]. This is a little more like that.
CLIENT: And I'm ok with that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so feel free to ask me any questions that crop up about that.
CLIENT: (pause) Do you have like a, any, in terms of like your methodologies or your way of thinking like, do you have a school of thought that you really follow?
THERAPIST: Sure, oh I mean like the, at this point there are like 30,000 sort of periodicals, academic papers and psychological literature there's a "there" there in that sense.
CLIENT: I know that, don't worry. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) [inaudible] It's hard to say. I mean, I, I'm not aligned with a particular school of contemporary psychoanalysis. I have a sort of interest, which is, which is fairly typical these days. There are some people who sort of are interested in and are trained in very specifically within one approach, but most, most people these days that's not true. You may gravitate one way or the other, but...
CLIENT: So you're saying you, I mean, the analogy for an academic or for me would be, that you use different theories as they're useful, but don't adhere specifically to one school. [00:34:07]
THERAPIST: Yeah, something like that. Or that (long pause), yeah it's a little more the opposite of a little more post-talk in the sense that, like I'm sure when you read a paper somebody's written and you can sort of see, "Oh yeah, I can see the influence of this sort of mentor or school of thought." Whereas that mentor or school of thought, you know in the way they approached the problem and then wrote about it, or didn't write about it or something. Where it's not necessarily like a person actually doing the research said, "Ok, I'm going to do this thing in this way and that thing in that way." It's more like they did it their way and then you can kind of, you know after the fact kind of look back and see their influences or sort of something like that I think. Does that make sense?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Ok, yeah. [00:35:08]
<br />
 THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, yeah. (long pause) Yeah, somebody who worked under such and such an advisor for a while and did their post-doc here and had a faculty position with a group that's very much oriented this way maybe you can also kind of see their earlier influences. It's not like a conscious decision to approach something this way partly in that way it's like they just do their work and you can kind of see where they came from, sort of more like that.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Yeah and like if I was really going to think like, you know contemporary eco-psychology and some things from [south] (ph) psychology and from like contemporary Kleinian approaches to psychoanalysis.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Sure. (long pause)
CLIENT: Ok, I [inaudible at 00:36:07]. Yeah
THERAPIST: Good. The other thing is, just let me know any other thoughts or questions you have. (pause) Yeah. (long pause) So, to tie it back a little bit, one reason I mentioned about the insurance is, is that I'd imagine that particularly if we did more, if it did make more sense to do more sessions that becomes a different calculation.
CLIENT: Right, because that means more money.
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah. And also in terms of the form (pause), let's see, it's now the beginning of April, so this wouldn't turn over for four months. (long pause) Do you know if you'll be able to get Blue Cross to reimburse you from when you were in the hospital? Like, consider those not outpatient visits or [inaudible]?
CLIENT: I talked to [inaudible] it doesn't seem like it.
THERAPIST: Ok, we'll do that. Ok, it's up to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it seems, it seems like it was more a problem with communication than anybody screwing up. Like, they didn't tell me that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But, you know they put it on the form, but I'm afraid of the forms and haven't looked at them very carefully.
THERAPIST: Well and when you're in the hospital you might not be in the state of mind to read carefully through a form.
<br />
 CLIENT: (laughs) yeah. So...
THERAPIST: I mean, how do you want me to write it? Do you want me to request a certain number of sessions or...?
CLIENT: I don't know how to answer that honestly.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: So, I mean, I, you seem to be saying pretty clearly that it's probably going to be more effective to request a specific number of sessions.
THERAPIST: That's my sense, yeah.
CLIENT: And I will trust that. I don't know what that number would be. I, yeah I don't, yeah I have no way of knowing.
THERAPIST: I mean, I would think something between 12 and 24 sessions.
CLIENT: Ok, that sounds reasonable.
THERAPIST: Ok. Alright then I'll do that and let you know what I find out.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: Sure. (long pause) Yeah, I'll have a look and I guess in terms of insurance one good thing about that is that's something you can disrupt at any time.
<br />
 CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And like I said, I'm happy to, fortunately and unfortunately for me I have to fill out that particular form so I'm happy to help you, especially with something that is stressful.
<br />
 CLIENT: Yeah if it turns into a state of real panic then I may take you up on that. But, I doubt it will.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Yeah, and, you know, and taxes, anything to do with money basically, freaks me the hell out. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right, I agree. Yeah, I just seems like it would be too bad if that, that filling out those forms became a very expensive thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I don't think...
THERAPIST: I guess I didn't know what to ask you to do about this stuff is like (pause) whether sort of getting more, sort of harder or some like insurance with Blue Cross. Like, (long pause) I've wondered about how much like you're issues of feeling like you don't deserve things, like you don't deserve help implicated some of this. Like if you're getting help you should be paying, it should be costing you more. You know what I mean? Like, I hope that's not there, but I figured I'd ask in case you think it may be.
CLIENT: It's, that's less a factor in terms of how I pay for it. It's certainly a huge deal in terms of getting there in the first place.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Ok, well we're going to stop for now, we'll talk more tomorrow.
END TRANSCRIPT
