TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. Good morning. (PAUSE)
THERAPIST: Oh man. I was up late. I'm okay.
CLIENT: You were up late?
THERAPIST: (inaudible) other than running (inaudible)
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
(PAUSE)
CLIENT: I'm just looking for an opening. (PAUSE) So... [00:01:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah
(PAUSE)
CLIENT: Up until about 7:30 last night, I was about as bad as I can ever remember being. I mean, it was... Yesterday was so painful. I mean, I, you know, I can feel days being cut off my life as a result of this stress. I feel, you know, I feel my body responding to this state of mind and it has to be destructive too. I mean, it hurts. Even in moments where I'm not feeling it acutely, I can feel the... I imagine I can feel, you know, tissue being dissolved. [00:02:03]
I imagine that I can feel, I just sense it. And, and yesterday was as bad as I can remember it being. It just felt like the end. And (PAUSE) nothing in particular had happened and maybe that is whole thing. It just felt like nothing in particular had changed. That, that I just, I didn't have any... I didn't have any will. I didn't have any will. And so at 7:30 my friend Jack who is working with Kevin the bank president (PAUSE) wrote. Now this was, you know, kind of the next iteration of, you know, these contacts that we've been... (PAUSE) [00:03:09]
I don't know. I mean, this conversation that I started in April, I guess. You know? So I called Kevin and I told him I was pissed off and he, you know, wrote back very quickly and said, you know "Let's talk by phone." And we talked by phone and had this conversation early May... I reached out to Jack shortly thereafter and we were just talking about something and then Kevin hired Jack on right before he took office. And I'd been talking to Jack thinking that, you know, this was kind of a back door depending on what happened here. Preference was to stay here obviously and to kind of work out some resolution here. [00:04:05]
In August when... And there's a reason I'm giving you this chronology. It's not... So, you know, in August when... I'm not sure what happened in August to decide me (ph). But at a point, you know, it just became clear that it wasn't going to happen. I think it was when I had this talk with the guy at the medical school and thinking, you know, "Okay. Obviously there was just, there was no possibility of any kind of, you know, reasonable, substantive (ph) appointment." So (PAUSE) I wrote to Kevin very end of August after having had these discussions with Jack through the summer. Kevin had been on vacation in August. (PAUSE) Didn't hear back from him for about two weeks. Wrote to Jack again maybe ten days, ten days after my initial e-mail and said, "What do you think?" and, you know, "What address should I use?" [00:05:07]
He gave me his work e-mail so... Wrote to Kevin, Kevin writes back saying "Yes. But I'm a little wary. Give him, you know, this history." And I suggested that, you know, that I continue the conversation through Jack. So, you know, it's (PAUSE) a month and a half after it had become clear to me that I had to leave. And during that time, I've done no work whatsoever and I've really felt, you know, nearly suicidal frankly. And Jack, you know, so Kevin gave his (inaudible at 00:05:53) the idea of exploring it further, talked to Jack more. You know, had a conversation with Jack. That took ten days to set up. [00:06:01]
Alex suggested a conversation with the communications director, this guy who used to work for the Globe, Robert talked to Robert on Friday and I was totally convinced that it just been terrible. I looked to Jack because I often do in such situations and I said, "Yeah I really thought it went terribly. I'm sorry. I fucked up," et cetera, et cetera. He said... You know, he wrote back a nice note and he suggested... I suggested we talk over the weekend if we could. And he said, "Yeah." And he wrote back on Sunday saying, "You know, I can talk Monday," or, "Sorry I couldn't talk over the weekend. Let's talk Monday." (PAUSE) And then radio silence from him for, you know, until yesterday. And during that ten days as during all the previous times, I was convinced that I had just been dropped and that was it. You know, the content of this long relationship and long interaction and friendship it just, I just didn't have any contact with him. It was gone. [00:07:09]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It was like... It was over. And... (PAUSE) So, you know, the content of the message yesterday was just, "Hey Galen (ph)." You know... I don't know. As soon as he got up I guess because he's in Asia at the  Bank annual meetings, which I knew. You know, I knew that this...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...huge deadline for all of stuff they're working on for the last few months...
THERAPIST: Right. I see.
CLIENT: ...was this week. I knew it. (PAUSE) And he wrote back and he said... You know I had written a very measured (ph) my communication actually has been unusually good, frankly. At some level, I'm able to hold it in but the strain of holding that in is extreme. [00:08:03]
It's like, you know, not engaging in a very histrionic communication. It's like I don't even want to talk. It's, you know, like some of the, I don't know, depression or... (PAUSE) It's a kind of catatonia. I mean, it's like, it's like me effect has been, you know, down regulated to the point where it almost like there's no affect at all. People interact with me... With Jennie (ph) I've able to snap out of it. In fact, you know, on Monday we went out, you know, to, to, to one of the, you know, to one of the state parks out there. And I was okay. I was fine. We were with two other friends. I was... And then as soon as we got back home, I was back in it again. And as soon as I got up in the morning and, you know, went off to the office, I was back in it again. And I'm going off to the office and I'm doing no work for like, you know. And I'm feeling like in this state that I just described...
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:09:15]
CLIENT: ...for eight hours. Can you imagine? Eight hours. Just feeling like my organs are going to disintegrate. That's literally what it feels like. It feels like my organs are disintegrating (PAUSE) bit by bit just sort of wearing away. (PAUSE) And as soon as this e-mail came in from Jack, the e-mail said, "This... You know, this thing is still very much alive. Robert really seemed like he had a good conversation with you. I didn't get the impression at all that, you know, that, that the talk has been as bad as you thought that it had been. (PAUSE) And I'm going to keep pushing this. It's just that we're, you know, we're in the middle of..." [00:10:11]
You know, my message had said something like, you know, "Hope you guys are hanging in there, you know, at the annual meeting." It was a totally appropriate message. I'm amazed by it frankly given the, you know, discrepancy between the language in that message and the way that I was feeling at the time. But, you know, it just said, "You know, I know you're in the thick of the annual meetings. Sounds like this may not happen but I'd like to debrief with you. Hope we can talk soon." And he wrote back saying, "Yeah, you know, we're in the middle of annual meetings. Sorry there's just been not a minute to breathe, still very much alive, as soon as it's all over, you know, I'll, I'm talking to Kevin and to Robert and we're going to make it go." So, it was, you know, in one sense, is was non-committal and in the other sense, Kevin has already said let's make it happen.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, Jack is pushing it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:10:59]
CLIENT: You know, Robert doesn't sound averse so what the fuck right? (PAUSE) So, as soon as that message came it, it was like my whole mindset had changed, my whole, you know, sort of complex of physical sensations associated with that, you know, mindset changed and I have some ideas about what is going on but it's, you know, just my, my, my overwhelming feeling or impression or what have you is just... (PAUSE) I feel wistful or something. Like (PAUSE) is that it? That's all? That's all I needed?
THERAPIST: I see. [00:11:53]
CLIENT: What changed? It's so profound, you know, whatever it was that could turn on a dime like that. Whatever it was that, you know, could, that just... Not only my productivity at work, I mean, just upends everything. And yet, I clearly am able to deploy it. (PAUSE) And I guess what was horrifying me last week was just the idea that I, I'm able to deploy it instrumentally. I'm deploying it. (PAUSE) There's something about the way that I feel in interaction with other people that, you know, I can choose to deploy or not. Or I can... I don't know. I don't know what, I don't know what happened on Monday that I didn't feel it for X hours.
THERAPIST: You mean, when you were out? [00:13:00]
CLIENT: Not true that I didn't feel it but I was able to put it off. I was able to say, "Okay. I'm going to compartmentalize this even though it's still there." It was still there. I remember feeling moments of desperation but I compartmentalize it. I'm able to do that. (PAUSE) And it can turn on a dime. (PAUSE) I mean, it wasn't like the, you know, maybe it's a little, you know, it's clearly more hopeful than I expected, you know, the prospects of this, this thing in D.C. happening but I don't know. I don't know. I'm, I'm, I'm... I have some very clear ideas about, you know, sort of the psychodynamic model but I feel... (PAUSE) I feel amazed or something. I don't know. I'm looking, I'm struggling to find the words to describe... [00:14:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah it sounds like you're sort of talking to me kind of as a part of yourself that really almost can't believe how profound the effects of some of the seemingly fairly small (PAUSE) events are, such as hearing from Jack last night.
CLIENT: That's not quite it. It's more like... (PAUSE) I mean, what's profound are the effects as you say. I can't believe that I have control over this and it's still happening. (PAUSE) There's something... I can't believe that I have the capacity to control this and yet it's still completely disrupted my life and the lives, you know, to varying degrees of the people around me. [00:15:15]
It's like, it's like this force of nature in me that, you know, that can be molded somehow. Right now, it's happening totally unconsciously. (PAUSE) I mean, the events, the events are minor. Or maybe not... I don't know. I'm not, I'm not articulating myself very well but it's fine. I'm amazed at... (PAUSE) I'm amazed at how much disruption there it. I guess that's it. I'm amazed at how much disruption there is and how, how susceptible it is of control or how susceptible it is of change (inaudible) as you say, even though the most modest sort of real world events intervening. [00:16:05]
THERAPIST: So okay, it seems to me there are three things that you're struck by or that (PAUSE) seem sort of (inaudible at 00:16:25).
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm just sort of cataloguing here.
CLIENT: Do. Do. Do. That helps.
THERAPIST: The first of which is the one we were talking about last week to do with (PAUSE) I guess specifically, you're kind of setting some of this stuff up. Like, you're... Contrary to what you had thought previously, kind of digging your heels in or provoking these kind of situations, like having some subconscious sort of control or responsibility. This would be thing one that seems to really have struck you... [00:17:19]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ...about this, recently. Thing two is yesterday night like how much... And there have been other things like this that I can remember. You know, one sort of (PAUSE) positive response from somebody or connected response from somebody...
CLIENT: Connected response. That's what it is.
THERAPIST: You know, saying, "Hey. We're still here. You're still on our mind. We still want you," how much that can make a difference. I think there were times like that a while ago with Phil as well (inaudible) [00:18:05]
CLIENT: Oh. It happens all the time.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Okay.
CLIENT: All the time.
THERAPIST: But how much...
CLIENT: This was profound only because, you know, it's more consequential and you know...
THERAPIST: That's number two. And number three is how much, I mean, this isn't exactly new one but I feel like you're struck again by the importance of it. How much the sort of Jefferey (ph) state really can take over. (PAUSE) Which, you know, which it really, I mean it has a lot lately, but especially you're saying yesterday until 7:30. [00:18:57]
CLIENT: Right. So, so Jefferey (ph) we understood a little better as of two weeks ago. You know, my apparent control over Jefferey (ph), although it's not conscious is something that we understand a little bit better after last week. And I guess what I'm realizing... I'm getting a better sense of now or struggling for a bit better sense of now at the very least, is... I mean, I guess it's the other direction. It's how, you know, how... I feel like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:39)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. How Jefferey (ph) goes away. You know...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: How this state in which, you know, I don't, you know, the, the the sort of (PAUSE) you know, cognitive confidence or something. I don't quite know how to call it. The ability to, you know, to speak and to assess and to kind of look at myself, you know, from outside and, you know, all of these prerequisites of rational thought is some ways. You know, how, how it gets attenuated. I'm seeing instances in which it's been attenuated. I'm observing them. They all have to do with connectedness. You know, they all have to do with attachment to somebody. [00:20:23]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or something.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, a project or people, you know...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...to the extent that we can differentiate them. Obviously it's complicated but that's what it is. You know, it's my attachment to them. Somehow I see it and I'm able to, I mean, you know, regulate. I'm able to regulate. And right now it's still in the domain of, you know, the unconscious I guess or something (inaudible) It's still in a domain that I don't, I'm not able to like... [00:21:00]
Like I'm able to deploy this regulating, you know, this regulating behavior or, you know, thought pattern what have you when Jennie (ph) is upset. I'm able to do so when she says, "I really want to go out, you know, to, you know, with our friends," and I have to be with our friends. You know? I'm able to do that to that extent and I'm able to do it when I'm suddenly reassured that I'm connected to other people. I can't yet, you know, deploy this sort of mind body connection in other circumstances to the point where I just, I'm in total despair. And yet, it's possible. And so I just feel so struck by it. It has totally disrupted my life, my inability to do this.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: I mean it has turned it upside down. It has turned your life upside down.
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:21:59) I mean I can write you a thousand dollar check today...
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:22:00]
CLIENT: ...by the way. I'm sure that helps. But, I mean, you hear me.
THERAPIST: Yeah I do.
CLIENT: I mean, it's, it's, it's it's insane how much it's disrupted my life and yet it's doable. (PAUSE) It can be done. I am able to do it. I can see that capacity in certain circumstances and I, you know, I feel, I feel amazed. I feel amazed that it is possible and yet for 41 years, it hasn't happened. That's where I am.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: Yeah it seems as though the changes involved (PAUSE) not (PAUSE) being to the good a little more contact sensitive and how you're taken over by it. [00:23:15]
In other words, rather than being taken over no matter where you are, what's going on, what you're doing, you're, you know, you're more taken over at home when it comes to thinking about work and stuff. Like Jennie (ph) can pull you out of it, being away with she and your friends pulled out of it a little bit. And also, I think, well there's the other direction as well. There's being away and being away from it and yet still knowing it's there. That's actually a bit different in that...
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe.
THERAPIST: ...I think it's often cut both ways but when you're in it, there's no out of it and when you're out of it, there's no connection with being in it. [00:24:01]
And (PAUSE) I think that relates to what you're saying now. You're not in it right now, I don't think but you're, you're somewhat in touch with it. So there's a little more like co-mingling but, you know, clearly (PAUSE) what's missing (PAUSE) what still feels like, I guess really isn't you is (PAUSE) is when you're really in it and why you'd want to be that way. Like... [00:24:59]
CLIENT: No I mean I... (PAUSE) Why I'd want to be that way? I can kind of see that intellectually, I mean, you know. I mean, is whatever, I mean, it's a problem with attachment and I had a very, you know, disrupted early co-environment. I can see how it could happen. And after it's happened, you become used to it. You know, I've only been self conscious of it for a very, you know, relatively short time so I see how difficult to change this pattern. I just, I don't know. I guess I'm feeling, what I'm feeling amazed about is not why I would want to be in it so much as, you know, the kind of dichotomy between the substance of it and the impact of it. (PAUSE) [00:26:07]
I mean it's like, it's as if I suppose, you know, I was blind. It is like a kind of blindness. It's like a distortion of everything that I see and everything that I perceive in my relationships with other human beings. You know, at this point Jennie (ph) is exempt from it. My sister is probably exempt from it. My mother is exempt from it. But almost every other person is not and in my relationships with them, I just feel as if... And my mother is exempt from it mostly because I barely talk to her at this point. I mean, we probably talk once every two months. [00:27:00]
You know, and maybe that's deliberate. Maybe that's, you know, that's a level of an expression of my lack of certainty in our interaction. I don't think so. (PAUSE) I don't know. I mean, so, so it's not so much want. It's not that I want. I don't have a sense of wanting to be in there and yet I am. Is that, am I... Maybe I'm just rambling. (PAUSE) I mean with you and I, we have a very secure attachment. I haven't, you know, I, we, just even, even when it felt like it wasn't working, you know, I still came on time all the time. I mean, I didn't pay you as expeditiously as I ought to have or want to. [00:28:07]
THERAPIST: Well that's a bit of a different thing. I think there...
CLIENT: Not. Yeah. What do you think?
THERAPIST: ...you've been (PAUSE) sort of pushing, probing, testing the relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true. Well maybe all of this is probing and testing and pushing the relationship. That was my sense last week and I know, I think that one of the reasons it's so horrifying when I don't have a response is that I feel as I've probed and tested and prodded for ten years going on and finally I've been dropped. That's what I'm testing for. That's what I'm expecting. I'm expecting to be dropped. [00:29:05]
And, you know, the sense of horror that is the trigger for Jefferey, you know, comes about when I feel like, that I have been dropped. What, you know, resolves it is some kind of communication suggest that I have not yet been dropped. (PAUSE) That's it right there.
(PAUSE) [00:29:53]
THERAPIST: I think part of the probing with me with the money is also (PAUSE) to put me in the situation that you're so often in. [00:30:11]
CLIENT: Okay. (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: Where, you know, waiting, I don't really know what the circumstances are. There's not much I can really do about it unless I just walk away.
CLIENT: Hmm. (PAUSE) Basically what I've been feeling for the last two years.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm not saying I'm feeling the same thing.
CLIENT: I hope not.
THERAPIST: But I think you're...
CLIENT: I hope not.
THERAPIST: I think that's kind of part of the set up.
CLIENT: It's a setup. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry (LAUGHTER) but it is a set up. I, I'm... I guess, I guess, I don't know. It doesn't make any sense otherwise. [00:30:59]
THERAPIST: Well that's the kind of thing we're here to look at.
CLIENT: I guess so. I guess so. I guess so. But yeah...
THERAPIST: And...
CLIENT: I think that's right. I agree. I endorse that hypothesis.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: And I guess (PAUSE) I think it's sounds like the way it feels to you is as though... I'm not saying this is how it is or how it feels to me but with how bad you feel about it, it seems to me you're kind of feeling like you're sort of fucking me over to see how I'll deal with it or what I'll do.
CLIENT: Is that what it feels like to you? That I'm fucking you over to see how you'll deal with it?
THERAPIST: That's my impression of how it feels to you and (inaudible at 00:32:32).
CLIENT: I worry. I mean, that's like my worst fear is that that's what I'm doing. My worst fear is that that's what I'm doing, you know, when I don't do the things that I need to do. My worst fear is that, you know, that I'm behaving in a kind of... I mean, that's an awful vision that... My experience of it is completely different from that. This is like an ex plus facto attempt to model it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:33:01]
CLIENT: But my experience of it is I can't move.
THERAPIST: I know. Yeah.
CLIENT: My experience of it is I'm like sitting at my desk and all of these things are things that I could possibly, you know, deal with some of them, the fiscal thing... But the fiscal thing, you know, could be resolved if I were working at work. You know, I mean, it's all kind of a seamless (inaudible at 00:33:25). The discrepancy between my experience of it and my sort of attempt to understand it on some rational level is so, the gulf between them is so great. I don't... Like... Anyway. (PAUSE) My experience of it is helplessness. My model of it is agency and between the two of them it's...
THERAPIST: It's a big gulf. [00:33:33]
CLIENT: I don't... I guess that's the problem right now. I guess that's what I'm grappling with. I guess that's what I'm amazed about. I think, you know, the hypothesis that you just presented about what I'm doing probing, you know, fucking you over, you know, all of these things (PAUSE) it's plausible to me. And that's freaky because my experience of it is just, you know, just being pinned to the wall.
THERAPIST: Right. So... (PAUSE) Maybe the (PAUSE) sort of... (PAUSE) If I think about the sort of world that that one part is living in, the sort of fucking me over part, I imagine it's a world where that goes both ways, where you can be coming here for months and months and trying and not getting anywhere with this. [00:35:09]
And, you know, getting up and doing your part and paying money sort of or, you know, you know what I mean. And, you know, and still get nothing. Which is how you felt at some moments recently.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And in that case, you're getting, I'm fucking you over. (PAUSE) I think is how it...
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: ...feels at that level.
CLIENT: I can remember feeling something like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (PAUSE) And so I think for that part of you it's sort of (PAUSE) not the right metaphor but, it is sort of dog eat dog in that way where... [00:36:00]
CLIENT: The sense of being fucked over is important to this.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's the piece.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's another piece.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And it's like, you may be sort of probing on the verge of doing that to somebody else. They may be doing that to you...
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But that's the, I think, the sum. Yeah.
CLIENT: Are we coming to the end?
THERAPIST: Oh we've got five minutes.
CLIENT: Okay. (PAUSE) So what do I do? This is good. I feel, I feel, I feel, I feel a sense of accomplishment. You know? It's not as articulate as I would like a model to be. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I like them to be easy to describe and conceptualize and map but this is clearly, this is clearly, this is clearly right. [00:37:09]
I feel a sense of certainty and security and yet I'm still amazed. I just... (PAUSE) I don't know. I mean the, it's definitely significant who the individual identity of the people involved here is clearly significant. You know, this is, these are people that I've been working with, Kevin in particular, for, you know, God, fifteen years now almost. And, you know, we came into each other's lives at a very very strategic moment for me, you know, right as my father died. You know, the role that they and he in particular have served is, you know, is, is genuinely significant in my life. [00:38:09]
And the moments when the catatonia or whatever, you know this Jefferey (ph) has been strongest and most, you know, sort of profound and disabling have been moments when I've felt like our connection, my connection with this individual person was attenuated. You know, so, so, you know, the individual identity of this person is significant and this group of people is significant and (PAUSE) that's part of the picture here, I guess.
(PAUSE) [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: And I guess (inaudible) points back to your dad?
CLIENT: I have thought that...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...very distinctly in the past. (PAUSE) You know, my dad (PAUSE) for better or worse, you know, my dad would get me through these kind of moments.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Like I would call my dad...
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: ...when I was just totally dysregulated, unable to work in college and he would talk me through it.
THERAPIST: Oh. (PAUSE) [00:39:59]
We're going to stop and...
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Sure.
END TRANSCRIPT
