TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Your clock disappeared in there.
THERAPIST: The ticking started getting louder. 
CLIENT: That's odd.
THERAPIST: It seemed to.
CLIENT: I take it that's not the first time.
THERAPIST: With a few different clocks, actually.
CLIENT: You should be able to get a digital. That might be a solution. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (sighs) [00:00:56] I had a really difficult day yesterday. The only thing that I had to do nominally was to teach this class at the tutor section. There's a lunch for the tutors at 12:30 and then there's a lecture at 1:30 and a tutorial at 2:30, so there's a three-hour block in theory, but only one of them am I really responsible for. The students submit every week very brief reflection papers, 100 words or so. I read them and add some comments. It's very de minimus on both ends. [00:02:11] I had last week's papers to comment on since I had notified them that I would be away last week. This was a slow start-up of the pressure [ ] (inaudible at 00:02:31) that I wasn't actually away. I just decided to keep it [ ] (inaudible at 00:02:35) take a break. Anyway, I got up in the morning and I just couldn't move. I don't mean literally I was not able to locomote, but I couldn't go anywhere. I couldn't get started with it and you said on Wednesday, I think, that I was really "going large". I was really going large. [00:03:26] I felt (pause) the work behind this pressure, but it's not a very good indication of what it felt like. It felt more excentrifugal than centrifugal, if you know what I mean. I'm just kind of bursting with this feeling of hopelessness and fatigue, like I really wouldn't have a way to support myself. [The evaluations of my competencies do expire.] (ph) It seems very bad; but I think one of the things lurking there is just not wanting to teach these students, so there's a critique of me individually and there is a kind of hierarchal critique, if you know what I mean. [00:04:39] Somebody that I knew and worked with, slightly older, maybe five or six or seven years older than I, just got appointed to an endowed professorship, I think. She forwarded me an e-mail and sent a brief note, just an FYI. Somebody that I've certainly not been close to, but we've talked reasonably often. Anyway, it just felt like everybody was diverging from me. I was just stuck in this body, this state. [00:05:33] I couldn't move and I couldn't do the corrections and I couldn't go to the faculty meetings which, for me, are very painful, frankly. Everybody in one way or another is in that position, and here I am, stuck, just sort of [ ]. (inaudible at 00:05:49) I was feeling very desperate. I felt desperate. I didn't know what the next step was; and it was scary and I was frightened. That level of desperation was frightening and draining, as I discovered later in the day. I think people frequently don't attend the faculty meetings but, of course, administrators at large serve a course, so there's an administrator spends extra center for FTE on just administrating this course. She sent me the phone and sends a text immediately thereafter and I didn't pick up. I recognized her cell phone number, reminding me that I had this tutorial at 2:30. My intention had been just not to go to the faculty meeting and go straight to the tutorial, which is what I ended up doing. Finally about one o'clock I gathered it up and read these essays and sent responses. [00:07:21] I rode my bike to the school, walked into the tutorial, and it was one of the best classes I've ever had. I was totally present, very calm, intervening when it was helpful and standing back when it wasn't, promoting conversation between the kids. They were, [not what I'd call students in a professional school ] (inaudible at 00:07:49), but . . . 
THERAPIST: Helps us feel younger.
CLIENT: I don't need to feel younger, but they were very engaged. I rode back home afterwards. I saw another one of the tutors who was up for a faculty position, and she got it this year. I rode home and I was exhausted, but the anxiety was gone. I just felt as if I'd been through a fit. It was like an epileptic seizure or something. [00:08:44] That's what I would imagine the aftermath of a petit mal seizure would be. I cooked dinner. Jennie (sp?) came home about 6:15. I made dinner. It was a good dinner. I was feeling very quiet and then I just went to bed about 8:30 or 9:00. Jennie said to me in the middle of the night, maybe when she got into bed relatively late and I woke up in the middle of the night, something like, "I wish you didn't just go to bed without a word." Apparently I had just gone to bed. I don't think I'd planned to go to sleep. I fell asleep in my clothes. I said, "I was just so tired. I was so weary." [00:09:48] I guess what I was reflecting on as I was riding over here—it's funny how little contact I have with our automobile—I was thinking about the strangeness juxtaposition of the lucidity and—I don't know what to call this other state. I think it's probably consistent across these various experiences where I really feel troubled. This disturbance, I think, is very consistent. You named it, I guess. Call it englebert or something. It's consistent. It's almost as consistent as some more classically understood seizure disorder. [00:10:56] The strange thing about it is that it passes and, other than this exhaustion when it's very intense, nothing is left. The state of organization of my head was sufficient to engage in all of these high-level activities, to be with Jennie, to be very present and have a nice evening. We had a conversation about moral philosophy or something, so I don't know what to make of it, I guess. That's what's on my mind this morning. (pause) [00:12:03] The last thing that I'll say is that I was reflecting on your formulation of narcissistic injury or something like that. You kind of annoyed me to some degree, but I knew what you meant. The truth is that there is something in the interaction with the students, I guess, whatever the shell was of our interaction over the course of that hour, that allowed me to avoid or heal or remind myself that there was no real narcissistic injury. It was no ego dystonia—whatever you call it. It was fine; and when an interaction of that sort proceeds, there is a kind of repair for a time. When it's replaced with a more ambiguous interaction, I find myself back in this other fore-state of organization. What's curious about it, I guess, is that there's no memory involved here. I can't refer backwards to a moment when there was a syntonic interaction and intervene in a moment when I'm dystonic. It has to be continuous, seemingly continuous. [00:14:09]
THERAPIST: This has to do with what's actually going on in the present?
CLIENT: Yeah. Not necessarily what's going on in the present, but this morning I feel okay. I would imagine that if I had a difficult interaction intervening, then I would be in this other state until another interaction, whether real or perceived, whether animated or electronic or what have you, intervened. I can't recall. There's some interference with my recall or with my ability to generate these states. They're all generated internally. That's clear to me. I'm not delusive, but I need some kind of an interject to do that and I can't manufacture it. At least I lack the skill of manufacturing it. [00:15:16]
THERAPIST: What was it that annoyed you about what I said about narcissistic . . . 
CLIENT: Annoyed wasn't quite right. I guess I was a little resistant to the narcissistic part because it's not really descriptive. The myth, I think, is that I'm focused on myself and I think really that I'm over-directed, I guess. Maybe I'm just ignorant. (laughs) That's a possibility. But the way that I understood this implies that there is an injury to my ego. Maybe that's the same thing. I don't know. It's probably just throwing words around. [00:16:19]
THERAPIST: Like an insult.
CLIENT: An insult. I feel insulted. 
THERAPIST: I hope I gestured that I don't I think you're narcissistic or that grandiosity is the issue here. That's not how I see it.
CLIENT: You're fine. Maybe there is some grandiosity. Maybe I have an outsized notion of what my skills are ultimately, my capacities. Clearly that's part of it. If I felt very limited, if I were a genuinely modest person, then many of these things probably wouldn't bother me as much, so there's something there. Grandiosity implies that it's inappropriate, I think. (both laugh) [00:17:20] 
THERAPIST: That's pretty gallant.
CLIENT: Anyway I'm willing to consider it, so maybe I'm just playing the game here.
THERAPIST: I guess I feel like at the end of your recounting of yesterday and then thoughts, you're sort of headed for this "now over to you" moment. 
CLIENT: (chuckles) Okay. You said that on Wednesday, also.
THERAPIST: There's something about the way your thinking sort of stops there and you kind of "hand the mike over", I think.
CLIENT: There's another way to understand it, I guess, which is just that I'm telling a story and until I tell it to somebody else in a narrative way with a beginning, a middle and end, it's not a story. That seems like an important part of our interaction, this narrative aspect to the boundary encounter. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I think, consciously at least, that is what I was up to. I don't require that you be the only person to comment on it. It's just that ending the story means that I stop talking. (chuckles) [It's not how do you feel whether I do.] (ph) [00:19:51]
THERAPIST: I have two thoughts about that. The first is that this is something that you tended to do for a while, maybe since we started meeting. I am struck now by the commentary on the story that you add to the story about what happens and which, I think, reflects some better integration of these two states that you're referring to, where you can say, "Yes, I was in and out of it in this way yesterday," where you have some idea of what the triggers for it were and why, I think, and can track the swings. It tends to work where, when you're more into it for a while, you can be more out of it afterwards. When you're more into it and miss the lunch, you can be more out of it and really in tune in the tutorial. [00:21:08] I guess the serious thing to me is the way that there is a sort of end point where your associations stop and that seems to be like you can feel it coming. There's something about being there rather than the associations that I think is probably important. I guess I'd say at this point that there's some of each. There are some areas of the story and some associations to it like, "It was this. It was that." [00:22:09]
CLIENT: Do you mean that there is a point in the narrative where it stops or there's a point in some kind of process.
THERAPIST: It's like a point where you're going to kind of hand the mike over and sort of stop the story and so say, "Okay, Ethan. What do you think of that?" Again, clearly the point is for me to make something of what you said. I'm not . . .
CLIENT: Clearly there are aspects to this that would clearly benefit from clinical experience, frankly, like the contours of it, for better or worse. (chuckles) All maladies of this kind there are probably some danger of expecting too much diagnostic certainty. [00:23:10]
THERAPIST: To me the thing is there seems a point where your thoughts stop and you want to hand it over, which is in parallel with maybe some of the splitting off that happens.
CLIENT: The splitting off that happens and, you were saying on Wednesday, in parallel with this coping mechanism I've developed, where I kind of find somebody else's persona to hide behind—find somebody else to serve the functions that I've found it very difficult to develop for myself in a way that ultimately makes me kind of resentful or even kind of frightened. [00:24:04] That abdication, that dependency there is not very constructive. (pause) I don't know. I don't know. I'm not sure. It's interesting. It's an interesting thought. I genuinely don't understand. I think the part that's kind of thrown to you, the parts that mystify me about this story, are the dramatic nature of the transition. How I can go from a kind of catatonic state—it's not really catatonic, but I'm feeling really disturbed. I'm feeling really, really upset. In my mind it's like killing myself. It's really, really powerful and sometimes involves ideations of this sort, you know? [00:25:27]
THERAPIST: What sorts?
CLIENT: Just kind of suicidal fantasies.
THERAPIST: Of what, in particular?
CLIENT: What kinds of suicidal fantasies? Drowning myself. Cutting myself. Shooting myself. Just going through the various options. You know—specific ideations of the sort that are associated with, I think at some level, a need for relief. As you can imagine, these kinds of ideations are frightening and . . . (sighs) [00:26:23]
THERAPIST: If I just sort of get you to stop 
CLIENT: Intervene.
THERAPIST: Between your . . . 
CLIENT: I just want to put a placeholder there because there's something that I want to remember; and I don't want to interrupt your thoughts. Instead what I do, I think, when feeling this way is, in some sense, commit professional suicide. In other words, instead of actually hurting myself, I almost consciously—it's like at some conscious level, I'm aware that I'm doing—I'll engage in some activity that puts work off to the point where I think I will just have no alternative but to . . . 
THERAPIST: It is a small suicide with real consequences with both.
CLIENT: Absolutely. Absolutely is. Anyway, your connecting thoughts.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) There isn't much more to it. I think of how awful or inadequate or something you're feeling in comparison to your colleagues who have more status or, I don't know if it's also the students, those students are a pretty elite group so there's a lot of status there. That seems to be what you're reacting to with these thoughts of self-destruction, like a feeling of not being good enough or hating yourself for it, and which you kind of take out on yourself with these fantasies. I think the relief that they provide is, "Instead of feeling so inadequate and self-hating, I could take it out on myself by shooting myself in the head and, having done that, I'd be relieved of it." [00:29:15]
CLIENT: (pause) Maybe. Maybe. (pause) I'm very wary of my powers of narrative, I guess. I find it very easy, I suspect, to turn . . . 
THERAPIST: They are considerable.
CLIENT: Right. So I worry about something this elaborate. Maybe catatonia is just catatonia. Maybe a cigar is just a cigar.
THERAPIST: Meaning?
CLIENT: Meaning that there's nothing preventing somebody from analyzing these things on different levels simultaneously, but I just don't know.
THERAPIST: Like maybe the societal thoughts are just a way of getting out of feeling so bad. [00:30:40]
CLIENT: I'm just feeling so bad. I can't even tell you how bad it is, Ethan. I'm not a rational human being at some level or maybe a hyper-rational human being. I don't know, but I'm not functioning. I'm not functioning, like my executive function is completely gone, completely gone. 
THERAPIST: It's kind of like an internal tantrum or meltdown.
CLIENT: That's what we've been talking about and I'm pretty persuaded by that model. Yet another layer on top of the same event, but yeah. [00:31:14]
THERAPIST: And does the first part seem accurate that it's feeling inadequate and self-hating compared to these other people?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that's correct. I think that's the experience of it anyway. Whatever the ultimate train of thought or chain of psychic events is, that's definitely a very strong part of it. It's like an axis. That is the character of it. Those are the thoughts. The cognitions are all about that. (pause) (sigh) [00:32:18] At some level I think it's also like the dynamic, if you just think about the way that I interact with these imagined persons, individuals, the narrative theme is also of abandonment again. In other words, they're leaving me behind.
THERAPIST: I see. That's how the status and the abandonment piece go together. It's that they're leaving you behind. I see. (pause) [00:33:18]
CLIENT: How are we for time? I don't want to add anything else if we're . . . 
THERAPIST: No, no, no. We've got ten minutes. 
CLIENT: (sighs) (pause) So we had an interesting interaction in couples therapy. I have more mental health in my week. (chuckles) That's probably healthy. (both laugh) We were talking about a particular interaction Jennie and I had, a tough interaction. I was feeling like this, and I came home. It was a relief and it was nice to be with Jennie. At a certain point, I shared with her something that I was worried about relating to a couple that we know—a very old friend of hers and we have socialized with together, she and her husband and son. I said to Jennie after a long conversation that what was very upsetting to me about this was the sense that she was leaving or that she was pulling back from me. She felt kind of overwhelmed by what seemed like distress on my part. She was exhausted. She still had to prepare class for the next day. We were at dinner and kind of having a conversation and I presented this in the middle of this other conversation. I said this sense of her pulling back is really kind of consistent fear of mine and provokes a kind of intensification affect that's difficult for her. [00:35:33] As I was telling this to her and to the therapist, I did that thing where I'm just kind of talking along and tears are rolling down my eyes and I just said that I wanted to point out this phenomena, et cetera, this substantive phenomenon. We talked about it for a while. I guess I was musing about that as I rode home yesterday from tutorial. I guess it's the same kind of thing, right? I was no less disturbed in that tutorial than I had been previously. You differentiated in talking about my presentation between the parts that were integrated and the parts that were integrated, and I don't know. I guess maybe it was more integrated than dissociative, this interaction. [00:36:56] All of the students were supposed to write a case based on a discussion with somebody that they knew. Some of them blew it off and wrote about appendicitis. One of them was talking about a knee replacement. There were a couple of international students who had major operations. They were the only ones who had major health disorders in someone they knew that they had talked to. But one talked about a classmate who had, clearly, somewhat serious major mental illness, real distress. I was very conscious of where I had come from the previous hour. As she was talking I was thinking about it; letting her talk. We were talking and I wasn't inappropriate, but I was thinking to myself, and I think maybe the way I wondered as I interacted with her was if it was evident that this was something that was very personal for me. It wasn't clear, but I was aware of it, so maybe—I don't know. I don't know what the analog of this strange phenomenon is, grieving with one part of my brain and acting in this kind of analytical way with another part of my brain; but it's interesting how I was thinking about it. [00:38:35] 
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. 
CLIENT: In classes where I want to be, I want to be able to do that. I want to be able to perform the analysis and not be totally disrupted by this; and yet, I'm trying to figure out, I guess, the difference between doing that in a way that feels good, integrated, whatever, and doing it in a way that's clearly disturbed in some way or non-productive in some way. 
THERAPIST: Right. You want to be feeling what you're feeling, but not so knocked over by it that you can't also keep your wits about you and do the job at hand. [00:39:25]
CLIENT: (pause) (sighs) 
THERAPIST: It seems like all three of these instances, yesterday in the class while the student was reading about her friend with mental illness, the moment in [ ] (inaudible at 00:40:17) office, and yesterday when you were at home—maybe not that one as much—there is clearly some distance but also more cross-talk, I guess.
CLIENT: Is that what we're going for? Cross-talk? Is that basically it?
THERAPIST: It's a start, anyway.
CLIENT: It's a start. It's a start. 
THERAPIST: I guess the other thing, I suppose, we're going for is ameliorating how painful these kinds of things are in the first place. The point isn't just to be aware that when you get news of a colleague who's got a fancy position, you're aware of how shitty you feel and why, but also that you feel that shitty about it. (chuckles) I guess what also relates to the events we're talking about is your having a little more of a narrative or an integrated sense of how you've suffered from this and how it works. You've known how much this has cost you, I think, since you walked in here. That's not new. [00:42:13]
CLIENT: I've known how much this has cost me. What I don't know—this is what I was thinking about when you were talking for the record—I don't know how incapacitated I will be at the end of the process. In other words, what I can expect from myself after we're done. I think that's a real question in my mind. In some sense, throughout this entire process, I'm hedging my bets. I'm kind of stalling. I'm trying to get to a place or at least a trajectory where I feel like I can end up as good as I can once we arrive. I'm struggling to get a sense of where that is, and I guess I don't yet. [00:43:12]
THERAPIST: I don't know specifically, but I do think it's certainly possible to ameliorate these kinds of things. In other words, to both ameliorate the extent to which these insults, if we call them that, hurt and overwhelm you, and the way that your reaction to it occurring becomes kind of split off and also involves a kind of functional or professional suicide. I guess these are all reactions to the pain of these kinds of insults and I think that those kinds of problems, in general, are workable. You never quite know what the end state is going to look like, but it's certainly possible to address them pretty significantly. That is very much a therapy problem. We should stop. Did you want to stop?
CLIENT: No, I was just going to come back at you and agree with you that it has cost me an enormous amount. It's cost me years of my life. It's probably cost me professional relationships that are not reparable. It's reality. I'm not aware of these things. Anyway, Wednesday. 
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: Bye bye. 
END TRANSCRIPT
