Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session 14. November 30th. Oh, that sounds amazing. We've got another friend who's going to Chile for Christmas and is going to sleep in the jungle and is going down some river.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: And, just by himself. It sounded like a long — for a two week thing.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Leaving his wife and child up here around (inaudible at 0:00:23.8)
PATIENT: Yeah. You know when you do that — when you go on those kind of trips, it always or at least for me, it really wets the appetite. (inaudible at 0:00:30.9) go to Saint Thomas and all the rest of the (inaudible at 0:00:34.3) too which I'd really like to do. I'd really like to go back (inaudible at 0:00:36.7) But it's very expensive you know out of season (ph). The room I had was $10. It will be $30 (inaudible at 0:00:41.0) So.
COUNSELOR: What is the season?
PATIENT: December to April. December 15th to April 15th.
COUNSELOR: Oh. You're just a little bit before. Yeah. (inaudible at 0:00:50.1)
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. Right. (inaudible at 0:00:51.9) so but, it picked up my spirits a little bit I think going down there. [0:01:01.3]
COUNSELOR: Picked up your spirits?
PATIENT: I think so. I think I was a little — things were a little down prior to going. It was nice to get down there and have that change of pace in some way. It was —
COUNSELOR: Great.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:01:12.1) for a couple of days too. But, I mean the reason why we — the reason why I was (inaudible at 0:01:18.2) got all screwed up was because the parents called me prior. And, in fact I was just walking out the door to get on the airplane Tuesday morning. I told them I was there at 7:30 a.m. And, I was just ready to go and they called and said my dad was taking ill and couldn't go. So they were urging me to fly out ahead (inaudible at 0:01:39.5) just forget it. You know because we — it was Thanksgiving. And we also celebrated dad's birthday over Thanksgiving.
So I felt it would be really kind of crude just to say okay. Good-bye. Click. (Laughs) Then jet and go. So I went down to Miami and spent Thanksgiving (inaudible at 0:01:52.6) But, my poor dad is really horrible because he's receding so badly. He just gets frightened. I mean he just got a little cold. But he was or seemed a little to me anyway he didn't want to go because (inaudible at 0:02:08.0) afraid if he got sicker. Probably two things, he didn't want to sit in a hotel room and pay. And then if he got sicker, he'd have to go to some strange hospital down there where he might get bad treatment. [0:02:18.8]
But what was ironic about it was the guy that I met down there, we — there was another family down there who we were all going to get together with. You know (inaudible at 0:02:25.0) And I met them. This man had a stroke. And he could barely walk.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: He walks with difficulty. His balance has been affected. And, he was there. He went right out (inaudible at 0:02:35.9) river and the whole (inaudible at 0:02:37.7)
COUNSELOR: Oh. Wow.
PATIENT: Yeah. It really was something. Back up through jungle roads and everything and he was having a fine time. But, for one reason or another, dad has very negative feelings now in doing that and going places like that. I think he's (inaudible at 0:02:53.3) go to some place like that and he'll die or something or he'll get pretty sick. It will be very unpleasant. So that's a little bit depressing to see him begin to recede. In fact, my mother was making — saying things about (inaudible at 0:03:05.3) So, he's not very — and that was really depressing. [0:03:11.1]
What's funny too because when he didn't go — when I was just leaving for the airport that Thursday night, he was sitting there in his — like his P.J.s or something watching a football game with the newspaper sort of covered up over him. I mean really — it was really sad for me to see that and depressing for me too. Because I — you know the curtains were drawn. You know those afternoon sun - the apartment faces west and the afternoon sun was coming in too much I guess. And the curtains were drawn and I thought oh God, it's horrible the way (inaudible at 0:03:41.4) Just like giving up. You know (inaudible at 0:03:43.8)
COUNSELOR: No (inaudible at 0:03:45.0)
PATIENT: No. It's really depressing. Well really since he started (inaudible at 0:03:48.7) operations and the second of which was (inaudible at 0:03:51.5) successful but not entirely. And I guess an older guy (inaudible at 0:03:55.9) and that takes the (inaudible at 0:03:59.4) right out of him. So that was really the only depress — one of the only depressive things of going down to Florida. But they copped out sort of at the last minute and screwed things up considerably. But I'm not one to speak of screwing up other people's plans I guess. (Laughs) [0:04:18.1]
COUNSELOR: Well —
PATIENT: It runs in the family Judy. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: It wasn't that bad.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:04:23.1) responsibility.
COUNSELOR: Well no, I mean you cancelled a lot of times. And you've always been good about letting me know. I don't mind your canceling. If I know —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Ahead of time so that I can plan my life accordingly. But it pisses me off to sit here and look at the four walls (inaudible at 0:04:38.5)
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, yeah, I mean I am sorry about that. But it was terribly confusing trying to get out and —
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I can (inaudible at 0:04:45.1)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: And trying to get back to the office at the same time.
COUNSELOR: I've done it too.
PATIENT: Yeah. So, well apart from that, there wasn't anything (inaudible at 0:04:55.2)
COUNSELOR: All you did was have a good time. You're just enjoying (inaudible at 0:04:58.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: I — no. No. There was some — there was some bad — [0:05:00.4]
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:04:59.8)
PATIENT: No. No. There was some bad (inaudible at 0:05:01.7) They're —
COUNSELOR: Oh. Well that's hear them.
PATIENT: (Laughs) I got it all written down already. (Laughter) Here, I got my notes that I was taking (inaudible at 0:05:07.8) (Laughs) (inaudible at 0:05:09.4)
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:05:09.9)
PATIENT: I am unhappy because (laughs) (inaudible at 0:05:13.6) But, no, I guess I have to admit that that was really basically a (inaudible 0:05:20.1) enjoyable trip. But —
COUNSELOR: That's really good.
PATIENT: Yeah. That was — it was fun. It was — well (inaudible at 0:05:30.4) neither here or there. It was a little awkward at one point. Well, because this other family has eminently marriageable daughter and I think that they think it would be nice —
COUNSELOR: Oh. Wow.
PATIENT: If I were to have some interest —
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: In her. But I really can't because of she — I just can't conceive anything plausible developing outside of a pure family friendship and relationship. Because of her — she's sort of goody two shoes about things which — [0:06:07.4]
COUNSELOR: Goody two shoes with (inaudible at 0:06:08.8)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: Yeah. Everything is — every — she is probably as determinedly happy as I am determinedly melancholy.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: And I find that to be —
COUNSELOR: So what a pair you would make.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. Right. And, so that —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:06:22.8) that and —
PATIENT: (Laughs) That wouldn't work especially well. So, but it was (inaudible at 0:06:33.5) so that turned out to be a little awkward about that kind of thing. But it wasn't bad because her older brother — her oldest brother was down there too. And we ran around a good bit to some of the (inaudible at 0:06:45.00) night spots at least on Saturday night. And they're really seedy too.
COUNSELOR: Did you have a good time?
PATIENT: I was a fiasco. It was a fiasco. I don't even think I'll tell you about it. (Laughs) It was such a fiasco. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:06:59.6) so bad? [0:07:00.2]
PATIENT: Oh. Yeah. It was really goofy. A typical American tourist type. It came out — I'll tell you about it because it's kind of funny. But we came out of the — came of this one night club that was fairly decent in the right part of town. And both of us were drunk and saw these two (inaudible at 0:07:13.5) hookers hooked up with us. (Laughs) As it were. And — (Laughs)
So we went — so this guy who was (inaudible at 0:07:21.7) sort of drive him around the island and be there (inaudible at 0:07:24.4) was driving. So he drove us to this out of the way native night club that we went to. And we went there and we got drunker. And we actually, I guess, kind of ran into some people that we knew. (Laughs) And was talking to them. And I was trying to dance with this little prostitute down there. I was really horrible. I was stumbling around. She was getting expressively bored.
And, so then we went out of the place. And I went to get in the car and to go back and carry on. And only Dane stayed in the bar. [0:07:57.2]
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:07:56.8)
PATIENT: And they just cleaned us up because we said we — I finally went back into the bar and said we wanted one final drink. And, so I said I wanted a stringer. And, they didn't have stringers. This is what I was told later. So Dane pulls out some cash and starts buying (inaudible at 0:08:15.1) whatever that is. And they sold like $30 worth of liquor for it. (Laughs) Yeah. It was really a great rip-off. Brandy, Cr�me de Mint — I don't know — all kinds of stuff.
So, we get back to — I know I don't remember what happened that night. Oh. The next thing I remember is I'm walking across the pool with this — which is highly exposed spot with this native girl. And, we went in the room. And then she said okay, I want my money now. And we began to bicker about the money. And all I had was like two $50 traveler's checks. And she wanted — I think she said $20. It was very difficult to understand them. And I think she said she wanted $20. And I said well, do you have change for a $50? No. (Laughs) She says no. So then I said okay, well let's go out to the swimming pool and go for a swim. And, I was insisting that we do that. So she wouldn't. She wouldn't go. She says they'll arrest me, throw me in jail. [0:09:09.5]
So finally, I wrote her — I signed my name to the traveler's check. Gave her $50. Collapsed on the bed. Passed out. But just before I was to pass, she took the liquor and said I'll be right back, okay? (inaudible at 0:09:22.6) Okay. Fine. So she strolled out the door and I was out about $15 worth of liquor and $50 worth of (inaudible at 0:09:30.5) (Laughs) You know passed out on the bed. So I got clipped. That's (Laughs) That's the long and short of it. Fairly clipped. I didn't expect she'd come back.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: I was lucky she didn't bring her boyfriends back to clean out the rest. Because I had money scattered all over in credit cards (inaudible at 0:09:47.8) on the road. So, that was a — yeah, that was a genuine fiasco. But yeah, I think a certain path always leads to a certain (inaudible at 0:10:01.1)
COUNSELOR: Do you feel comical about it? [0:10:05.0]
PATIENT: Well I feel like a fool for accepting such a classic American tourist (inaudible at 0:10:08.9) to be clipped — get drunk and be clipped by some native whore. That was funny from that respect. I don't feel so funny that I stayed because you have to pay the hotel bill in cash. They don't take checks or credit cards. And I didn't have any cash. (Laughs) So I managed to go out to these other people and cash a check (inaudible at 0:10:25.7)
So, it was the kind of thing that I would get involved in. (Laughs) (inaudible at 0:10:34.1)
COUNSELOR: It was the typical (inaudible at 0:10:36.0)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: Tommy blew off his girl somewhere. I don't know what he did with her. But he did it because he had to because he was sharing a room with his father. So, it was (inaudible at 0:10:47.6) But apart from that, it was very nice.
I did find though that I — I ran into this girl's inferiority thing when I was down there (inaudible at 0:10:58.5) Because there were some single people around there by the pool. And, I had this feeling like I was really — I was right back very uptight again about talking to anyone. [0:11:10.1]
And, I — because I was convinced that I'd kinds of negative vibrations which would be injurious to my self esteem. So I'd rather not do anything at all to the pattern. And, there just wasn't very much I could do about because I remember at one point sitting at the bar to look through these eligible probably American or Canadian females who were — that I had seen before at the pool came striding up. And, it was about 6:00 p.m. They have a cocktail around the pool at 6:00 p.m. with some (inaudible at 0:11:41.7) band there. It's very nice.
And, I just remember this as being a vivid instance. I saw them walking up. I thought Oh Christ, I'm supposed — there's going to be pressure on me to say something to these people. And I'll say something and it won't come out right. I'll be a big fool in Florida. So to my relief, they just preceded right around me, kept on going. And I wasn't forced me banter and flirtation. Yeah. That was a close one. [0:12:08.8]
So, I guess I'm still in that being very uptight about those things because I'm so convinced it's going to end in a mess. And so, I just haven't been able to beat that rap. I find additionally that, for example when I'm talking with like these people that I was with that came, and Barbie there that when I really get excited about something and enjoying myself speaking of it, my own voice sounds to me — my own manner strikes me as being somewhat childish. And that undercuts my —
COUNSELOR: How about right now?
PATIENT: Not at this instance. But, often times, it strikes me as when I'm animatedly talking about something, it strikes me (inaudible at 0:12:58.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: Can you — was that an example?
PATIENT: Just right now? [0:13:02.1]
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: Well when I was telling that story maybe would — might be an example.
COUNSELOR: Gee. It sure didn't sound childish to me.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It sounded really like you were really excited and flamboyant in what you were into. That didn't strike me as childish.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It just struck me as excited and interest — that you were interesting to listen to.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well I hope that's what it strikes others but I just can't (inaudible at 0:13:22.9)
COUNSELOR: Feel like pass it off and push it under the rug.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, I don't want to do that. But, at the same time, I just — well, I don't know. That's just the way I feel. You can really get into these things but when you — the way that strikes you is other people are (inaudible at 0:13:42.2) For example last night listening to — went over to watch (inaudible at 0:13:45.9) with some friends and talking about Jamaica and talking about other things. And really align myself to come across in an amusing fashion with them. And it seemed to me that when I was doing that, the amusement level or somehow my response or my actions or something were — seemed a little bit — might have seemed to the others to be a little bit immature and something. [0:14:11.5]
I haven't had anybody ever tell me that except once when I was in college which I guess was a long time ago now that I — that my reactions and actions made others — struck other people as marking me as a younger person somehow. And I remember that because well I just do. So I've never had anybody tell me that but I just feel that way sometimes with the smiling and being — and then the — and that ties in with some other feelings that I have that I can't articulate at this moment. But, that just kind of wrecks the feeling of (inaudible at 0:14:55.8) that you might build up with someone when you're talking about it and they're laughing along with you. You know to have yourself feel like you're —
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:15:00.9)
PATIENT: You probably sound a little foolish and childish. And — [0:15:05.0]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it would really be hard to lose yourself and enjoy what you're saying.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, yeah, that's right because you're always pulling up and saying well, maybe I'll approach this in some different way or be a little bit more (inaudible at 0:15:18.9) about it. Or really what you think is that if somebody else has gone through the same experience and their reaction to it would probably be different than mine.
And their (inaudible at 0:15:28.0) is going to be different. And so, people can see that I have — that I'm a little bit unbalanced as a result of the way I respond to a situation (inaudible at 0:15:39.0)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Key thing that they might be able to pick up. And I suppose I just — I don't know what I — but anyway, that's the way I (inaudible at 0:15:47.4)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think that's a projection in some sense that that's not true. You're not so strange. Really. You're really pretty on the level. And —
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:15:57.9)
COUNSELOR: I think it would be exciting for you to be able to share your excitement with people.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. Right. [0:16:01.7]
COUNSELOR: I don't think that you're going to expose yourself.
PATIENT: Provided (inaudible at 0:16:06.1) same thing. Well, yeah, I guess that's just an expression of a general security kind of thing that exists.
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. That's (inaudible at 0:16:15.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: Rather than (inaudible at 0:16:15.1) true. I don't know. So maybe that's what I'm saying is that I still have that feeling of insecurity about things. I noticed that for example even when I return from vacation to work and the insecurity that I have is even expressed with (inaudible at 0:16:33.3) I haven't had — touched on this before. In dealing with work situations in such fashion that I was — I was and trying to get over it now and am to a certain degree. I was always willing to do the dirty work for anybody, do the hard work, the mathematical computations that were boring and time consuming. And do all that kind of stuff and do any kind of hard work or even embarrassing work so long as other people would approve and I could see myself moving along in some sense. [0:17:06.1]
And I hadn't had a point of contrast for that till this new fellow joined the office. And he's really very (inaudible at 0:17:13.4) guy in many ways. And I remember and I don't dislike him for it although I suppose there's a gut reaction of dislike. (inaudible at 0:17:21.3) is a better word because he's getting away with what I didn't. But I feel like a fool myself for having done all the other things that I do and having —
COUNSELOR: You look at him (inaudible at 0:17:31.9)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: A lot of myself (inaudible at 0:17:31.7) too many people's thumb.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You realized my God; he doesn't have to go through that. Why -?
PATIENT: Yeah. Why did I?
COUNSELOR: I was advertising that I didn't have a good self image.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:17:40.6)
COUNSELOR: By doing so.
PATIENT: That's right. That's right. And I recall having them because this fellow is 22. And he strolled in with enough confidence to have himself get to a level that took me a longer time to get to. And he had really (inaudible at 0:17:56.9) about it. And he just — like he tries to pass off little routine work on me now who's been there for four years. [0:18:05.9]
COUNSELOR: Oh. (inaudible at 0:18:06.2)
PATIENT: You know if somebody calls him and there's some tedious thing that you have to go and dig out a file, you call somebody up. And it's really a pain in the neck. He said (inaudible at 0:18:12.8) can you take care of this and (inaudible at 0:18:14.8) And of course, I did.
COUNSELOR: What did you (inaudible at 0:18:18.7)
PATIENT: But maybe a year ago, I would have. I decided well, no, I'm going to check with — I'm going to pass it on to somebody else who was able to do it. But (inaudible at 0:18:27.2) what annoyed me about it and (inaudible at 0:18:29.4) him and felt like a fool in my own part was that I would never, ever at 22 or even 25 had the nerve to tell somebody that's a senior to me to check up on something — some detail here.
And so then I think to myself, God damn it, I've really been fooled for having let people push me around. And then you say that's a very good way to summarize it, it's sort of advertising the self image where somebody has you do some (inaudible at 0:18:57.1) task. And you obviously don't want to do it but your eyes sort of drop and then you end up doing it. And then they say ah-huh, well so this is what this guy is going to do. See. And then here I am because they do it in (inaudible at 0:19:08.7) [0:19:09.9]
And I feel like in some ways sort of the — that I was sort of an innocent lamb. That's — in a way. And in my willingness to do - to try and be sincere, all I was doing was (inaudible at 0:19:22.8) that I offered too much of - I should have said well, no or been evasive or said gee, I'd like to help you that but I got (inaudible at 0:19:32.6) and can't do it. And try and pass it off and get away with it.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:19:37.8) That's just a bunch of hog wash. And you were just getting yourself in further with that kind of —
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:19:45.2)
COUNSELOR: Oh. Not at all. It's just — well that's (inaudible at 0:19:49.7) kind of principals that I've been dealing with here in terms of — be honest about it. No. Look, that's a drag and I don't have time to do it. And, do your own drags.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:20:03.0)
COUNSELOR: Carry on (inaudible at 0:20:05.0)
PATIENT: Yeah. Well that might — yeah. [0:20:08.9]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:20:08.2) gee, I'd like to do that for you. (inaudible at 0:20:11.4) do that for (inaudible at 0:20:13.0) wait tables for him.
PATIENT: Yeah. I see your point. And that's — so that's great. But that's just a matter of — in a way of you know technically the way you might handle it. And I agree that —
COUNSELOR: It's a big technique though.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's a big thing. Because if you say, gee, I'd love to do that for you; that's degrading to you too.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Isn't it? When you don't want to.
PATIENT: Well I — yeah, it can (inaudible at 0:20:46.5) that way. I just think of it has a diplomatic way to get out of an unhappy circumstance situation (inaudible at 0:20:55.2) what's causing these little. But I think you're right, even in respect to work, I can see that to a certain degree, you do have to just say well, fuck you and stand on that. (inaudible at 0:21:08.4) so unsecure in certain — in my feelings about that place as about my life in general that I've been very reluctant to do that. And so people might be getting away with more than they should. And if — well, that's true because of a number of things. [0:21:29.9]
But anyway, that's — the contrast between this fellow — this new fellow's attitude towards the unpleasant things you have to do and my own is really what's — it's pretty (inaudible at 0:21:43.1) And he obviously has a better — a much better feeling about himself. And, so those are the things that are still lying in the background creating all the — having that insecurity. Kind of things that are lying in the background creating problems for me if they do. And, I don't know. I suppose it just takes a certain amount of gumption just to put your foot down in certain respects. And you say no, in terms of work or in terms of —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:22:23.5)
PATIENT: Feeling a little let down. So, I began to believe I've really gotten so concerned with this that I could begin to believe all the (inaudible at 0:22:40.4) theories about - mystical theories about the way people work together in terms — have you ever read (inaudible at 0:22:49.7) Did you ever read American Dreams? [0:22:51.5]
COUNSELOR: No. I have read about 20 pages but not (inaudible at 0:22:55.3)
PATIENT: Well he had a section on American Dream where he meets this singer. And he meets her in a bar. And she's sort of a second rate bar — second rate singer in a second rate bar. But he becomes attracted to her. And, so he's got this great thing about — in the novel, about shooting. And there are a bunch of gangster figures that are also after her — pseudo gangster type and a prize fighter.
And so (inaudible at 0:23:18.3) character's a lot more sinister though. And so these guys are singing about how he — at the bar, how his hero, Steven (inaudible at 0:23:25.4) disposes of these people. And it has to do with shooting (inaudible at 0:23:28.8) at them. And he goes into a long two or three page thing about how he (inaudible at 0:23:34.6) this woman by virtue of (inaudible at 0:23:36.3) that he's throwing. That's (inaudible at 0:23:38.1) but it's good. And he's actually shooting (inaudible at 0:23:41.7) at her.
And I've come to believe that there is something in that in some peculiar way that you just automatically — you sort of do battle in a certain way without a word being spoken in some sense. [0:23:56.1]
COUNSELOR: Yep.
PATIENT: And that — yeah, you believe that too. Yeah. And that's — that people are going to achieve dominance or —
COUNSELOR: Not only battle but all kinds of things. Loving things, helping things —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Whatever. I mean like some time in an hour I'll feel like a client has put together a need of energy or (inaudible at 0:24:22.7) And I'll send them energy. And I've had clients turn around and look at me and say I don't know what you did but it worked.
PATIENT: How do you send them energy?
COUNSELOR: Well just send them energy. Just the way you're sending a psychic —
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:24:34.1)
COUNSELOR: Psychic (inaudible at 0:24:35.6) I mean you just do it. And you can just do it too. It's not a matter of you have know to bend this finger this way and get it all lined up. You'd be surprised what you can just do.
PATIENT: (Laughs) That's terribly good. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: Oh. Come on. Oh. I hate that when you do that.
PATIENT: I knew you would. That's why I did it. I'm sorry. No. I think that that's great. (Laughs) Anyway, I've come to believe that that kind of thing is true. And I never really believed that before. I believed that things were — I don't know — much more literal than that. And, I had decided again in connection with my brother for example. Let me tell you something my brother did to me when I left for Jamaica. [0:25:20.7]
COUNSELOR: Well let me ask you one question. Do you have any particular goals for tonight? The last — what have we got — 20 minutes?
PATIENT: Yeah. My goal is to try and talk about this kind of thing we're talking about.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And you want (inaudible at 0:25:38.2)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I just want to check and make sure you were doing what you want to do.
PATIENT: But in connection with this, the way people work together kind like (inaudible at 0:25:47.6) and let's — this is, as you may remember, it's sort of typical of my brother and my feelings toward him. I left the Tuesday and I was — I got to the airport. And I hadn't decided when I was at the airport whether or not I was going to go to Jamaica or not. I mean they told me to go and I was wondering whether I should or not. And, so I got there and I decided that I wouldn't.
But before I actually cancelled the reservation, I called George obsessively for the purpose of telling him to get back to the house which he'd messed up in a — after a party and clean it up. Because I was afraid he'd forget to do it. And the parents would come home and be horrified with the bottles sitting around and so forth. Not scattered on the floor but just the house was messy from a little party he had. [0:26:35.8]
And, so I told him to be sure and go back and clean it up. And then I said well, I told him what happened about dad. And he said well by all means go anyway. And I said I don't know whether I want to or not because I don't want to be with Kings — dependent upon them for the entire period of time and have to come over to their house. And — or they feel an obligation to me or I feel an obligation to them for that extended period of time. And (inaudible at 0:27:04.5) I feel a little funny about dad being down.
And he said well God damn it, you ought to go and so and so. He said dad isn't going to go? I said yeah. He said well I think you're a fool if you don't. He said yeah, I think that you and dad make quite a pair. He going to sit down on the floor and you're going to down there with him. You know the innocent way of comparison. It was incredible (inaudible at 0:27:24.8) and that's — that happens frequently in the family. Shelley does that to me too. She compares me to dad in some ways which demonstrates that I am a less aggressive creature and a less fit creature. And, I'm like dad in that way. [0:27:37.2]
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:27:36.5) your dad.
PATIENT: Yeah. So I finally and he just — again (inaudible at 0:27:42.8) shot that out. And, I said all right George.
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:27:47.0)
PATIENT: Good-bye. And I didn't even rail in him or argue with him or anything. So that's the kind of thing I see happening to me frequently dealing with people. And, for example when I came back, I really think that I've probably erected the self image and people being to feed off of it and expect it from me. Because when I came back, I called one of my friends with whom I watched the football game last night. And, I said okay, you know what because he'd mentioned it before. They going to watch (inaudible at 0:28:13.8) I said okay, we're going to watch (inaudible at 0:28:15.4) He said yeah, come on over. And he said well how was Jamaica? And so I began to tell him and to the tune of absolute dead silence on the other end of the phone. And a little bit like he was oh, oh, that sounds great. And then it was just like — [0:28:31.7]
COUNSELOR: A total bore.
PATIENT: Yeah. It was boring. And I was going on about it. And then so I said okay, I'll see you over there. So I went over there. What struck me about it was that if the situation were reversed, I would have come on real strong and said well, what happened next? And, maybe he went into the extent of fading interest in it just to get them more excited about going and make them enjoy themselves telling a story. And, that's exactly opposite of what he did to me. And just didn't make — made me feel like it was sort of —
COUNSELOR: Made you feel like zilch — zero where you would have turned up the flame and —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Let the person at least enjoy themselves whether you were bored or not.
PATIENT: That's right. That's right. And so I feel in that way that and those — actually people like my brother and people like this friend of mine. And after all, it's a very good friend of mine and a decent fellow. But I do think that maybe as you say, I presented this picture of myself so often that people expect it. And this is what they react to. This is what they get from their association with John Spauls is the fact that they're able to put him in a subsidiary position and have him building them up in some way rather than making negative comments. [0:29:43.5]
So it really brings on vividly to the fact to me that I really wrapped an entire lifestyle around this thing. It's emotionally a wasteland for me and, completely non-productive.
COUNSELOR: So what are you going to do about it?
PATIENT: Well I don't know how you get out of it but —
COUNSELOR: That's a great realization. I mean that's coming a long way. I was just realizing myself slipping over that and saying yeah, what next? Well I — that's the bad habit I've got. I want to acknowledge that that's a lot to realize.
PATIENT: And do you think that's entirely plausible (inaudible at 0:30:21.9) with the way you were (inaudible at 0:30:24.0)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: Well I don't know. The — I suppose the way to do it is just be more aggressive about things. But that jeopardizes these old friendships. [0:30:44.4]
COUNSELOR: Now you know I don't agree with just being more aggressive (inaudible at 0:30:49.8)
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Don't agree with that at all. I — what I'd do, believe it's the more honest routine. And that's what I was saying about that guy in the office. Like hey, would you call this and you're saying no, I don't have time to do that. That's your footwork (inaudible at 0:31:11.2) And that can be said in a nice way instead of just —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What I just said. That's the kind of thing that I want (inaudible at 0:31:22.1) that I think would be a healthier way for you to handle the situation.
PATIENT: Well how do you deal with a narrowing circle of friends that have come to expect this kind of behavior from me without -?
COUNSELOR: Expect what kind of behavior?
PATIENT: Well the kind of where you are sort of a edge up to — well where they have such a negative image of you so that they don't feel that they have to meet you halfway in terms of — [0:31:55.6]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Of appreciating things or sharing (inaudible at 0:31:58.6) like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Okay. Well first of all, one, you don't have to meet their expectations. Just as they expect you to be more and expect you to be self degrading and whatever these things are, you don't have to do that. I mean you can just be yourself and be — and I know that would be probably a hell of a lot more interesting both to you and them if you tell your story animatedly. Well okay, there's an example where it probably didn't work that way too is with that guy. Well if that was his reaction, fine. There are other people in the world. And also it sounded to me like what happened there was his was the social thing of oh, what about Jamaica? And it was the social thing to at least mention Jamaica. And, he wanted to acknowledge that you went to Jamaica. Where it would have probably been much more appropriate to talk about the details of it when he get there rather than over the phone. [0:32:58.3]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well we — I did that to some extent. But, well that might be so. Well I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: You don't think so. Why? What -?
PATIENT: No. Because —
COUNSELOR: What don't you think?
PATIENT: I don't think that it was — he just wanted to merely acknowledge it there at that point.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And then —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:33:19.9) that was just my guess from the other side.
PATIENT: Because it wouldn't be the kind of thing that I would do. I can see very many other people doing it. Unless you're really busy or something, you just want to split. And if that's the case, you're going to really say so.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But what I'm trying to get at is that well, be that way. Well, you know be the way (inaudible at 0:33:43.8) and all that. But the problem is; is that I kind of had that image of myself too, see, that my role is to (inaudible at 0:33:54.5) yourself is the way I shamelessly do with (inaudible at 0:33:56.9) my brother. It's really marked and less so marked in my close relations with others. So, I've come to see myself that way also as being an admiring onlooker in my brother's case. [0:34:09.7]
COUNSELOR: Okay. That's been true up till now. But, you've taken one step beyond that in realizing that that's what the role is and not liking the role. And saying it's emotional wasteland for you. That's quite a recognition. Yeah. I don't (inaudible at 0:34:30.0)
PATIENT: But in a certain way the mere recognition of it does not have to be that fruitful because it can just be — what I might really be doing by recognizing it is just saying to myself well, look, that's the way you are. You know (inaudible at 0:34:48.2)
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: Well is that what you're saying? Is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: Well I don't know. That might be. That might be what the ultimate effect of it.
COUNSELOR: Well it doesn't have to be. Well it doesn't have to be that though. Oh.
PATIENT: If you consciously decide that it wouldn't be that way. You see my sister one time intended that, in a long conversation, I was essentially a passive person and in some way that you couldn't change that aspect of your character. [0:35:12.2]
COUNSELOR: Well —
PATIENT: So what this might be —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:35:13.8)
PATIENT: All this might be accomplishing for me is a recognition of it.
COUNSELOR: Look, I think people change that are —
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:35:20.2)
COUNSELOR: Whatever their basic patterns are a tremendous amount. And I don't believe that bullshit that because that's your established pattern that that means the way you're going to go on forever. If you really believe that, I don't know what you'd be doing here. You're here to change things. I certainly think you think change is possible.
PATIENT: Well —
COUNSELOR: I certainly do.
PATIENT: Right. That's what I'd really like to convince myself of that that —
COUNSELOR: Well why not —
PATIENT: That possibility.
COUNSELOR: You could even skip the — (laughs) I was going to say you could even skip the part of convincing yourself that it's possible (inaudible at 0:35:52.8) (laughs) change them (inaudible at 0:35:54.0) I think you've changed — you know yourself that you've changed a lot in the time that you've been here already. {0:36:00.4]
PATIENT: I don't know if I've changed a lot. I've become — I think I've become more —
COUNSELOR: Aware.
PATIENT: Articulately aware of certain other things that were (inaudible at 0:36:07.3)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: What I — I think what I have to do is to try and — and again, is to assume a different role and make it convincing to myself. And somehow make it work rather than striving for (inaudible at 0:36:31.4) strained effects.
COUNSELOR: Well when you say that, what I get an image of is you are the castle. And there are two knights — suites of armor there. And you've just taken off one and said gee, this fits terrible. And you — boy, it feels good to be out of that. And, here you are and without that suite of armor on and just being able to move. And whatever under clothes you had underneath all that and that it's all — there might be a whole story of just well fitting nice clothes over here that you could pick out and say hey, that's my style. Instead what you do is just gee, now here's another role I could try. Here's another suite of armor. And you grab that one and put it on and see if that one — if you can make that one allotted for you. [0:37:17.3]
Well to me, that's a backward way of going about it. Drop the damn role and just do what's — do what feels right for you instead of this role bit and trying to fit the role. That's where I see you really getting into trouble is you trying to fit yourself to a role and twisting you and turning you out a lot. And that's what's unconvincing about is because it's not you. You're bored with it too. Why shouldn't other people be bored?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What's going on?
PATIENT: Well I'm thinking that that would — I don't know. Maybe I'm just trying to construct some kind of a counter argument without really seeing if it's true or not.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'd rather you look and see whether it's true before you go and (inaudible at 0:38:14.7) [0:38:16.0]
PATIENT: Well I don't know. I can see it going to a certain extent going to see how — you see again though you're right because I act — I'm thinking — I was about to say see how well it works. And, maybe that's where I (inaudible at 0:38:47.7) whether it works. Because then you're saying it works. And you're measuring up to some ideal.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: So whether it works or not in terms of (inaudible at 0:39:06.1) I don't know. I don't know. I'm (Laughs) terribly confused as well. [0:39:17.1]
COUNSELOR: That's (inaudible at 0:39:18.8)
PATIENT: Again the only thing I could say to that argument would be the fact that —
COUNSELOR: Is this a (inaudible at 0:39:43.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: I don't think that I —
COUNSELOR: Is this a counter argument?
PATIENT: Yeah. In a way. In a way it is.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Is that again, I just kind of feel that's — that that would — you see I got prepared to — I guess I'm - what I'm really saying is that I'm just not prepared to abandon that role playing aspect of things because No. 1, I don't know where it would leave me. And, I want to go in a certain direction. It's like — what I really want to do is just — and I can't do it. And this probably sounds enormously pretentious and maybe because I'm so mixed up in terms of my own — again, who I am and what I am. Is I think in certain ways now, I just want to be able to accept the part of — the culture that I came from - the role that I'm supposed to play. [0:40:41.2]
I was thinking of that last night when they were talking about having gone down with another (inaudible at 0:40:45.2) And how awfully that would have suited me. And I wished that I could have fit into that situation. But I never could have. What I've never been able to construct a viable alternative to that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I was thinking, they're all the time with us. And they went through — I mean it's a virtually Japanese ritual they do. They go into New Orleans around that whatever it is down there. It had some Irish bar and they came the bus up to the LSU game. And they get drunk and they come back. Well (inaudible at 0:41:15.7) getting drunk but the certain ritual aspect (Laughs) of it that they go through and how —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:41:20.6)
PATIENT: Badly I would have done it. Because I've been in those situations and I invariably say some kind of guilty, awkward thing and then it comes out you know. I mean that puts me back in my high school days emotionally. I'm seeking (inaudible at 0:41:32.7) But I had — I still feel that way. Still want to in a certain way now anyway, at this particular moment, this — in the last month or two months, I really wanted nothing more than to listen to WBBM FM and think it was — or not think at all. That would be the ideal plan. Just have no concept that there would be other things. That's been the (inaudible at 0:41:57.1) [0:41:58.0]
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So, again, you say be yourself and all that. That's — that would be the only kind of a thing I could think about it that most people don't be themselves. In point of fact and no matter what you may think —
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Okay.
PATIENT: Most people are not themselves. They go to military academies and they dress in totally arbitrary uniforms. And they're completely manufactured by them.
COUNSELOR: A lot of the people I know, I know people that went to the military.
PATIENT: Well I know a lot.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I don't care whether you know too or not. I know a lot.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And then they come back but they don't go into the west point or something. They come back and they're — and they — they wear their hats. And they got their briefcase. And they're right in ready to do it. And I'm a totally — my reactive to it is totally disorganized but there's a strong element of dislike to it. Or maybe I just can't because I don't have the equipment others have and can't function properly. Or I'm emotionally adolescence again where I have just all of the sudden sort of an anarchist kind of reaction to it. You know (inaudible at 0:43:02.0) And what's wrong with the tape recorder? [0:43:06.4]
COUNSELOR: Nothing's wrong with the tape recorder. (inaudible at 0:43:11.1)
PATIENT: So —
COUNSELOR: That sounded like you were a little angry at me. (inaudible at 0:43:17.7)
PATIENT: Yeah. I was. I certainly was. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well why didn't you (inaudible at 0:43:22.9) I'd rather say —
PATIENT: I don't look at the tape recorder when you're making a passion statement of opinion.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well I was looking at the tape (inaudible at 0:43:29.2) tape recorder (inaudible at 0:43:30.8) I really need help. On this session, I need help on where we're at right now. And, I was looking at the tape recorder to make sure that I've carefully monitored it because I was going to have another therapist look through this with me and decide where to go to from here.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: That's what that was about.
PATIENT: All right. I'm very sorry -
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:43:48.5)
PATIENT: That I was — right. I'm very sorry. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: Okay. I like to share more where I'm at with you. I've got two — oh, I've got about three different kinds of reactions to the kinds of things you're saying. One, I see you as a very real interest, exciting person. I really do. And I just find it extremely unfortunate that you're always trying to sell — trying to screw yourself into a round hole when you're a square peg or vice versa. [0:44:26.8]
And you're so unhappy because you don't fit this mold. Well, crap on the mold. My opinion is that you're so much better than that mold that you're trying to put yourself into. It's like, to me, to Biblical, it's like putting new wine into old wine skins. No wonder the wine skins burst. I mean you're a better stock than that. That's why you can't go through that stereotype crap.
I really don't see it as a weakness on your part. I see it as a tremendous strength that that role is hard for you to play. And I was just (inaudible at 0:45:00.9) and I was thinking how unfortunate it was — okay, I was envisioning you riding in that SLU bus down to the LSU game. Rah. Rah. As everybody's going and you're thinking rah, rah. This is fun or something like that? And, you can have two responses. Gee, I'm not good enough. Gee, I can't play this game (inaudible at 0:45:27.1) Gee, I just don't (inaudible at 0:45:29.1) I don't come up to par. Or you could say what a waste of time. Listen, if this is your idea of a good — I've got a lot better things to do with my time than this. [0:45:38.6]
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Or a kind of a thing, I could go for this. And I guess, for the most part, that's been my response when I've been in similar situations. I'm too good for that junk.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: You know? And you come up with exactly the opposite conclusion. Now I just find it really sad that you keep coming up with that conclusion. Okay. That's one thing. Do you want to say anything in response to that?
PATIENT: No. Except that that's — I in a certain — that's very ratifying for you to say that. It really is. But, and that's the kind of thing I go through to. I —
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:46:20.3)
PATIENT: I'm not unaware of the fact that that can be — that I don't know. I just reduced to complete incoherence at this point. [0:46:30.2]
COUNSELOR: What's the incoherence about?
PATIENT: Well I mean that's exactly the circle I'm in. On the one hand I feel that I'm probably in a certain way could develop into something that would be beyond that. But at the same time, I feel that that's the kind of person I would like to be because it seems to me that — ask and that kind of — I don't know. That kind of role is certainly asks a little less of —
COUNSELOR: Of you?
PATIENT: Of — yeah, of people sort of in general. I don't know. Anyway, that's —
COUNSELOR: It just (inaudible at 0:47:18.6)
PATIENT: How I feel. I feel very conflicted about that. That's exactly one of the places where my problem (inaudible at 0:47:25.8)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I feel very - I'm just going around in circles about it in a way. [0:47:29.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Right.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:47:29.7)
COUNSELOR: And that's why -?
PATIENT: See I don't trust us. I don't trust a strong or a rush of good feeling that would come from thinking about I really do have a viable alternative. And I could really make the thing work on some alternate turn. I just don't have that —
COUNSELOR: You don't have the sense that you could —
PATIENT: Strength or whatever to —
COUNSELOR: That you could make it any other way.
PATIENT: To carry that off.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well it's hard to carry it off as the complete thing on the first try off. It's hard to make a whole — it's a touchdown when you're on the football field for the first time in your life.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I see you as still saying look, it's got to be a touchdown or I don't play. And, that's one of the things that I see really tying you in and preventing you from having any viable alternatives. Because you say look, I really got to play the game well whatever the game is. And, you're not getting — you're incredibly hard on yourself. You're not giving yourself any time to say look, I'm just beginning this. I'm a novice. I'm an apprentice. I'm just learning. So I allow myself mistakes and I wish you would too. That's the step that you don't allow yourself and I don't allow myself a lot of times too. I might add. [0:48:53.5]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well that's definitely a lot of the problem with me. I think.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. One of the reasons I like you, I enjoy you as a human being is because I see you. I see the parts of you that aren't Mr. Perfection and aren't out there making a touchdown every time.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And you may think that's morbid but I don't. And I — there are a hell of a whole of people besides me that wouldn't think that's morbid. But I see you as very human with very human reactions to things.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And you're very interesting, vibrant in that kind of way. But when you start playing with this rah, rah or whatever it is -
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:49:45.4)
COUNSELOR: It's a rah, rah game and it's a college Joe good guy or something. And it's also a guy in the — that with a little cross of the guy in the grey flannel suit. And it's upper class, snobbishism or really making it good in the society — the big time. And it's a combination of those things. [0:50:09.5]
PATIENT: Right. Well that's true especially the reality — the striving to be as snobbish as possible. Well I — yeah, I just don't know what to do. You see at the same time, there's — the problem — when you turn a solution to the problem, it gets difficult. Because I don't identify myself as some over egotistical or something but I identify myself really with anyone. And I don't know where I do it out of fear or of some perverse pride or what. Because I don't associate with people that are not upper middle class rah, rah types. And, I really turned off on many respects or it really comes down to a complete lack of desire to commit myself to anything. [0:51:12.7]
A friend of mine (inaudible at 0:51:15.5) in college was a — and I may have mentioned before — was a bright fellow in literary and so on. And he took an interest in trying to get me involved in his sect which were the (inaudible at 0:51:26.0) probably more intelligent socially utterly inapt group in the school and form a little discussion group. And he and I used to talk. And he thought that it would be — he brought me to this club which was called (inaudible at 0:51:42.7) union. And, so we were supposed to get in conversations and talk about things. But I found their conversation to be — still didn't — I found them to be personally unappealing. And, by judging them from the upper level class rah, rah point of view, okay, so they were out. And then I get an upper middle class rah, rah situation and judged them from the opposite point of view. [0:52:06.1]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So maybe, I don't know what — would you attach an adjective to that kind of attitude? Is that just childishness or -?
COUNSELOR: No. It's not childish. You haven't decided which game you would to play.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that's why you're not going any further in therapy right now. That's the honest truth.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: You're not going any further in therapy right now because you haven't decided which way you want to go. It really, to me — okay, maybe I'm over playing it but it seems like a parting in the way. Which game are you going to play? Which game do you want to be good at? And you keep pussyfooting saying well, I like a little bit of this and I like a little bit of that.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I think you could play that game. I mean I know people who play that game very well. I've played that game very well believe it or not.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: You may not believe it of being into a lot of different groups that I have friends who would be appalled to find out that they were both friends of mine because they have such different values. And that's been true for me for a long time. [0:53:13.8]
PATIENT: That's a great way to be I think if you —
COUNSELOR: I like it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I've gotten a tremendous amount of enjoyment out of it. When I was in high school, I was a true misfit. Or was it junior high, I guess. I was a freshman in high school. And I remember this counselor talking to me about it. She said well — I said I don't have any friends. And she said well, why don't you — who do you like in your class? Why don't you ask so and so to put on some records and share some potato chips. I just (makes sound) sounds absolutely awful. You know that just wasn't my thing at all. That was like a duck —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Out of water. And, she says okay, well what do you like? What do you like about her? What do you have in common? Do that. And I also had this thing that I thought well, gee, if I'm going to be with Shelley, I have to be all with Shelley and (inaudible at 0:54:05.6) that I don't do from the word go. And she says okay, you know what? You know just because you're a friend in one area doesn't mean that you have to pledge loyalty to everything that she is about. [0:54:18.2]
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, it was a tremendous breakthrough for me. Because I did — in fact, I did become very good friends with that girl. And we shared a tremendous amount — and one thing about like this. And there were other areas where I just couldn't —
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I found other people. And I worked with that friend. And I learned a whole lot of different ways. And got into the deep things and then when we came that places that I said hey, I don't buy that. I want to go. And I'd go be with somebody else that I could do the other thing with.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I — there's no reason you couldn't do the same thing.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But see, I guess what you got to do and that's partly where the two suites of armor come in. I mean you see it as buying one or the other totally. Things like you got to be the rah, rah type or you've got to be the — I don't even know for sure what you've got categorized as the other things. [0:55:13.8]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well (inaudible at 0:55:17.4) is a good metaphor too. Because I suppose the (inaudible at 0:55:24.8) definition is what's a — you know certainly that goes for (inaudible at 0:55:29.7) except I just never got over it is what it amounts to because I didn't have a lot of friends in high school. And, but I just never made that — I suppose that friendship with (inaudible at 0:55:46.5) I had a lot of acquaintances. But I never got (inaudible at 0:55:51.5) There's always been - I've always felt that way about myself that I have to — you know a bit of a — not a misfit but I was just different than the other people and didn't have things in common with. And I don't mean that in any way superior or inferior — [0:56:10.1]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:56:10.5) It's just a part.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Right.
PATIENT: And —
COUNSELOR: I can do that.
PATIENT: So, I'm trying to — I had an episode I went through. And it may be strictly self indulgence but it might be also sort of a metaphor for what — the way I think of myself in a certain way. I mean in a good way.
(Phone Ringing)
PATIENT: Is that your associate?
COUNSELOR: I better check.
(Pause)
COUNSELOR: Okay. That's not quite (inaudible at 0:57:52.3) answer the phone (inaudible at 0:57:53.6)
PATIENT: Yeah. Well we're — [0:57:57.7]
COUNSELOR: Let's okay.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:57:58.6) Well the only thing was I just (inaudible at 0:58:01.4) that feeling. And I get (inaudible at 0:58:05.2) no matter where I'm at. So.
(Phone ringing)
COUNSELOR: Which is very important.
PATIENT: Well —
COUNSELOR: Which is very important (inaudible at 0:58:11.8)
PATIENT: Why's that?
COUNSELOR: That's the thing that (inaudible at 0:58:14.1)
PATIENT: Oh. Well it's a feeling — I was playing tennis (inaudible at 0:58:23.0) And, (inaudible at 0:58:32.8) none of these other fellows really knew each other especially well. (inaudible at 0:58:37.6) as far as I could see who were playing and we play about three sets and (inaudible at 0:58:40.9) It's very hot there. And I was getting a little bit groggy.
And it was about five of us playing. And, (inaudible at 0:58:48.6) I really — but I began to play very well (inaudible at 0:58:51.4) but I noticed that they all seemed to be having a good jabbering. You know talking. A good time and I felt very much excluded. And I think I began to play that much harder when I realized and there became that feeling of well, all right, God damn it I won. I won all the matches I was in. And I won (inaudible at 0:59:09.6) [0:59:13.9]
But, again it was all of the sudden, I just felt very apart from them and in my own little world. And I had strong competitive feeling though that I was going to beat them. And it was fuck you; I'm just going to win.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: That's all. And if you don't (inaudible at 0:59:31.7) little gathering, that's fine. Well in a certain way, that's the way I would like to position myself. Those would be the kind of business things that I have to do and kind of the people that you're with in that connection. But, on the other hand, you have a strong feeling that well; I can't really do it unless I really get into this whole thing. Unless they really feel I'm part of the game, I don't want to give them any (inaudible at 0:59:55.7) that they think I'm very much (inaudible at 0:59:59.3) See what I mean? [1:00:01.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I hear it. That's why (inaudible at 1:00:02.9)
(Overlapping conversation)
PATIENT: Yeah. Maybe I don't have that ability in my (inaudible at 1:00:05.3) ability to carry off that kind of cool —
COUNSELOR: Make it a —
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:00:09.3) kind of way. They're pretty persistent. Is that the answering service?
COUNSELOR: Oh. I just realized the damn thing, it won't pick it up (inaudible at 1:00:17.4)
PATIENT: That's right.
COUNSELOR: She'll call back tomorrow.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:00:20.6) So, that's the (inaudible at 1:00:28.6) Anyway, I felt it was sort of in a certain way a good sensation when you have that (inaudible at 1:00:33.0) kind of (inaudible at 1:00:36.9) because I was suffering from —
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:00:37.1)
PATIENT: I was suffering from a heat stroke at that point. (inaudible at 1:00:41.1)
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:00:41.4) very
PATIENT: But no, I don't mean that that way.
COUNSELOR: Like you were going to (inaudible at 1:00:44.8) I think that's great.
PATIENT: Yeah. (Laughs) (inaudible at 1:00:50.9)
COUNSELOR: I'm willing — I would like to spend another minutes wrapping this up. Do you feel that it's wrapped up and (inaudible at 1:00:58.1)
PATIENT: No. I'm not (inaudible at 1:01:00.3)
COUNSELOR: Okay. Do you want five more minutes? [1:01:06.4]
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm trying to figure out — I'm trying to help you find out where you are with this right now.
PATIENT: Nowhere. (Laughs) That's where I am. Treading water. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well maybe one point —
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:01:24.2) (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: That's (inaudible at 1:01:25.4) That's an okay place to be too as long as you say that's where you (inaudible at 1:01:28.7)
PATIENT: Treading water and (inaudible at 1:01:29.4)
COUNSELOR: Well see the game of — okay, I don't know. I don't know what you can do about the business situation because I really - well let's leave the business thing out of it. Let's talk about your personal relationships right now. Believe it or not, I also do work with people in terms of helping them relate this to the business associates and kind of (inaudible at 1:02:02.1) there. But I don't want to get into that with you. It's just too complicated right now. [1:02:09.0]
In terms of doing it with other people, you see it seems to catch on (inaudible at 1:02:18.9) being able to say to a person hey, I don't dig that. This I enjoy. Sharing that with them but I don't enjoy this other thing or I don't always think — I'm not interested or I really am no good at that. I'd like to hear about it some maybe but I'm just I'm no good at it. It seems to involve a little of that. And that's the part that I wonder what — are you intending to do?
PATIENT: You mean (inaudible at 1:02:51.9) that way or the people (inaudible at 1:02:53.2)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And say hey, here's where I get off.
PATIENT: Yeah. [1:02:56.6]
COUNSELOR: It seems like you get into an incredible ego trip at that point (inaudible at 1:03:03.7) saying no. I have (inaudible at 1:03:06.4) when you've played your hand out. Because that's all the further your interest (inaudible at 1:03:13.7)
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:03:28.7)
COUNSELOR: And, that (inaudible at 1:03:30.7) other than (inaudible at 1:03:32.4)
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:03:37.5)
COUNSELOR: They've played their hand out. They weren't interested in (inaudible at 1:03:41.6) No wonder they (inaudible at 1:03:42.9)
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: They just (inaudible at 1:03:45.7) But, that's why they weren't (inaudible at 1:03:55.8) And that's the same kind of — that's why I think it's very hard for you to put up a good fa�ade. [1:04:05.3]
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:04:05.6)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:04:07.0)
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:04:15.7)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:04:16.5)
PATIENT: Yeah. That makes sense. I don't have any question about that. But, I keep saying but. It comes — in many ways, it comes back to the point that, I guess so, (inaudible at 1:04:41.5) And that —
COUNSELOR: What are you going to do right now?
PATIENT: Well —
COUNSELOR: You were just telling me — you're going to tell me another argument while that's not true, right?
PATIENT: I'm trying to figure out what my — why I — what I'm trying to do is say out loud what my response is in the hope that — what my emotional response is to it. [1:05:07.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Because it's negative.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I'm trying to figure out why it's even negative because what you say seems on the surface so infinitely easy and plausible that anyone should be able to make that kind of an emotional decision. And it shouldn't be very difficult at all. But it is difficult for me and it doesn't work that way for me. I guess what I was going to say in that connection is again; I come back to the feeling of — the only thing that explains it or why I can't do it. You know which doesn't explain it at all is just to say that I was — have always just been unable to — I just felt like a misfit. I'm unable to make any kind of decision that would sort of balance things out. You know one against the other. And I seem to have an enormous guilt complex — [1:06:04.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: For not being a — not being heart and soul sort of you know the upper middle class classic type. And, cultivating some of these other things is really (inaudible at 1:06:26.5) secret vice that should we conceal. And yet I have to — the only time that I've really been exposed to any kind of alternate way, I always reacted negatively to that too. It just doesn't make any sense.
COUNSELOR: It doesn't make any sense that you don't (inaudible at 1:06:56.8) that you don't find an alternative?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. The reason why it don't make any sense is because it would — that would mean I'm the kind of person that maybe I just (inaudible at 1:07:10.2) enjoy this (inaudible at 1:07:11.0) and it just makes me more — the more I lie to myself to you know. [1:07:15.6]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:07:15.8)
PATIENT: Yeah. Say gee whiz, you know that there is some life in the old boy yet because (inaudible at 1:07:22.3) So, I don't know. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think —
PATIENT: And -
COUNSELOR: I think you are enjoying it. And that's a fine thing too. But, it's also a good thing to know that you're really enjoying it and that's where you want to be.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. That's why I say it might be sort of a childish thing too. But, I don't know. It's beyond you to (inaudible at 1:07:51.5) [1:07:52.4]
(Overlapping conversation)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:07:51.2) I just am — I (inaudible at 1:07:58.2) drive home my point one more time. (inaudible at 1:08:01.9) determination, I see you having — and I'm just summarizing — your two coats of armor thing as two very firm, distinct alternatives. And what I'm trying to push for you to say is you don't have to put on either coat of armor. You can stand here in the middle. And yeah, you can play (inaudible at 1:08:28.2) ball with those guys if you want to. When you feel like it, you can (inaudible at 1:08:31.3) When something goes wrong with those guys, you might find a few other interesting guy to play ball with that really don't fit either the A or B stereotypes. And there are a hell of a lot of people walking around that don't fit those.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And, enjoy that. That's the kind of thing I — I guess I felt a little bit — and I really have helped you into this dilemma in some points because I pushed you in terms of which are you going to choose. And I'm realizing that that's not being very true to my own training either in terms of that it's possible to you know. [1:09:10.6]
PATIENT: Yeah. Have a wide variety of those things. It reminds me of another — I'll just say this and then I'll quit because it's probably getting later (inaudible at 1:09:26.0) But it reminds me of another thing that they — in that movie the Conformist. Did you see that? That was a movie made from a book by (inaudible at 1:09:38.7) And the fellow at one point chooses — he's an Aristocrat from an Aristocrat family. And at one point, he chooses fascism and becomes a fascist agent and kills his best friend. I think it was. And then fascism falls, I guess in �44. But this is before that. This is when fascism came up and then fell to something. I don't know. And then he immediately - at the conclusion of the movie, you see him streaming anti-fascist -
END TRANSCRIPT
