TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Lately at work, it's not lately, I guess it's been happening for a while and it kind of reminds me of when I first started I got the feeling that I was depressed; I think I mentioned it before, like being like brain dead. The way I describe it is I will be at my computer and it's just really hard to focus and I get so tired just reading an e-mail or writing an e-mail or doing what I need to do, and I try everything like maybe it's low blood sugar. I try to get up and walk around. I drink water. It's really hard to snap out of it, I guess, when I do feel this way. [00:01:52] I used to, like in school when I first started I'd go to read a paper or something and two minutes in I'd be passed out, like I was tired. I can't do the work. (both laugh) I'm surrounded. I don't think it's because I'm not getting enough sleep or maybe I'm getting too much sleep. I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's pretty disconcerting.
CLIENT: Right. I don't know what it is. I don't know if I'm wearing myself out by doing other things, by ruminating or—I don't know. I clench my teeth a lot and I feel like (chuckles) maybe I'm wasting energy or something. I don't know what it is. I don't like it because it just kills all motivation and I'll be like, "I'll do that tomorrow." It makes me upset because I feel like I used to be really productive and really driven and could focus for long periods of time and now it's kind of just like ... [00:03:19] I blamed it on me sitting down. I like to be up on my feet moving, but still [...] (inaudible at 00:03:32)
THERAPIST: [...] (inaudible at 00:03:33)
CLIENT: I would say it's almost daily and it makes me irritable. I really don't feel better or get out of it until later in the day or I leave work and eat something or leave work and nap or something. (chuckles) Again, I can't tie it to low energy or I'm dehydrated—I don't know. [00:04:13]
THERAPIST: So what happens is you'll be sitting there working along minding your own business or whatever, and it comes over you in a fairly sudden way where you go kind of brain dead and feel out of it and can't really work?
CLIENT: And sometimes it starts right when we get in a meeting. Most of the time it's a couple of hours into work.
THERAPIST: Sometimes it's at the end of the day and other times it might hit at 11:00?
CLIENT: Right. In that state I'm just like, "I want to lie down." [00:05:03]
THERAPIST: When you were in school and didn't have [...] (inaudible at 00:05:04) all over the place, you'd sort of go off and read something and then [...] (crosstalk at 00:05:11) you were gone; and you'd wake up and feel better.
CLIENT: Yeah, usually. Sometimes I feel like when I was first getting depressed it was bad, but I would just be like, "I don't want to do anything. I'll just lay." I've just learned to move on. [...] (inaudible at 00:05:38) I'd have trouble in the library and just put my head on my book and [drop off] for about 10-15 minutes and get up and walk around and then start studying again. [00:05:50]
THERAPIST: Those 15 minutes of napping would get you out of it?
CLIENT: I don't know if it's the same, that's the thing.
THERAPIST: Okay, that might be ...
CLIENT: That might have been from just studying and being quiet for long periods of time and not moving. At work, I'll get up and walk around, go to the bathroom. I've gone outside and walked around the building because I was trying to get myself out of it.
THERAPIST: Right. You've tried eating things and whatever, and that doesn't seem to be ... there are a few things that make it sound to me like it's not just physiology. [00:06:34]
CLIENT: It's true that if I eat a huge lunch I'll be a little bit tired, but (laughs) I don't think it's that.
THERAPIST: It relates to when you started feeling more depressed I think you were saying.
CLIENT: I guess it kind of worries me because I blamed feeling that way—not doing better at my job or the reasons for those mistakes or feeling lazy.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I can see how it would get in the way.
CLIENT: Right. And being more irritable. I would say I'm a good listener and I sit next to another research assistant, Tanya, who is older and she talks a lot. Before I could listen, but now I just kind of check out and nod my head. I do that all the time. (laughs) I'm just like, "Ehhhhh." I can't pay attention to people. It's hard. [00:07:51]
THERAPIST: What does she talk about? (both laugh) Or what doesn't she talk about?
CLIENT: Exactly. I don't know. She'll talk about she tries to not use people's names and just say "he" and "she", and I have no idea who she's talking about (chuckles) or she'll say "my friend", like who's "my friend"?
THERAPIST: Why doesn't she use names?
CLIENT: Because she's like your friend came by and wants me to order all this stuff. I don't know if she's joking and just complaining about someone who orders a lot of stuff. I don't know. Or she talks about the other research assistant, Sophia, the older, Russian one, just how crazy she is. Or she'll talk about something her boss said or did. I'll nod. [00:09:04]
THERAPIST: She's kind of annoying?
CLIENT: No. She's super nice. She's really nice to me. I guess she can be mean to others so I'm the lucky one, but she's also extremely knowledgeable in a lot of chemistry so, if I ever have a question about mixing a solution or what I need to do in this protocol, she knows it. She's like our [blind] (ph) manager. She's extremely knowledgeable. She's just a little gossipy. She's a little bit on edge, too. I guess she's afraid of our boss, which is weird because I'm like, "He'll never fire you because you're an extreme asset to the lab." [00:09:53] She's nervous. That's just her. It's funny because the dynamic between her and Sophia—Sophia will talk back to our boss and be like, "No, I won't do that." (both laugh) It's funny. That's the way it is. Anyway, I guess I'm just feeling that drain. Drained. I don't know what to do. [00:10:36]
THERAPIST: You're saying the way you talk about it, I would imagine it's not that you check out, but that you kind of have less patience for how much she talks.
CLIENT: I guess research assistants in general in the lab, the stereotype is that they're gossipy or a little outside of the post-specs, I guess, because you hear more about what's going on in the lab. You don't move. People are coming in and out of the lab a lot, but we're always there. There can be a lot of drama with that and so I'm just kind of like afraid ... I don't know. I think she just wants to talk. (chuckles) [00:11:42]
THERAPIST: I'm imagining that you're having some sort of emotional reaction to her talking to you that relates to why it's harder to focus or why you check out of what she's saying and, moreover, that whatever reaction you're having, would probably shed some light or be a kind of special case of a more general reaction that causes you to check out, which is kind of what you're limping about today, I think—why you do that. Did that make sense? [00:12:32]
CLIENT: I do get really impatient. I used to get angry that she'd use pronouns and I was like, "I have no idea what you're talking about." The same with Sophia. I would get angry with her because she would be like, "Did you take this? Did you make this mess?" I would be like, "No," (chuckles) always coming to me first and she was a little bit ... and if you work with her it's a little bit hard because she's very stuck in her ways and always wants to do it her way—which is fine, but it's always me doing what she wants to do. I don't care because she has a lot more experience and PhDs than I have. (chuckles) I used to get angry or impatient, but it didn't solve anything feeling that way. Me obsessing just leads to drama, so I drop it or say I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: So do you get impatient with both Sophia and Tanya?
CLIENT: Right. It's more with Tanya. She's always talking about someone and I have no idea who she's talking about. I'm just like, "Uh-huh," but with Sophia it's more like [...] (crosstalk at 00:14:16)
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're a little bit more critical of Sophia in a way; but with Tanya sometimes what she does is annoying, but you don't fault her in quite the same way. Your own reaction of annoyance and frustration (chuckles), I guess, is there but, as you also say, you're kind of stuck in ... [00:14:43]
CLIENT: It's not that bad. If I ever had a serious problem where I think they were doing an experiment completely wrong, I would go to Ray. I don't feel like I must work their way, it's just ...
THERAPIST: Right. I think what you're describing about being annoyed may be significant. It may relate to why you check out, but I don't think it's because you have huge issues, per se, with them. It's not like there's some smoldering theory of who they are or within the relationships that has to be worked out. I don't think it's something like that. I don't know what it is, but what I imagine it could be is maybe you're frustrated working as hard as you do in the lab, working in the lab, because you're not really getting out of it some of the things you want to, such as a clear direction for your future. In other words, you're pretty frustrated, I think, broadly about career stuff and where you're headed and upset about the whole med school thing with the dean. Here you are going in and, it sounds like, working pretty diligently and trying to do the best you can and so forth. I could imagine there is a kind of worry/tension/frustration with work overall for not [...] (inaudible at [00:16:47]) an area of your life where you're feeling stuck and you're kind of saying that you've done the things you're supposed to do and are not getting the things you wanted to get out of it, in a way. I don't mean immediately from the job, like they're sending you paychecks, I imagine, but in terms of having a clear direction career-wise that you feel good about. I would think that that's both disappointing and frustrating and maybe something like the two of them being annoying can kind of touch off frustration as it relates to work in general. I don't know if that's exactly true, but when I said I think you're frustrating is significant, it doesn't mean it's because I think those relationships in particular necessarily matter in time. It's not like secretly I think there's all this stuff going on. I don't mean like that. [00:17:52] I mean more that maybe it's something about there are other ways that the frustration has a kind of significance to you that hasn't been clear yet, but that relates to why you sort of checked out in those moments. Again, I'm not saying it's necessarily a broad frustration with work, that that's the cause of it, but that would be one plausible thing, for example, that sort of comes to mind where you're just feeling like it's all really unfair and that you've done the right things and put in your time and done what you're supposed to do; and yet things aren't working out for you in the way that you wanted. That's sort of brewing for you and then, "Oh, my God, these fucking researchers," who is actually nice is talking like I'll be a mirror off of people I don't even know who she's talking about. That's the kind of thing, so there's a part of me that's just like this. But, again, that's kind of hypothetical but I wanted to sort of, at least, say something about the type of thing it might be. [00:19:14]
CLIENT: I think in terms of my job I don't feel like I put my time in like "where is my acceptance letter to school?" I guess the only thing I feel is like I've learned a lot and I didn't know a lot about immunology going into this, though it was my major. Sometimes when we have these meetings or collaborations we talk about where we're going to have this two-year project and we're going to do all of this, it's really exciting and it's really interesting. It's also because I've never heard of this stuff. I've never heard of doing this kind of genetic analysis or even the technology, like the machine I use for sorting is incredible. [00:20:12] So I get excited about that, but I guess the daily answering e-mails because for another project I'm the coordinator and a lot of people have e-mailed me about questions or they want data or whatever. I think doing that I'm less patient because I don't want to deal with people; I just want to work. I just want to do my own thing. I think it's just being interrupted, I guess. I think that's why I get annoyed. I think also it's because I don't want to deal with the drama. When I first started there was a medical post-doc who sat right behind me and she's been in the lab for eight years, which is really long for post-doc. [00:21:01]
THERAPIST: Oh, my gosh. An eight-year post-doc?
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. She was an older, Chinese woman, and she was just drama-filled and she sucked me into it and I was just like "Yuck." I hated it and I used to worry about it all the time what people thought of me because she would worry me in the way she talked about people. Weird. But once she left, that was all removed. It was just her. So again, from that I just want to stay out of the drama because I feel like the people who have been there longer tell stories about the boss, like things just happen. I don't want to be affected by it or drawn into it or starting things. That's why I feel like I don't want to participate. I think it's just being interrupted but, again, not always am I doing something. I've gone through this before like I'm looking at food recipes. Tanya always says I should go to culinary school because always looking at food. (both laugh) But I think it's like I'm being watched or they're looking at what I'm doing. [00:22:36]
THERAPIST: You're being watched. You're being interrupted. You're getting sucked into drama. Like you said, my guess is it's also interruptions sort of relate to the grind at work and are not always social interruptions.
CLIENT: Sophia asked me to do all of—she is a tiny, old, Russian—physical things for her, which is fine. I don't mind. (chuckles) Or she takes English classes and I help her with her homework. It's fine. I don't really care.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like it's not entirely fine. I guess it's fine in principal but, maybe in the moment where you're actually working on something and she comes over and asks you a question about her English homework, it's not. [00:23:24]
CLIENT: Oh, no. She's very understanding. She's like, "Oh, do you have time today? I want to ask you a question." It's usually just a work terminology. She's been here for 13 years. It's not like she's (chuckles) ... yeah. I think it's just that I feel that being drained and then when they come by I'm just kind of like, "Ugh. What do they want?" because I think I just want to be left alone. I think also because I'm drained and they interrupt me, it's hard for me to even remember like, "I made a list of things to do today to remember what I should do." I think I just hate how it affects my planning and being able to remember things because I used to have a really good memory and now I'm just tired and don't remember things. [00:24:33]
THERAPIST: I think the "being drained" feeling often comes first and then—I guess what I'm asking is—it sounds like you're saying the "being drained" thing is quite separate from the stuff going on with other people in the lab.
CLIENT: I may be a little bit more irritable or something, but I think it's because I'm really tired or pissed off that I even feel this way.
THERAPIST: I see. Whereas it sounds like not wanting to listen to them or having the patience for them that you have if you're feeling better ...
CLIENT: I guess it makes me critical of myself like, "Why can't I be nicer—not nicer, but less pissed-off." [00:25:33]
THERAPIST: I see. So the bigger question is about why you're feeling sort of drained and have so little energy in the first place, and that's unclear. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I was just thinking like when I used to be doing all the collections and I worked with another (chuckles) older guy, something about I always befriend older people (chuckles) and we used to sit for -hours sorting these cells. It's kind of boring. The technology is cool, but doing the day-in and day out stuff is just boring. You're watching numbers go by and we always used to say, "I need to get more sleep. I'm always so tired." I would always sigh or yawn or whatever. Most days I get plenty of sleep. I guess I would say I'm a morning person. [00:27:10] I was just thinking it was probably because I was just sitting and watching the—the thing about sitting. (chuckles) When I do all of my bench work I try to stand. I'm not so tired.
THERAPIST: This is where you're talking about sitting?
CLIENT: I guess sitting down.
THERAPIST: See if you had your old bed ... (both laugh)
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I don't know. It's weird. I feel like I've tried everything to get over this, like I'll eat no breakfast or I'll eat ...
THERAPIST: I thinking it's probably psychological. I mean, of course I'm going to say that, but [...] (inaudible at 00:28:20)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Is it something about the passivity?
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I'm trying to think ...
THERAPIST: Like being subject to all of the stuff that's happened? Instead of trying to figure it out, what pops into your head? What comes to mind? It's often more helpful—I know that in life thinking about things and figuring them out is often very useful. But what just comes to mind? If you think of what just randomly comes to your head. [00:29:26]
CLIENT: What comes to my head is my boss and not having maybe a project that was my own, that I wasn't doing things for other people. I think I often think about that because I'm always doing bits and pieces of projects for other people and never for ... I don't know. I also think that having a project of my own, not learning more pieces, because where I am in the lab is obscure and not what most people are doing in the lab. Most people are doing mice work or PCR and I don't do any of that. I work this crazy machine and do computations like computer science. I guess I kind of want to learn those things that other people know because they're valuable in the lab and I think that I should learn how to do those things because, if I ever want to go into lab, I need to learn how to do those things. I think it's just not having a "thing", a project of my own or not doing things for other people. [00:31:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah, like where it's kind of work for you in a way.
CLIENT: It's not like I get trashed on. People are very grateful for both the big projects, the (inaudible at 00:31:27) is the mouse one and coordinators for both and people are always like, "Thank you for doing this." They send me samples and I send them data and I process their samples. Most people are excited. [00:31:55]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like it comes from the way that you're treated. It sounds like it comes more from something you're just feeling a lack of. I wouldn't imagine it's as though you feel this is unfair. I guess the way I understand it, grad students are probably working on bigger projects that are not their own. They usually have some small piece that's kind of broken off that they're in charge of or post-docs do things that have a little more scope. It's sort of a periphery role that you do bits and pieces of other people's projects or coordinating things; but it sounds like you sort of have a want to own something. [00:33:01]
CLIENT: (laughs) I don't know. I guess I did have a little something, but it was crazy. I was supposed to be doing this thing, it was called the Brain Team (both chuckle). I was called in the middle of the night to come into the hospital and pick up a human brain and then I would ... (both chuckle)
THERAPIST: Now that's a call you don't get every day.
CLIENT: And I would process samples. I guess that was my project but, still, it was crazy and it was daunting because the human brain is huge. [00:33:49]
THERAPIST: So then it's not quite right that [it's a commercial thing?] (ph)
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: There may be other things. It may be a little bit of an alienation thing. It sounded like everybody else—it is something else that you're emphasizing and what you're describing is how you're sort of on the periphery. Even when you have your own project, it's sort of an out-there project or you're using a machine which is cool, but they trained you up on it because it was obscure and everybody else is doing more mainstream stuff. It's certainly another aspect of what you're describing. [00:34:20]
CLIENT: Most people in the lab are doing micro-array, which is kind of what I do.
THERAPIST: Micro-array?
CLIENT: Yes. They're called micro-arrays. It's the shit that reads the RNA. I guess I would be the lab expert. It's just the only thing I know is how much RNA and the quality of RNA. I know how to test that and most people can do it, but most people come to me because I'm like the pipeline. I do it the exact way that we have written about in our papers, so I'm the pipeline. So a lot of people come to me and talk about it. So it's not like I'm completely on my own. [00:35:18]
THERAPIST: Okay. Well keep talking and we'll see what happens.
CLIENT: I'm also at a loss and I guess I thought a lot about why I feel this way. I guess I'm getting annoyed with them when I shouldn't be. (pause) What just came to mind is (laughs) I bought a sugar bowl for my roommate from Amazon. I don't know why that came to mind. [00:36:12]
THERAPIST: You bought a sugar bowl?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because she was using a normal bowl but I got her a nice sugar bowl, one that was like a cat. (pause) Being in this state, it doesn't always happen at work, too. It happened on the weekend. Something that actually pulls me out of it is reading a book, like one of our bosses went away for two weeks and I didn't have a lot of e-mails to do before he left and I could read. I can always concentrate reading a book, but I can't always concentrate on reading the Internet or reading articles or whatever. I think it's just taking the attention off myself, me not analyzing myself. [00:37:44]
THERAPIST: Getting out of yourself a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess what I'm always reading is like ... the thing is I should be doing work, workout routines or what to cook. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Like what? You said things you were reading about are generally things you should be doing, like workout routines.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or like I'm reading science articles.
THERAPIST: What sort of workout routines or dishes or . . ? [00:38:33]
CLIENT: I guess I usually look at running articles. Articles in Runner's World, I look at [...] (inaudible at 00:38:50) (chuckles).
THERAPIST: [Bit Sugar]?
CLIENT: I guess it compiles a lot of articles from Health, Women's Health or Prevention magazine. Ten minutes? Blah, blah, blah. I usually don't like that stuff, I like more of food recipes, I guess. I don't know. I like vegetarian recipes or vegan stuff. [00:39:15]
THERAPIST: Are you a vegetarian?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't really take everything to heart. I may get ideas, but I don't know. I think it's just something to do to pass the time. I'm just interested in working out. (pause) [00:40:12] I get tired of it when I'm in that state like, "Uggh. I always look at the same shit over and over again. It's basically the same articles tweaked a little bit." (pause) Reading those things—I guess I'm like desiring to be someone else and reading those things give me ideas for how I can change. [00:41:01]
THERAPIST: How to change?
CLIENT: I don't know. Always wanting to better myself or feel a change. Also I read those things because I think working out will help me out of the depression or get me healthy or make me feel better. I need more B12 because I'm a vegetarian. I don't know. (chuckles) Maybe it's a little bit obsessive about my health or whatever, but for some reason I think it will help me. Maybe I'm focusing too much on my health and not on my psychological health. (pause) [00:42:21]
THERAPIST: I guess one thing you seem to be describing is how absorbing this is. Like how big a deal this problem is with feeling out of it or having trouble concentrating or it's so often during the day.
CLIENT: I feel like it drains me of personality and I just kind of obsess that there's something I really need to know—to be eating better or if I work out I'll have more energy or something. I just think it's obsessing about feeling better. [00:43:36]
THERAPIST: Well you really don't know what else to do, I think.
CLIENT: Or I guess it's in the nature of my past that doing something physical has made me feel better, which most of the time is true, but ...
THERAPIST: [...] (inaudible at 00:43:53)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. We'll talk more on Thursday.
CLIENT: It's at 9:15, right?
THERAPIST: Yes. I'll be out next Thursday. I'm around Monday and Tuesday.
END TRANSCRIPT
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

