Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
[00:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause, clears throat)
CLIENT: Good thing I have no work.
THERAPIST: Gonna put these down cause otherwise (loud clearing of throat, pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I was just at the post office mailing my ticket (pause). Jess said to me, I don't know maybe it was yesterday, that she spent $4,000 this month on the kids.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And two things popped up in my mind, besides wow, was 'What the fuck did you spend all the money on' and 'Why are you making a donations to the radio stations 'cause it showed up on Facebook. I mean if she donated ten dollars $10 or $20 you know, [wasn't that in the larger scheme of life] (ph)
THERAPIST: Right.
[1:05]
CLIENT: I know she paid some money for Ian' summer camp and maybe she had, Lucille's starting a new daycare so maybe she had to prepay that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I don't know what else she could be spending money on for the kids, you know (pause) so. Lucille's not on formula anymore.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Still on diapers but (pause) that's the point I shoulda told her. 'Well what games do you wanna go to?'
(THERAPIST laughs)
CLIENT: (pause, sigh) It's been miserable all week 'cause I just, I don't see an end, you know, I don't see things improving or you know, they seem to be marginally you know getting worse you know it's like I'm just, I'm just kinda bumpin' along, you know and, yeah it's nice to get a title order but one title order's not gonna do it, you know?
Right.
[2:11]
CLIENT: And I got a rush title examination, which I'm gonna do today along with, you know, the regular title examination but you know, $175 ain't gonna do it, you know? So it's just (pause) it's um, and now Jess wants to you know start working with the, the website people so I guess I can at least get her to pay for half the website but I'm like a few months behind on that, which may be the reason why they haven't been proactively seeking to you know update the the website, I don't know. But uh, I've also got this (pause) case I've had for a while where I'm gonna have to end up, they gave me a thousand bucks and you know I'm only, it's only a couple of hours of attorney's fees, but I've gotta spend, it'll have to come out of my pocket cause I've already, you know, taken the thousand dollars is four deeds and a survey which comes out to um $575 in filing fees.
[3:23]
CLIENT: So I'm gonna have to take that out of the retainer I have now for you know I just, any money I make seems to go for past you know indiscretions, you know, so I just um, and I mean the closing I'm getting is $116,000 loan so it's like $800, you know. Still have one for a thousand and they told me it was gonna close in March and last week they told me it was gonna close this week, it's the bank, I just don't know what's gonna happen with it, you know. And um (pause) I'm doing a seminar in two weeks with the other bank. You know hopefully I'll get a couple of you know estate plans out of it. Like the last time I did a seminar I didn't get any business out of it. I've gotta come up with some sort of material to hand out that you know, I could print off letterhead that has our name on it or, you know.
(pause)
[4:36]
CLIENT: Just like, you know, when (pause) when are things supposed to improve, you know, E&G; just you know, we, we're not getting new members, we're just, you know. I don't know if I, if I do it we're down to 11 members and um 17 is the number that they're supposed to be concerned about.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: And basically what they do is (clears throat) they come in and um they make everybody reapply for their seat, they open up all the seats and you've gotta reapply. Which I don't think I'm gonna have a problem with, I've been in there nine years, I've given you know, lots of referrals and made lots of money and I've been on membership committee and I've been president twice you know, I'm not worried about my seat being taken. But it's just a hassle that happening you know and um. We have this visitor day coming up and I just don't think people are, I'm not, I mean I sent out the 40 letters but I'm not gonna call anybody and follow up. Though I know that's what I should do, I just I don't know that's not me, I can't do it.
[5:52]
CLIENT: You know, I know it'd just (pause) call you know, just I don't know, just awkward for me, you know. I don't got some sort of you know — Jess's jumped on me before for not wanting me call people, you know, but I just... — Got a phone call I needed to make on a case for months now and I haven't made. So even even as I see, might E&G; dying, I can't do the necessary things to you know, and even if I made all 40 phone calls, we're talking maybe a couple visitors out of that so, so.
(pause)
[6:40]
CLIENT: Two people have called, you know, proactively called me and um, one to say she can't go. And the other, he's out of town that week, and my [tendency to just] (ph) just didn't feel right. (pause)
CLIENT: So I don't know. E&G; always has been such a huge part of the money I make. And with so few members that's...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...fewer referrals, you know either to me or to the the mortgage guy, you know got one deal going with the realtor, which is once again a deal I'm not gonna make a whole lot of money on. And um I just, soccer's starting and it seems like there's all this stuff going on that I'm I'm somewhat busy with but I'm busy not makin' any money, you know, got stuff to do but I'm not makin' any money.
[7:41]
Monday is the uh, Tax Attorney Association has these on demand continuing legal educations and Monday they're free. So on uh Sunday the new uniform probate code goes into effect, so I'm gonna spend four hours on Monday watching you know that seminar. I probably should you know uh catch up in that area, do a lot. I wanna do a lot of work but I do the work and um there's just you know (pause) I don't know, we're getting into the time where it's spring and title orders should be coming in.
[8:30]
CLIENT: Still haven't seen shit from Claire, you know, I mean, just doesn't make sense to me. I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing. Why I've not had problems in the past, why I'm having so many problems now, you know. I mean part of it was 'cause E&G; was much bigger and Ray was you know had done business long enough that he had made you know loans and he just you know seemed to have more business for me. But even that, I just always seemed to have you know one or two closings a month that was someone I had referred to Ray or you know (pause, sigh). And um you know we're in the middle of selling the condo, I'm spending my rent this month for March on covering up for the uh the past tickets, so I'm gonna be a month behind there. And it's just like I feel like I'm never gonna get out of this hole, you know, like
[9:50]
THERAPIST: Tell me more about the part about being miserable. Is that the first that you felt miserable all week? (pause) Um 'cause you don't see this getting' any better.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm just, I've just got this constant feeling you know that you know what's the point, where's you know where's, where's this gonna change, you know when it's all of a sudden I'm gonna feel, you know, comfortable with how things are going. And I just, I don't see that day happening. You know, it's like Jess, you know, yesterday morning she's like, 'Can you pick up Ian?' And my first reaction is just complete anxiety of 'Oh I don't know I gotta, I gotta do work' you know, but the really you know it's not that much work for me to do. You know this one case I could be working on and I'm gonna, I've put that off till Tuesday 'cause I gotta drive up there.
[11:00]
CLIENT: Um I just, you know she did the same thing on Tuesday, 'Can you pick up Ian?' I'm just thinking all this anxiety of 'Oh I should be doing' work but then I'm like 'Pff! You know, I'm not getting e-mails, I'm not getting phone calls, not getting faxes. I could just tell that everything's a constant reminder of just -
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) How little is going on?
CLIENT: Yeah I mean -
THERAPIST: How little you have.
CLIENT: I've got this, you know, I'm watching TV at night is like the only thing that distracts me from, but you know I get I get pissed off 'cause it's that same fuckin' commercials over and over again and you know I just, you know, and it's like when I think something's funny and I start laughing at it, even that reminds me of, you know, oh I'm laughing but I'm still got all these problems, you know. And I always wanna go lie down in bed but I know my mind will just focus on all this stuff and it wasn't, if it wasn't for the meds knocking' me out you know I probably wouldn't be sleeping at all, you know.
[12:11]
CLIENT: (clears throat) And um, I feel like I've got some sort of responsibility to my kids, you know, it's the only reason I'm still here. (pause)
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) Otherwise you'd be gone.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was thinking' yesterday, I'm like you know, Lucille. Everybody's like 'Oh you're gonna have a daughter!' You know, 'Daddy's little girl!' and I mean she's just still attached to her mom, I only see her a couple times a week, sometimes she seems affectionate towards me, sometimes I pick her up and she starts crying or wanting her mom, you know it's like (pause).
[13:02]
CLIENT: Ian wants to spend time with me but you know he comes over and you know spending time with me is just me being around, it's not like actually interacting with me or you know 'Let's go throw a Handball or kick a ball' or you know it's you know 'Let me go play with my friend Dorothy' or 'Let me watch TV' or you know 'Let me play with your phone.' You know, there's, maybe part of that's my fault, but you know I'm, you know, I don't know, I'm just not motivated to 'Hey you wanna, let's go to the park, ride your bike, you know let's you know just, I'm just not motivated to do something like that. And the weather really hasn't been totally (clears throat) cooperating I mean the, we've had a few nice days but you know, just — yesterday I picked them up, you know had my suit so I went home and changed and made him a turkey sandwich, made me a sandwich 'cause I didn't eat anything all day and then we went back to the house and just sat there watching TV, you know (pause).
[14:22]
CLIENT: And then, a little after four, Jess and Lucille came home and you know, she just, she seemed a little you know - brought me a book, you know brought me a book and handed it to me like she wanted me to you know read it with her you know. But other than brief moments like that and they're brief it's not like, you know, she's on me. She'll lose interest after a few minutes and you know, goes away (pause).
[15:00]
CLIENT: That fuckin' (pause) all the old taxes I still gotta do the work on, I got I've gotta do this year's taxes, I don't even know where everything is. I mean you saw my apartment, there's just piles of paper everywhere. You know I open up mail and —
THERAPIST: Just a, your head gets so big, I mean to me it sounds like um you're gonna uh keep both of us focused on like this sort of ticker almost of like, you know (pause). These things you have to do, these thing that aren't working out, the money you're not making, what you should be doing, like there's this sort of sense of almost like you know stock ticker like just kind of running through all this stuff but I have the impression that (pause] on one hand that makes you anxious and the other, it keeps your mind off how totally miserable you are.
[16:07]
CLIENT: Yeah I mean —
THERAPIST: 'Cause you feel like you really have nothing. You're not connecting with anybody.
CLIENT: Yeah last night was the coach's meeting and annual um meeting for the soccer and we did the coach's meeting and then they had all this food out, smelled really good, and at first I was like, you know I just I'm I'm gonna eat too much and the reality was, it's like you know I don't know any of these people, they you know are just, and I just fuckin' left you know, we didn't stay around for the annual meeting and I ended up falling asleep on the couch on one of the few shows I really wanna see every week, um do you watch 'Person of Interest'? (Deep breath) I'd wake up at like midnight, all disoriented, you know gotta go take my medication, walk the dog, I don't even walk him I just take him outside, let him pee and bring him right back in.
[17:13]
CLIENT: You know and, every time I, in my apartment I think about how I'd like to stay there for a while but you know even if I even if I I had to move, where could I move? I can't come up with first, you know first month's rent, last month's rent, I just don't have that money. I can't afford to move, but yet I can't afford to stay. And um I think there's just, haven't talked about it with Jess but I just you know there's no way she'll let me move back in, you know. There's nowhere for me to you know, I would have to sleep on the couch or down in the basement or you know just - I've gone ahead, everything's changed to Andover and um (sigh, pause)
[18:10]
CLIENT: A car, you know it's like a Tuesday night, there's some sort of coach's seminar at a Plymouth school and it's like where am I gonna park I don't have a resident sticker anymore, you know. We got a visitor parking pass but that's only in my neighborhood, then I can't use it in Plymouth. It's just, everything is, I remember how everything used to be a chore, you know I just I couldn't, everything was just you know. And it's not so much that things are a chore now, they're just, everything's a reminder of just how crappy things are.
[19:00]
CLIENT: I just don't know (voice cracks, clears throat, pause, then whispers) I don't know. (pause) You know I took, there's usually two speakers at E&G;, each get 10 minutes and I was one yesterday and the other, the mortgage guy, was supposed to do the other one, and he bailed. And I had gone to a um this cinema (ph), the founder of the local franchise, was giving a little presentation about maximizing your membership and was in Concord and um you know I was the only person there from the Valley, everybody was from Concord or Peabody or Lynn or Pembroke (clears throat) those chapters, no one in my chapter went. And um —
[20:11]
CLIENT: You know, uh, there's all these things that you know we should be doing in your chapter but it's like I can't get people to do the basics of just bringing people in, doing one to ones and you know just doing the little things you need to do to be successful. People aren't doing, you know. And um then we broke off into groups and you know all the, kinda sat around the table and we're supposed to be exchanging lists of you know, they call them top 10 lists and these are the people you want for your chapter. And you know the reality is, you know, someone going to the Pembroke chapter is not gonna want to drive up to Wareham. Same thing with Concord, same thing with Lynn, same thing with Peabody. And, you know, basically, um you know things seem to be you know, I was talking with this woman who's having like a title problem and then um seemed like it was getting kinda late and I just wanted to get outta there and I put my coat on and I was talking to our assistant director, and I looked back and everybody's still at the table gabbin' you know, just like um, I'm totally on the outside you know uh net, you know. I just, I didn't even know what the value was in networking with these people, you know. They all have attorneys in their chapters and just you know, um. (pause)
[21:51]
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) So I took, oh this is what I was getting at, so I took two speaker spots and instead of talking boring everybody with condominium law I did kind of an open forum. I kinda went through the the points that she had made and some people were you know openly, you know I said first of all you know, I said, I told them about how they'll open up everybody's seat and re-kick-off the chapter. I said 'But you know we've gotta set a goal of how many people we wanna get and by when' so we set a goal of 20 people by the Fourth of July. And um I said you know (pause).
[22:42]
CLIENT: To be succ — you know successful [in] (ph) E&G; they run the statistics is that you do one, have one referral every week, one one-to-one you know, meeting with someone outside the chapter every week, and then one visitor a month, and that translates to $4,300 in revenue per seat. And um you know, I'm looking around the room and um it just, you know, there's just there's nine people there, including me, so I'm looking' at this eight people there and no one's bringing visitors. You know one guy who's been in the group since the beginning with me, you know every time we talk about something like this he says 'Oh you know yeah we gotta do, step up and I'm, myself included' and it's 'cause he doesn't do shit. And he's not gonna do anything you know just (pause) -
[23:39]
CLIENT: You know the CPA is in um tax time, you know, she's not gonna be working on bringing visitors to an April 12 visitor day, you know. And um, I've got one person who is motivated and you know she's an actually an employee of the flooring company that you know, she's now coming and she's got a couple visitors coming, it's just, just you know, the assistant direct - , we, I invited the assistant director Luke to speak and you know he's gonna look around the room and see so few people and just you know (pause). I'm just glad that, I'm supposed to have a summary judgment motion hearing that day so I was gonna leave early and the other attorney is gonna be out of the state on that day so she wants to file a motion to continue and I was like Yes 'cause you know I didn't wanna go from the depression of that meeting that visitor day, go argue a motion you know. (sigh)
[24:52]
CLIENT: Just um
THERAPIST: Cameron I think it's pretty scary for you to be sitting here actually um because (pause) 'cause you're looking at all this stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah but I, I'm driving in the car and that's all I'm thinking about, it's like the rare moments when I'm you know, I'm at E&G; and even going through all this I'm not thinking about all my problems cause I'm running a meeting you know, or um chit chatting with Tracy or putting, just doing little things of work, running a title it's like I'm not, those at least are some distraction from thinking about all this stuff. And then it's like you know, it starts on Tuesday and Wednesday and I'm just thinking you know I wanna talk about it with someone, it's like wow I'm not gonna be here till Friday you know.
THERAPIST: OK.
[26:01]
CLIENT: There's, you know if I try and talk to Jess um she she's not gonna give me sort of any sympathy or you know understanding or sympathy or, she's gonna be like 'Well this is what you need to do to solve your problems' you know.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You need to be, you know it's like I'm going to this fucking thing on Sunday that I really don't wanna go to, I haven't done any yoga in you know a year um I don't know what's gonna happen and I mean obviously it's for anxiety and depression and I think there's probably some expectation that I haven't been doing anything, you know. But it's gonna be three and half hours, I don't know what we're gonna be doing, and I just feel like you know I just don't wanna drive to fucking [inaudible] and you know, she's like 'You're just on too many medications' you know it's like I, it seems to happen more when I'm over at the house that I stand up and get really dizzy you know, and maybe it's because uh I'm sitting over or I don't know what the reason, you know, and um happens multiple times you know and just reinforces in her mind that you know, shouldn't be taking all this medication you know —
[27:19]
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) Maybe you're just more stirred up [than you were] (ph) earlier.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe, you know. Um but um I just —
THERAPIST: I take the point though that actually it's more like you look forward to being here 'cause you can actually talk about this stuff rather than just having it run over and over and over and over again in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like you know, I keep, I keep wanting to just stop Facebook you know, I'm just tired of reading about these stupid little things or whatever and um you know I still I I check it on my phone, I check it on my computer and Jess had put in there how tonight she's going to the sunflower bar or whatever and uh -
[28:12]
THERAPIST: Sunflower bar, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah and so she's having desert and beer, you know and she's all excited for this and all wants all these people to come. And there's all these people coming, 'Yeah that's great, we'll be there' you know and it's like yeah I'm watching Ian, she's probably getting her mom to watch Lucille you know and not that she doesn't deserve to go out but you know, there are days I can't spend time with the kids because she's going over to her friend's house or there's, she's got a play date or you know she's you know. If you asked her if she was doing anything social she'd tell you no, but she's doing you know three, four times what I'm doing. You know, I finally have Handball coming up and I'm not looking forward to it, I haven't done any exercise. My first game is Tuesday night at 9:15. Since I have to drive out there, try and avoid having a heart attack, you know and then I don't have the money to go out afterwards and buy beer and and dinner at the restaurant, I just don't have the money.
[29:17]
CLIENT: You know, and I'm always the one giving people shit for not going to the restaurant and there's a few people on my team that, who are on my club team, and one of the guys who is, I really don't like 'cause he's always kinda telling me what to do and telling me what I've done wrong and how I should do it. And it's like I really don't wanna play with him and um just you know, getting old it's all you know young kids in their early 20's and you know I'm just, I'm just gonna go out there and and you know, probably not gonna have a heart attack but I really have a hard time, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know and then I'm, it's like the fucking dog is you know I gotta take the dog everywhere and I can't ride my bike and I just haven't set the bike up in the house so I finally, I got the DVD for the yoga that I didn't have my computer to watch it on. And then last night I just fell asleep, you know, I just, you know it's just the whole day was tiring between E&G;, just going through all this stuff emotionally, I was exhausted. And um
[30:30]
CLIENT: (sigh, pause, voices overlap) And I wanna
THERAPIST: I think all the, between the anxiety and the depression and the reality, you're feeling pretty much in a cluster fuck.
CLIENT: Yeah I've got no answers. I've got zero answers. You know, it's like I'm gonna leave here and I'm gonna be more depressed than when I came in. You know, and you know when I get to the the registry I'll be able to you know get my mind off things by you know doing some work but.
THERAPIST: What will have made you more depressed?
CLIENT: Just having, I mean, just —
THERAPIST: Having?
CLIENT: Just going through everything, you know, and as I walk out the door it's gonna be on my mind you know, just how shitty everything is, how you know um I wanna talk about everything before I get here, you know I wanna, I look forward to being able to talk about everything but you know this is just this is reminding me of you know, you know I always forget about you know, I think things are maybe turning up and then I'm like 'Oh no, I forgot to do this, I forgot to do that, I forgot to do this, I got this payment's coming up, that payment's coming up, you know just (sigh) just (pause). And I just, you know, I'm alone in all of this. There's there's nothing. You know, my parents, yeah I could, 'Just, just call me' but it's like ah. You know, you [might be like] (ph) well talk to my dad. 'Well have you done the divorce thing yet' you know it's just (sigh)
[32:40]
THERAPIST: Right they're not talking to you in a way that makes you feel much less alone.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: They're actually adding to the sense of burden and responsibility that you feel so overwhelmed by already.
(pause)
CLIENT: One of the things that this lady said, she says she came from a tiny family and her dad was, you know, tough and you know tying (ph) father. He used to always say that, you know, there's no excuses in life, you know only responsibility, you know it's like you know how does that help me, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (pause) You know it just, I meet with realtors and mortgage people and nothing comes out of it. You know, so why should I try and keep meeting with realtors and mortgage guys? It's just, nothing is coming out of it.
[33:51]
CLIENT: (sigh) I mean right now I've got one small shop sending me a loan here or there, it's I mean, it's maybe the first order they've sent me all year that, they think they sent me one earlier in the year that didn't close, it's probably blown up. It's like I can't live off that, I can't (sigh) you know I paid Jess's rent last month, which is one of the reasons that I'm you know, you take that away um and I'd have money to, a little extra money, that's $425 bucks. I spent $650 bucks on the fucking dog between the appointment and the medication, $650 bucks and it's like, you know, there's a fucking grant right there you know, and um one of the things Jess posted on Facebook was how there's no food in the house, there's nothing to eat when I go over there. And there's fucking, the fridge is stocked full, you know there's all kind of food in there, there's all kinds of food, you know there's lots of food for the kids you know, I mean there's bread, there's peanut butter, there's hummus, there's chips, there's you know fucking cereal there's you know there's all kinds of food in there, you know.
[35:18]
CLIENT: And it's not a situation where all I've got, I've got everything's full but there's nothing to eat, you know. (pause) And I've, I feel like I've played my last card with my parents that you know like my dad said, 'Oh you know,' like I was talking about my car. And I go 'Well, I had to get a new car, you know I have to get you to cosign' he's like 'Oh I'll gladly do it.' Yeah but can I take on a $2-$300 payment every month?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Still haven't paid insurance for last, for this month, and you know Jess's never recognized that fact that I'm paying for her car insurance, you know. I've been paying it every month, got fucking life insurance, you know it's like I'm, I'm like do I let the fucking life insurance lapse? I mean, you know, there's money in Jess's um policy to keep paying the premiums for a couple of quarters but you know with mine, I took all the money out and something happens to me, which is probably more likely that something would happen to me, then they're fucked. You know? I mean, completely.
[36:45]
CLIENT: You know, I wouldn't wanna leave my kids in that situation where they're completely fucked and I mean, you know we're talking a few hundred thousand dollars but that would do, go such a long way. You know and it's not like I'm really helping 'em out now anyways, you know.
(silence, sniffles, from 37:05-38:48)
CLIENT: You know it's like I need a big shake up in my life but I can't afford it, you know. (pause) I can't change careers, you know I can't change the focus of my practice, you know I just feel like my hands are tied, just (pause) saying I'm in a rut, this, you know understanding it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[39:28]
CLIENT: (pause) And I really don't want Ian coming over tonight but now I know that you know.
THERAPIST: Right, kids coming over.
CLIENT: Like whoever, her mom's watching Lucille can't watch Ian but (sigh) she's always you know taking 'em to the Museum you know and it's like, Jess's always, when I've got him she's always saying, you know planning it out for us. And she goes ahead and tells him, you know maybe, maybe you can go to the Museum with your dad.
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) Oh I see, yeah.
CLIENT: So it's like fuck, now I'm fucked, now I gotta take him to the fucking museum. You know, just, I don't have anything better to do but let me have control of the time I spend with my son, you know, 'cause it's just, she's always done this. 'Oh, why don't you go to the play ground, take the kids here, take the kids there' you know it's like (sigh)
[silence, 40:33-41:24]
THERAPIST: How much um, how much do you feel like you're completely walking out on yourself in all of this?
CLIENT: I don't know what you mean.
THERAPIST: Um, not having faith in what you are capable of.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I've, just, seems like I'm going through the motions.
THERAPIST: But um (blows nose) you know do you know what it's really like to be so (inaudible) all the fucking time? To be saddled (ph) with so much you really can't handle
CLIENT: It just keeps growing and growing, you know there's no, it's unrelenting.
[42:34]
THERAPIST: I guess it reminds me of like, E&G; were like, there's less and less of you there, um (pause) yeah I guess I get the sense of you kinda walking out on yourself 'cause like in terms of how hard it is to really, I mean you're telling me everything that's going on. I think it may be hard for you to hear about it, 'cause it is so overwhelming, and it is so awful and you are beyond your wit's end.
CLIENT: I mean I haven't taken a shower since Monday. It's like I just can't get myself to do the basic things.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[43:45]
CLIENT: I don't eat all fucking day, and I overeat at night. I didn't, you know I stopped several times to eat at McDonald's but other than that there's just no snacks or anything at my house that aren't healthy 'cause I know if I buy a bag of chips I'll eat the whole fucking bag of chips. You know the dog is sitting there in the car, he's constantly a fucking reminder I gotta spend $300 to get him a fucking cage, you know, so I just, I don't have the money.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
[44:44]
THERAPIST: I think that's time, unfortunately.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, um but uh, do you want me to, I guess I'll see you at nine on Tuesday.
CLIENT: Nine.
[45:23]
END TRANSCRIPT
