TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Did you say which session it is or do you know? 
COUNSELOR: ah, session twelve
CLIENT: ok, I didn't know (?) It was really a bad weekend. I uh...this last, uh yesterday, I said, "my gosh it's Tuesday already!" And I looked back on the weekend...and was very depressed because it was sort of a reversion back to before I even started coming to you. 0:00:25.4
Ok let me just start with the beginning. I've been looking for a sponsor. For someone to take me back over to England again. So I don't have to pay for it. And I've been writing everybody, not really thinking anyone is going to do it. And I wrote to the Mayor. And his office called. And wow, if there is anyone that I just, you know, the last person I'd like to have do it but thought he might be able to would be the Mayor. But he called! And there was no question in my mind that I would have to get my hair cut and put on a suit and tie and be as nice and kowtowing (ph) as I possibly could. And I mean it was just amazing! It was just like a completing my metamorphosis. Well and I did it. And I could sort of rationalize it, and say, "well it's all right. This is for money. It doesn't matter if your just not being yourself, because, gee whiz this is a free trip to England." And you know I was really good at it again. 
COUNSELOR: But then are you saying it was depressing?
CLIENT: Yeah, but look (overlapping voices/inaudible at 0:01:40) ...without even a thought about you or what's going on here. I mean that didn't even cross my mind it just happened so suddenly. I called one morning and the next morning I was to go in. 
COUNSELOR: That it was so easy. 0:01:59.6 (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah and...well...I talked him into giving me a lot of money. Well I talked his office into it. It's not going to be who I wanted, but you know...I still did it. And ah wow! I look back on it and say, "Well I was doing a really great job." I'd be a really great insurance salesman again. Which is just exactly what I don't want to be. But then again I did get it, which is, you know...
COUNSELOR: What you did want.
CLIENT: Yeah, so where is my head? Did I want...well, at any rate, I'm just saying that I was still good at it. And I lied through my teeth. Well, not just about...well, I didn't lie about things. I lied about myself. You know what I was. Had I gone in there as I generally look and act I'm certain I would have been out of the office in five minutes. There was no question. Well, so that happened and then the other thing was on...Monday, I went back to talk to my high school class. The old high school, not my class, but the high school. What I was really hoping is that I would look as ragged as physically possible. And then this thing came beforehand so, I was all neatly shorn for the kiddies and I really felt bad.
COUNSELOR: Felt bad that... 0:03:39.9
CLIENT: Yeah, that I looked straight. Wow, it was amazing, because...I don't know there is something about feeling comfortable in the image that you think your projecting. Whether it should matter or not. And I keep telling my self that it shouldn't matter. And yet it was perfectly clear this weekend that it did matter, a lot to me. 
COUNSELOR: Wait...that...what mattered a lot?
CLIENT: How I looked like...what I looked like to other people. Which is just such a basic simple ramification of my whole problem. You see my idea was to go back and be as radical as possible. But still show them that I had met the goals that they had...you know...their parents and teachers and everyone had set up. So I...like to consider myself as a radical as an influence. But there was no way in the world I could, there's no way! 
COUNSELOR: With such short hair. 
CLIENT: Yeah! And I would, you know, I really felt bad. And that's really...now the fact that I felt bad makes me feel just horrible. Because it shouldn't have mattered at all. It should never matter to me. Really. What I look like. 
COUNSELOR: I thought you felt bad because... 0:05:04.6
CLIENT: I felt bad for two reasons. I felt bad because of the way I looked and now looking back on it I felt bad that I felt bad. But there's just no denying it. Its not like something you can rationally say, "Well, I simply felt out of place." I blew the whole thing that was going to be so cool. I was going to go back there and be the radical that made good, you know. 
COUNSELOR: So you feel bad, yeah I see you feel bad about that. Then you feel bad that that should bother you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Let's say...you got it. Then the third thing happened. When I went to Kendra's wedding out east, I remember, I don't know if you remember, but I told you about getting mixed up with a very nice girl out there but, just not acting myself at all. Just being a complete ass! Well! She was back in town visiting me and you see it was just like a complete reversion. I was so conscious about how I was acting because of what we had done here that it was just no difference. The thing about that is, the thing that makes it a valid observation is because that was one of the...way back...when I first came in...that was one of the things in my mind, the immediate things in my mind, that made it perfectly clear what my problem was. 0:06:31.6
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like now that you're really disgusted and it's even like now I've talked about all this, like you're much more conscious of how you're acting. And so it's very disgusting or discouraging to see yourself acting that way. 
CLIENT: Yeah, the point is...I think, I don't remember but, there was one time when I came in and said, "Wow, a great thing has happened, that I was behaving differently. I don't remember what the happenings were but something had happened. And I was proud and I was happy. And now just the opposite is the case. And they were really good examples, they were just tremendous examples. This girl, wow it's the same girl, as a matter of fact everything was so similar. I even...the type of things we did. And uhm, whether I was...I don't know what I was doing. I guess maybe I was thinking more about it this time. But in the long run the way I behaved and the way I acted was not the way I wanted to behave. It was just...I don't know it was really bad. So very, very depressing weekend. One of the worst things about it, I didn't really start thinking about it until I thought about coming in here. 0:08:04.7
COUNSELOR: So one of the worst things about it is all this could slip out of your mind so easily. Just forget about it.
CLIENT: It wasn't completely forgotten. I mean it was there. I was thinking, but like, when I was back with all the kiddies, I really...I didn't feel bad about feeling bad I just was feeling bad. (inaudible at 0:08:34) I think you know what I mean. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah I think so.
CLIENT: And with this girl, it was the same thing again. I was more and more worried about how I was behaving rather than why I was behaving that way. Although I still a little bit back there I was thinking about it, you know, and the whole thing here. 
COUNSELOR: I guess that makes you wonder about how serious you are or something.
CLIENT: I don't know if it's a matter of seriousness or whether it's a matter of futility. 
COUNSELOR: Like it's useless to try and change.
CLIENT: Maybe not useless, but a hell of a lot hard than I thought it was going to be. Yeah. So if everything we've done, well everything that's gone on here is...it seems to be sort of like...well now it seems to me like, "oh, well, let's see if we can find any patterns in your behavior. Well we found them, isn't that great. Now go on, go out and observe." 0:09:51.5
COUNSELOR: Big deal.
CLIENT: Yeah that's nice, you know. I can see maybe if Jack the Ripper had an analyst he'd be able to predict when his next killing would be, I don't know. Maybe I'll be able to predict my next social coup, a bunch of lies. Or the times I botch it, when I end up being an ass. 
COUNSELOR: But if that's all you can get out of therapy, is just to see what you're doing wrong more clearly. 
CLIENT: Yeah, then what's the point? I mean I'm good at it. When I was home I had people impressed. And that's, you know, boring. Big deal, you know. There's so many people that I know that are just so far superior than me in just everything I do. And I can go back and make people think that the stuff I've done is impressive. And it's not. 
COUNSELOR: You can snow them so well?
CLIENT: Yeah 
COUNSELOR: I'm not quite sure what that...to see that ability in you, what that does to you.
CLIENT: Well...I don't value the accomplishment at all as much as I value recognition from the accomplishment. And I'm much better at getting recognition than I am at accomplishing. 
COUNSELOR: So...
CLIENT: So I'm not...Well! It's the same basic thing, I'm not me. You know I'm not an entity unto myself. I'm just what other people want.
 COUNSELOR: It's like you don't (crosstalk at 0:11:47.8)
CLIENT: Well, the point is I'm not coming up with anything new really. With any analysis. I'm just...I'm not saying I'm any different I'm just saying that no matter how much work we seem to be doing and how helpful everything seems to be that I just slip right back into it. 0:12:12.5
COUNSELOR: Then how...it seemed helpful for a while to analysis it and figure it all out. But it doesn't seem to be any help if all you do is just repeat it over and over.
CLIENT: Do you happen to remember when it was when I said I was doing so well? What I did? 
COUNSELOR: oh...I don't remember exactly. I thought it was a couple of times.
CLIENT: Yeah was I with new people or what? I don't remember. 
COUNSELOR: I don't remember either.
CLIENT: Yeah, I wish I did. 0:12:46.7
Well at any rate I'm going to...not think about it for about a week, two weeks...get this test put away and then I'm going to just relax and see people and try and get out of the hole for a while. But many more weekends like that and that would just...it would really start to get to me. 
COUNSELOR: You really totaled it (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah and the thing about it...as I said the most disturbing thing about it was that I was so caught up in it and so busy with it. But it didn't bother me until after I thought about coming in here. 
COUNSELOR: But that's what's so disturbing about it is you can get so, so involved in it, that you forget the rest of yourself.
CLIENT: It's not a complete disassociation from my mind but it's graphically below the level of major concern, you know? It's sort of like if I saw you in the crowd at any one given point I might think, "Well, let's see about how I'm acting now. Am I being myself? Am I being honest? And then I just go right on lying. But I think about it. 
COUNSELOR: You make a momentary impression, a little impression. Like all this seems very unimportant when you're out there. 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just the opposite of course. Well again maybe we can go back to if everyone I know died tomorrow. Those people back home and all people that in one way or another knew me. So I had (inaudible at 0:14:31.7) to hold up. Well, the question is you know, what I brought up last time. There isn't any real hope for overcoming the problem. There's hope for anyone (inaudible at 0:14:50.9) 09:00:48.1
COUNSELOR: Maybe it's useless to try to really change things. Maybe it's so ingrained in you I guess you'd say, so much (inaudible at 0:15:00.1)
CLIENT: If I were two people I would really hate that. I'd really hate myself. If I were the person that's talking to you now, and I was the person that was doing all that crap this weekend the former would really not get along with the latter at all. I'm worse than my roommate in that right now. I just, I...wow! 
COUNSELOR: so you feel a lot of animosity?
CLIENT: Yeah. Especially if I knew them real well. Just observing I'd just be seething inside. But if I knew the guy...
COUNSELOR: So that whole part of yourself really, really turns you off when you're in this part. 
CLIENT: Yeah. But...I don't know. How about this? Maybe I'm just saying that. Because... No, I'm not just saying that. No, it's true. I was going to say that maybe I'm saying that because I have this image of me being this egocentric image of me and this is one thing that isn't good about me, the fact that I do lie. And therefore to better enhance my image of myself I have to get rid of this one last thing. So it's really just the same thing over and over again. Self-glorification. 0:16:22.8
COUNSELOR: Now when you stated that you said...is that true or not?
CLIENT: No, I don't think so. It seemed like a reasonable thought to bring up. 
COUNSELOR: I guess what's happening right now, is that you feeling pretty discouraged because you're trying to think of other ways to look at what was so discouraging.
CLIENT: Yeah, but there isn't any. I mean I would hate to think that all the time that you've (inaudible at 0:16:52.6) with me is wasted. But you see I had 25 years to work with myself before you had (inaudible at 0:16:59.8) sessions. Maybe that is the case, I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Maybe, what is the choice?
CLIENT: That I'm going to win. Or this other guy behind the door is going to win. 
COUNSELOR: It's almost like there's kind of a struggle going on. Like the guy this weekend and is sort of having a struggle with me who's pulling for the other guy.
CLIENT: Right. If I were to fail the test I think it would be one of the best things that could happen to me, to the me that you're talking to. Because there's just so many things I could do, it would be really great. I could just fly over to Europe and just get a job somewhere. Not only with completely different people around me, but a just completely different culture. I could really look at myself and just you know, and change everything and I wouldn't have to tell anyone, anybody anything about me. Nothing at all. 0:18:12.4
COUNSELOR: It would give you a lot of freedom to go into a whole new situation.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I could go... in the summer of '67 I worked in Europe. And I would love to go back there just to build fences in Europe (?). I really wouldn't do it for a life's work. Boy, what a great thing to do for about a year without anyone giving a damn about whether I can swim or whether I'm a physicist. Or anything else. 
COUNSELOR: Just being...without all those outside pressures.
CLIENT: Well yeah, self induced they're not outside, they're internal. 
COUNSELOR: Putting all those pressures on yourself.
CLIENT: Question is though would I do that immediately and then set up new expectations. 
COUNSELOR: It's just a feeling (ph)...is it possible that in a way it sounds like this whole thing about these two people and all that is in a way summing up a lot of expectations too. And you must feel that as a kind of pressure on yourself to change into this other kind of person. 0:19:27.7
CLIENT: You mean the expectations for myself?
COUNSELOR: Hu huh. 
CLIENT: Yeah I don't think it's as much...yeah that's probably true. Except I looked at it differently. I look at it as other people's expectations. I mean I bask in the glory I get from them. Because of the...well yeah...well it's the same thing, see I feel good when other people recognize something I've done. Therefore it's my own expectation to do something because then...it's not so much doing it, it's having it recognized.
COUNSELOR: So what's really important to you is being recognized. And what really makes you feel bad is feeling like nobody's noticing what you're doing.
CLIENT: Oh no. On the contrary. A lot of people are noticing. 
COUNSELOR: I said what makes you feel bad.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Isn't that what you said, is if nobodies noticing you?
CLIENT: Well, first of all, I've always been able to make people notice so it hasn't happened.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: So, no, that isn't what makes me feel bad. I think what makes me feel bad...you mean the person that's talking to you right now.(inaudible/cross talk at 0:21:00.2) What makes me feel bad when I sit here and talk to you is the fact that I'm so guided by those expectations. What makes him feel bad...not a lot. 0:21:15.9
COUNSELOR: Not too much?
CLIENT: No, he's really reveling in his ability to con. And only on Tuesday when he thinks about what's happened all week does he...does that self lose identity and this one starts to take over and then I really start to feel bad. 
But can I reconcile the two people? I don't know. This week has kind of shown me that I can (ph). I mean, you know, it's the same...everything's the same. The same body, the same head, the same everything. Except one is so dishonest to himself and to other people. 0:22:12.1
COUNSELOR: So can I reconcile and try to live with both of them?
 
CLIENT: Yeah. Well no! I don't want to live with both of them. 
COUNSELOR: Well can you?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:22:31.1) would be to study up on the data for the test, and not take it. And then go out and be myself. I really feel up to it. Because that would mean that this me has taken over completely. A hundred percent. 
COUNSELOR: And that would feel great? (inaudible at 0:22:45.3)
CLIENT: I know I won't do that. Even though (inaudible at 0:22:50.2). Though I don't know. You once said the purpose of these visits may not be to change a person, but to make him more aware of why he behaves the way he does. 0:23:11.4
COUNSELOR: Did I say that?
CLIENT: I don't know. That's what I interpreted you to say. So it doesn't matter does it, if that's what I interpret? (laughter) No, you were worried more about feelings, so a person knows why his feelings are the way they are. I think that's what you said. Whether or not you said that is neither here nor there. 
COUNSELOR: No, it's what his feelings are, rather than why. 
CLIENT: Oh, well now there's a difference there! I remembered it as you saying "why"
COUNSELOR: If I did, I meant what.
CLIENT: No, but everyone knows what his feelings are don't they? 
COUNSELOR: No I don't think so. Are you saying you think so? 0:23:50.4
CLIENT: Well sure. You know whether you're the best or whether you're happy or you're thinking between or whether you're proud or ashamed. 
COUNSELOR: Well I guess it's something like sometimes I think for example; people are ashamed of feeling a certain way. So then they sort of hide it from themselves. Then they lose track.
CLIENT: Oh, I see. Well...
COUNSELOR: I just haven't thought of that situation sometime.
CLIENT: Oh, I see, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: To feel it through. 0:24:27.0
CLIENT: Ok, but...Oh, that makes a whole different...that makes everything a little different. I was thinking that I was saying, "Well, maybe I won't be able to change, but at least I'll know why I act the way I do." But it's not a matter of why, but it's a matter of what. Not what...ah, yeah, what my feelings... I don't think there ever was a question in my mind what my feelings were. 
COUNSELOR: In your (inaudible at 0:25:06.0).
CLIENT: I'm confused here now. I don't know what you mean by knowing what your feelings are. Do you think that I knew what my feelings were at most junctures? 
COUNSELOR: I think that...I'm haven't gone into it enough to really know you that well. I think that I often don't know what my feelings are about things. Many people I know don't. So my guess is that you don't. But, you know...
CLIENT: I think we've got a semantic problem.
COUNSELOR: What, how is that? 0:25:54.3
CLIENT: Well I just...to not know what one's feelings are is sort of a contradiction in terms. Because feelings, it just implies sense. It's what you...it's how you react to something, how you feel about something. 
COUNSELOR: Let me put it this way...then: I think there are in any kind of situation there are a lot of feelings. For one thing, people don't take the time to think them through, so if you might think about a situation and say, "I was really, now I realize that I was really angry at that guy, but I didn't realize that before. And now that I realize that I was angry then that changes how I feel about what happened. And not only deny, but I might say a little later, "Now I not only realize I was angry but I was hurt by that."
CLIENT: Ok, I see what you mean. But I don't think that's my problem. Because I can look at any given situation you know, that happens during the weekend and I can come in on Wednesday and I figure it out. What my feelings were.
COUNSELOR: I guess an example of it is like; feeling all weekend, not bothered by any of this that was happening, then realizing later, say when you come in here, or thinking of coming in here, that there's a part of you that's unhappy and upset about that. 
CLIENT: Oh, I see. Not realizing that feeling in me. 
COUNSELOR: That's right.
CLIENT: Oh, ok. That's because I had separated two completely different people, separated into two completely different people. And that person didn't feel that way. 
COUNSELOR: That's right. But that person didn't realize about the other person. 0:27:54.7
CLIENT: So all I have to do is carry a picture of you around and whenever I start to feel like I'm slipping, I can say, "Well, there she is, she's watching."
COUNSELOR: I am! (laughter) Somehow like I'm your conscience. Is that how I seem?
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty much. Unfortunately I could forget about you very easily. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:28:17.4) there's a little drawer you can put me in. Close it up and forget it. 
CLIENT: That's not a bad thought though; just to...I think it would be possible, maybe at any given point, you know the major things I did this weekend. I changed my style of dress, my appearance, my behavior with this girl, I changed everything. But I think that in going just generally through day to day existence, that there wouldn't be as many drastic things that I'd have to do...to, that I would have to not do to be honest with you, to not put you in the drawer. Well, that's basically how I do things. 
In training or in studying any given thing...you...my thoughts about that type of thing are that it's either all or nothing and it's very easy to be all because at any given point you don't think about all. That is to say when you're in training for something you don't think God, you've got to train for two whole months. You just think well I have to train today, it's Wednesday. Or that you've got to study from now until the exam, well you've just got to...well today I have to study five hours. You just study five hours. Nothing new, it's just that's the easiest way to look at things I've found. I mean it's a cinch, it really is. 
Well now, all I have to do is apply that same principle to you, right? 0:30:01.5
COUNSELOR: Which is; what has the same principle? 
CLIENT: Well, if I can get one step past the door today and remember to not put you in the drawer and think, "how am I behaving now, is this really honest?" I'm fine. Certainly if I've got one step, there's no way in the world I can't take two steps. And that's the whole thing, I'll be coming back in two weeks and here I'll be all set. 
COUNSELOR: By putting it into little time bits you think well I only have to be honest for the next hour instead of thinking I have to be honest for the rest of my life.
CLIENT: Yeah, not necessarily doing it (inaudible at 0:30:36.6) but doing it by actions. You know, is this action honest? 
Of course there will be times when it will no longer be taking one step. It will be like if my parents were to come into town and I...well there are some major lies that exist between my parents and myself. That would be really hard to do...of course I could just avoid seeing them. I don't think that's usual though. I think some of the most honest people in the world just aren't where their parents are at. (inaudible at 0:31:13.6)
COUNSELOR: So that bothers you much less than other kinds of... 
CLIENT: I don't see enough of them anyhow, so it doesn't really bother me. I think I could do that. Now, had I gone with that procedure this weekend, number one I wouldn't have gotten any money from the city of New York...
COUNSELOR: Would you be sorry now? 0:31:40.9
CLIENT: Not right now I wouldn't, no. Not talking to you I wouldn't be sorry at all. I think by the time I got to the third step outside the door I'd be sorry though. 
COUNSELOR: So I guess that's part of what makes it hard to change is that you really want the benefit you can get by conning people. You really want that money. 
CLIENT: Well...let me think. 
No I don't...it wasn't so much that I got the money but the fact that I was able to get the money. While it's not like money cash, it's money for swimming. It's a fact that I conned them into doing something for me. 
COUNSELOR: It's the fact that you were able to snow them.
CLIENT: Yeah, whether it was...you know...
COUNSELOR: That made you feel like pleased with yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, that self, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Pleased with your abilities.
CLIENT: Well, yeah. Well, let's skip that. Had I...well alright. I could've done that. Probably. But there was no hesitation in my mind at all. When I decided what I had to do. I hadn't worn that suit in three years. A brown suit...with a white shirt! Wow! Amazing! And wing-tipped shoes. It was just unbelievable. That's like the old standard clich� of what the business man looks like. 0:33:28.1
 Well anyhow, I could've...I think I probably could have been (inaudible at 0:33:33.5). Had it been a Wednesday, I might have behaved alright. You know? Had it been Wednesday. It was just too foul (ph)...it was horrible because it was Friday. (inaudible at 0:33:46.5) it was Saturday. It was just the wrong time because well, Saturday is halfway between visits. It was not late enough to worry about this Wednesday and it was a couple of days past last Wednesday. 
COUNSELOR: It's like feeling that coming here say every week, gets you back on some track and then during the week you slip off of it. 0:34:11.3
CLIENT: Yeah. Although...yeah, that's pretty much it. There were times though when I would stay on track for a week. I was coming two times a week too at that time. Those were more volatile days. Self wise. Figuring things out (inaudible at 0:34:34.0) settling down.
COUNSELOR: But that...I guess...go ahead.
CLIENT: Well, the thing going on...had I not behaved that well with the mayor then I would have gone to...back home and might have behaved...I certainly would have behaved differently. 0:34:57.0
COUNSELOR: Well let me ask you this; If you had not seen the mayor and your hair had not been cut that day on purpose, what would have happened when you went?
CLIENT: Alright, well you know first of all, I would have had a hell of a lot of skeptical little glances around before I talked. 
COUNSELOR: But you wouldn't have cut your hair for that?
CLIENT: Oh no, no indeed. No. As a matter of fact I was looking forward to going back there and...I think it's a good point you brought this up. Here's what I had in the back of my head, although I didn't really say "alright, here's number one that's going to happen, then number two..." This is what I think now; here talking to you, is what was in my head. I kind of had the idea that I would go back there and look quite a bit different than they had anticipated. And the thing before anybody had introduced me or anything to talk to the kiddies they would have been very skeptical about my being there. 0:36:08.5
Well, frankly I can say this now even not the person outside the door but myself that I do speak quite well. I mean I've had a lot of training in public speaking. And the kiddies loved it. They really did. Now, with that image of the kiddies having loved it. I was hoping that maybe someone would think, the kiddies would think; Well, all these weirdos that are floating around the halls of the school, maybe they've got things right after all. And they're where it's at. And maybe a few people would have thought...ah. Well see I get the idea that everyone back there is as goofed up about things as I was by my parents...by their parents as I was by my parents. And I'm just hoping that now you know to get away from them and go to college, that they'll get out of that. 
COUNSELOR: That you'll be able to influence them. Away from...
CLIENT: Yeah. It is, it was. And I don't think that's bad,
COUNSELOR: You don't think it's bad what you planned you mean? What you hoped?
CLIENT: No, I don't think that's bad. I was hoping...I think that what I was fostering was a little bit of dependence. But I went back there being...fitting right back into their stereotype about what the successful high school graduate does. 0:37:33.2
COUNSELOR: You were just the picture they wanted.
CLIENT: Yeah, the...you know...so that's...and the third thing that would have happened had I behaved honestly, like I don't know if I could have, I cannot behave on a one to one relationship with a person I don't think, with new person honestly, very easily. 
COUNSELOR: Because that's very hard with just one person? 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's kind of funny the minute I get up you know like past oh 500 people I'm great. It's just as long as there's no one to one stuff. 0:38:21.9
COUNSELOR: What's the difference there?
CLIENT: I'm protected pretty much. When it gets up to bigger numbers. 
COUNSELOR: Protected?
CLIENT: No one's going to get inside me. There's no way there's going to be any personal interaction. 
COUNSELOR: Oh I see, I see.
CLIENT: No probing at all. There can be no probing, of course. I mean...
COUNSELOR: You can keep it at a distance. 
CLIENT: Right, anywhere from 10 people up. In your actions, there's no way in the world anyone's going to get (inaudible at 0:38:53.1) if you're careful, deeply inside you. 
COUNSELOR: Where as with just a few people there's a real danger...somebody's going to push you around (inaudible at 0:39:02.8).
CLIENT: So, then when I got back here...well...yeah, it's sad but true and that seems to be the case. 
COUNSELOR: It's easier with the groups you (inaudible at 0:39:02.8) so about. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm much better with groups of people. 
COUNSELOR: Your much more able to be yourself because I guess (inaudible/crosstalk at 0:39:38.3).
CLIENT: That's not myself, that's the point. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. 
CLIENT: I don't think...
COUNSELOR: So, you're much better at...what? 0:39:47.4
CLIENT: Well, you see, when you're with one person you have to be careful to react...let's say more on the standard of the other person, ok? Outside of the norm. When you're with one person you have to be careful to react to things as he wants you to react to them. And it's quite hard, because you have to feel out at any given point, how he's feeling, and how he's reacting in order for you to behave in a way conducive with his reaction. 
Now, on the other hand, when you're with a lot of people it's much easier to catch the mood of the group, to homogenize it and the mood of the group is not nearly as volatile and changeable as that of a person. The mood of a group doesn't change as quickly, as easily, and it's pretty much well defined. So that at any given point I might be not meeting up to some person's expectation in the group. But it's very easy to see how a group feels about something and behave that way. And though you might lose a few people from the group behaving that way. You're doing better on the whole. 0:41:04.6
COUNSELOR: So it's much easier to impress...and get the right impression across to them. 
CLIENT: I really feel like Dick Nixon. That he seems to be that kind of person. That can just...which is disgusting because if there's nothing I revile... he seems to be the type, that type to me and that's the type that I just don't want to be? The type that will just take...of course he doesn't know it...and maybe that's on scale. It just takes, what is it, 28 million people and tries to see what 51 percent of them will want...will feel like. And he behaves that way and I do the same thing only...(inaudible/crosstalk at 0:41:48.3)
COUNSELOR: And there's that guy outside the door that does this. It's really...it's like although that disgusts you; well I guess you were saying there's two sides to it. It disgusts you and yet it appeals to you. 
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:42:03.8)Yeah, maybe we better leave it as two people and that disgusts me, the person you're talking to but that person out there doesn't know (inaudible at 0:42:06.6) very well...
COUNSELOR: How does he feel about it?
CLIENT: Well, if I completely divorce myself from that person...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, do that.
CLIENT: ...it's a way to do things. It's a way to achieve recognition. And it's a way to...yeah, to get somewhere. It's clear. 
COUNSELOR: And what do you want to do to get somewhere? 0:42:32.0
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean...if you've got a million people that are just...that you've projected a certain image to and that image you've projected is pleasing to them well it can't hurt you. I mean, that person someday is going to be is some position to do you a favor. 
COUNSELOR: So it's like being smart.
CLIENT: Sure. Sure.
COUNSELOR: And do you feel like proud of being able to do that?
CLIENT: Does he feel proud...
COUNSELOR: No
CLIENT: Sure, sure. 
Yeah, you see now if you'd never existed or had I never had that period when I was introspective for a while and all alone...yeah (inaudible at 0:43:23.9). It's a shame that Dick Nixon didn't go to NYU (inaudible at 0:43:31.7). Of course then I don't know (inaudible at 0:43:36.6) of. I don't know how much better off we would be.
Yeah, I don't know though, it's a big (inaudible/loud noise at 0:43:49.9) I can't fight it, it's really hard. 
COUNSELOR: You mean you can't win with him?
CLIENT: I can try. 
COUNSELOR: But it seems like he's stronger than you? 
CLIENT: It's not so much that he's stronger; I have this lofty thing about myself. That anything I set out to do, I can do. If I set out to be honest I could do it. Either me that's talking to you know or that person could do it very easily. I think. I mean all these ridiculous goals that I have. 
COUNSELOR: You mean you have a belief that you can do them.
CLIENT: Yeah. You see the point is other people would say, "alright it's impossible for somebody to look at somebody and say it's certainly maybe impossible for some person to do something on the initial try." But you see everyone can...I think that most anyone could do most anything. 0:44:55.9
COUNSELOR: ...a real belief that you can do this, or do anything. Really if you put your mind to it, try hard and work.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, well that's not so much me that's just other people not realizing what they have to do to do something. I mean I'm not saying now that I'm any great shakes, it's (inaudible at 0:45:25.0)
COUNSELOR: It's like everybody could do...(inaudible/crosstalk at 0:45:28.7)
CLIENT: Sure. 
COUNSELOR: If they realize it. And I guess you were saying that like, I could be honest too. 
CLIENT: Yeah, what should be the supreme, the pinnacle, someone not...someone...well like a cripple climbing Mount Everest. (inaudible at 0:45:45.5) or something like that. 
COUNSELOR: You could be honest. That would really be an achievement. 
CLIENT: Technically it's possible. 
COUNSELOR: But you're feeling very, very far from that. 
CLIENT: There was another point I was going to make (inaudible at 0:46:02.3). Yeah, I might as well...that, that's...another way to look at it...I might as well just decide that this person and that person are just going to set that as a goal. 0:46:23.9
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like this person is ready to, but I'm not sure that person isn't ready to.
CLIENT: I've been ready to for a long time. 
COUNSELOR: But how does he feel about that? How would he feel if you said to him (inaudible at 0:46:36.6)?
CLIENT: the point is he would have to blow everything else, you see. All lot of other stuff would have to go out the window. 
COUNSELOR: And how does he feel about that if you (inaudible at 0:46:44.7)?
CLIENT: It's going to be a fight! I can see it in the offing. Yeah, he doesn't like that at all.
COUNSELOR: What does he say?
CLIENT: Well, let's see. He says, "out of sight, out of mind." You know, that there's no way in the world that I can put you in a drawer very easily. At any given point it's going to be very, very easy to forget what goes on here. Yeah. I see a tremendous battle. It would take a tremendous presence of mind for me to win. I mean I would have to be thinking all the time about how I'm acting. I mean really thinking about it. 0:47:46.9
The other alternative is to... the things that I've... well...of course that's a stalemate...is to not interact. Which has been an alternative at times in the not too distant past.
COUNSELOR: But you'd really have to be in command of the situation all time (inaudible at 0:48:08.2). Or all he has to do is what? Put me in the drawer.
CLIENT: Yeah, all he has to do is get too busy with whatever is going on around. 
COUNSELOR: Get too busy to think about him, to think about you.
CLIENT: Or too busy or too...or simply it becomes too hard to do. To be honest. Which is...could easily be the case with parents or something like that. 
COUNSELOR: You'd say, "Well, this is much easier. It's the easy way out.". 
CLIENT: Yeah, it'd be an interesting fight. The point is...there's another point though that...the fight will take on completely new dimensions, in June; you know when the test is over. I mean it will really become a battleground; it's sort of like small skirmishes now. (inaudible at 0:49:18.1) 
I hope I haven't drawn (ph?) on you too much into my analogy bag. But I have, everything I... 0:49:28.1
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what you mean.
CLIENT: Well, I was talking in analogies. I've been trying to avoid it as much as possible. 
COUNSELOR: Why...
CLIENT: Why? Because it's...I think it gets pretty old hatish. I mean when I used to write papers in school, everyone would be an analogy. And they worked, on occasion. But they get very...old, very easily. 
COUNSELOR: Are you going to get bored by them or is it me that's going to get bored?
CLIENT: Well I just hope that...why they're handy though aren't they? There are times when it's easier to talk in analogies than it is to...use the right words. The words that mean what you're talking about. Because an analogy...well they mean the same thing but...well no...I just don't know if everyone else thinks in analogy as much as I do. 
COUNSELOR: ...(inaudible at 0:50:22.0) what...what...
CLIENT: Well, I'm just avoiding them because I don't want to...well you probably...see you probably have the words that go with everything, just because you've done so much work in the field. But I just don't have the words.
COUNSELOR: And so if you use analogies... 0:50:43.0
CLIENT: Well, I hope I'm not confusing you. I don't know. I'm not confusing, that's not the right word.
COUNSELOR: Is that part of it?
CLIENT: Oh it doesn't...what does it matter? What...so I use analogies. That's no big deal. All right, I'll use this analogy. Yeah, basically what happened was I realized I was using them so much that it became...in my speech and writing it just became, you know, that was me. So...which is sort of a crutch, is what it is. And I don't like to fall back on a crutch. And you know one should be able to express one's self without having to.
COUNSELOR: Is it that you want more variety when you express yourself?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if it's variety as much as it is...uh...yeah pretty...yeah variety. A person should not use the same method to express one's self. But you just can't express yourself correctly if you use the same thing all the time. 0:51:42.7
COUNSELOR: It's limiting?
CLIENT: Yeah. Just like...well anything would be limiting that you use too much of. There clearly is a case where an analogy is going to break down. Every analogy is going to break down somewhere. 
COUNSELOR: And if that's all you use, you just depend on it to much.
CLIENT: Right. But I don't think that's a major issue... (inaudible at 0:52:03.4) has much to do with myself other than it's just a little quirk of the way I talk. I think.
Yeah, sometimes you use it, spend so much time constructing an analogy that you lose sight of what you're constructing it for, and then once you've decided, wow, what a great analogy, you analyze according to it and the analysis works with your parallels but it doesn't work accurately in real life and (inaudible at 0:52:29.9)...
COUNSELOR: Give it some kind of context, is what you're really taking about.
CLIENT: Yeah...I'll have to admit I...(inaudible at 0:52:43.7)...'cause the last couple of times I've really felt bad. I won't put you out of sight, out of mind though. I'll keep... 
COUNSELOR: Felt bad in what way? Like today, how did you feel? Are you feeling bad about it now?
CLIENT: Well I...the point is...that there have been times as I have said before, when I come in here really fired up, you know, and felt good about things, and other times...I mean today wasn't a joyful session; I mean there isn't a lot of happy stuff to say about myself...(inaudible at 0:53:13.4) I think I've discovered that made me pleased (ph?) and the last couple of times have been that way, bad ways. And...
COUNSELOR: Where all that you've had to say about yourself you were somewhat unpleasant.
CLIENT: Right. And I know that between now and...Well I guess it is three weeks, three weeks from now when I come back that...that I'm not going to have much time to do anything but sit in my room and study and then go take the test. So that there's nothing of any real consequence going to happen...that's going to change...
COUNSELOR: So nothing that's really going to disgust you, or discourage you, you mean. Is that what you mean?
CLIENT: No I don't think so. And nor is there going to be anything very encouraging. However...then when it's all over with I'll probably see more people in that next week than I've seen you know in the last six months. And it'll be interesting to see what happens. Good old honest me. I hope anyway. 0:54:18.6
COUNSELOR: Will I be able to live up to what I want to do? There's a real sense that things will really change after...
CLIENT: Oh there's no question in the world that...this is the biggest juncture in my life so far! The biggest turning point. If I pass it, it's all down hill. And if I don't pass it things are really going to get goofed up. Well, not necessarily goofed up, but changed around. New directions. 
That's a good point. And as I told you it's the first time I've ever really faced...oh, the funny thing is too that I thought I would mention; my parents...I just...why?. Because I went home and I saw them. They have noticed too, that it's the first time that I've faced failure. And once or twice they...they have no idea how I'm going to do. They don't know whether I'm you know, going to be the very best one there or that there's no hope and there's no way in the world I'm going to pass this thing. And of course the truth lies somewhere in the middle. Right now I would say my chances are a little bit below even. But you know, things might happen (inaudible at 0:55:40.2). However, at any rate they were making rationalizations at times. To show that, well, even if he doesn't make it he's still, you know, a success. (inaudible at 0:55:53.8) When I think...when I saw them doing that I said, "Well, if that's you know, exactly the way I've behaved all my life. And I'm just behaving that way because that's the way you've behaved about me." I mean how's a person going (inaudible at 0:56:05.0) himself with the way his parents (inaudible at 0:56:06.5) if he's at all you know, close to his parents (inaudible). And indeed I am, or was.
COUNSELOR: So it's like you need some explanation (ph) or understanding of how you've behaved and also said, "well how could I possibly act different." (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I mean we went through that what, three sessions ago, or something? Why I handle it the way I do. And in the end it's pretty clear. There's no question. They just decided they just did it that way and that's the way I did it. 
COUNSELOR: You picked it up?
CLIENT: Yeah, well there's nothing else to pick up. (inaudible at 0:56:35.3)
COUNSELOR: I guess you sound a little unhappy that there was nothing else to pick up?
CLIENT: Yeah...it was a pretty unimaginative... (inaudible at 0:56:50.0) to raise kids. 
COUNSELOR: Pretty non-thinking...
CLIENT: Well...yeah...(inaudible at 0:56:58.2) a good thing (inaudible-background noise) I just thought about it...for years and years and years the most important thing for me was being a great dad, being a (inaudible at 0:57:06.1) it hasn't yet. And now that's really hidden so far back in my mind I could care less, I really could care less. I don't know whether it's...the idea that...I'm really disgusted with the world (inaudible at 0:57:22.6). I don't think it's that so much as it's the fact that back then when I thought that way I thought my parents had done a great job. And now I realize what a poor job they've done and I'm here doing the same thing. 0:57:39.9
COUNSELOR: You're afraid you'll just repeat that. Or worse.
END TRANSCRIPT
