Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: The move yesterday was loading those into the car and putting them into the basement. I woke up and my legs were killing me, pretty sore and stiff. And I was just — for most of them I took two at a time, which was heavier than I should have been carrying, but the last couple I took one at a time. So I get to spend the rest of the day packing up shit and moving it upstairs. It just seems like everything in my life is broken. You know, my car, the speakers in my car, I can't find my phone, now I can't listen to NPR or sports talk radio on the phone without it cutting in and out.
[01:00.8]
I don't enjoy walking the dog. He just always does something. I'm trying to carry coffee because I left my coffee, my travel mug, in the car. Just everything is — nothing is smooth and goes right the first time and just works. And I get into this big fight with Jess over money, and the very next day I spend $2,000 I don't have. And now it's going to put me — and I told my landlord that I put $1,500 in his mailbox. I just spent that on a new office. I went and looked back — I was about to write an e-mail because she says, you know, "in the last year you haven't given anything for the kids," which is true.
[02:11.8]
But in 2010, I made over two times as much money as she did. In 2009, I made over two times as much money as she did. Either 2008 or 2007, I think it was 2008, it was about equal. In 2007, I made more money than her. I didn't go back to 2006. But, you know, all these years of working hard and doing all these closings are for naught, completely no credit whatsoever for them. And her collection money is going to hit tomorrow, and I'm going to go through and tell her what her expenses are and how much I need out of her portion of that money.
[03:07.1]
And I don't know what to tell her, you know, because this all came up because I said "are you going to put $1,200 towards the tax levy?" And at first she's like that I took $1,100 last month. And it's like "no, your collection money was $1200 and your expenses were $1,100. Those are your rent, the telephone, malpractice insurance, health insurance. These are things you are responsible for."
THERAPIST: You're administering them for her.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it turns out, she got $200 back and then she paid — you know, I ended up paying her rent one month because the month before she gave me like $600 for the health insurance. And now I don't know what to do. I'm in such a fucking bind, you know.
[04:19.8]
Probably the only good thing that has come out of this is I owed about $4,000 to my landlord and Tracy, I guess, maybe they were probably going through the — she's got to put on your Chapter 7 filings who owes you money. And I guess she talked him out of putting it on there, I don't know. But she said that I'm not going to have to come up with that money, so I'm assuming that's what happened. Even if they come after me for the $4,000, I'll tell them to fuck themselves because I don't have it. I'm getting calls from my student loan companies, I haven't been paying that. I haven't paid the car loan or the car insurance from last month.
[05:08.7]
Just, you know, I'm bleeding and she's concerned about me not paying any money for the kids, you know. That's she's going to get $2,500 — she has a client who has now bounced checks to us twice. She's in court, I've got to take the morning and watch the kids. She's in court for someone and I'm like "Have they given us any money? Have they given us a retainer?" And she won't tell me anything about it. I don't recognize the guy's name. I know the money coming in and the money going out, and this guy hasn't given us a cent unless he paid her in cash, which she still should at least say "hey, this guy gave me money in cash."
[06:03.2]
THERAPIST: Right, for accounting purposes.
CLIENT: Well, no, I mean when we get cash, we have an account for it. The guy who has bounced two checks has given her $300 cash, and the IRS will never know about that money. But I feel she's all up my ass about the money, asking for the profit and loss statements, and she's on me again about have I done the stuff for the IRS. And now it's like, that's what I was going to do yesterday and today, you know. I had one title to do, one file to open, and ironically send notice of a status report to the court for a case that I represent the plaintiffs and one of the defendants is in bankruptcy. It's been going on since 2008, so I had to do that.
[07:05.7]
I get a notice on one of my cases that the defendant is in bankruptcy, but I already knew that. But it's just like bankruptcy is flying all around my head. No one knows when the doors are going to be locked. They keep saying today, or he's going to wait to file until the last moment today, so I think maybe we have until tomorrow. But, you know, it's like I don't have a desk. I don't have shit. I don't have anything. Mike has given me a table and says I can take it. He may have an extra desk for me to take which he's not really supposed to do. But I don't have money to go to the furniture company and buy a new desk or rent a desk or do any of this. I just don't have the money, you know.
[07:58.4]
I don't have money to go to Home Depot to get blinds for the office. They charge 100-and-something dollars to do it. I've entered a money pit. I've got to pay $134 to get phones up and running and Internet. Money is flying out the door that I don't have. It comes in $175 at a time and it goes out $400 at a time. I can't keep calling my dad and begging for money. I just can't keep doing it. I sold some tickets. I got $270 from it so I'll have that in like a week. A lawyer I have had take over one of my cases says that it's been settled and he has a little gift for me, so he might be giving me some of his fee. So who knows what that is.
[09:16.4]
But now I've got to go out Wednesday, or tomorrow night, and go drinking with him and probably spend everything he's going to give me. I didn't go to Handball last night. Jess's like "oh you should go to Handball, it will do you some good." It's like, I can't fucking move. I'm mentally taxed, I'm physically taxed, you know. I was lying in bed at like 9:00 just —
THERAPIST: I'm sure it was an incredibly stressful day, and it was an incredibly physically taxing day.
CLIENT: Only time is going to tell whether I made the right decision by renting this office space. I'm locked in for six months.
THERAPIST: Well, you certainly aren't going to be doing any worse than you were downstairs, right?
[10:04.0]
CLIENT: No, but, you know, it's not like a lot of people come to the office. It's up on the fourth floor, and I would say it's a little more difficult to find than my office. Basically I've decided I've got to put E&G; on my back and get people to bring in visitors. I sent an e-mail out last night, and I'm just going to start badgering the group for visitors. Our flooring guy, I probably told you, have his employee come and have her be secretary/treasurer, but they're looking at other chapters. So people are leaving because of the size of the group, so it's like a vicious cycle.
[11:07.2]
We had four or five financial planners who came in, only two of them put applications in. We've got two more coming next week. The one guy I really think we should join didn't put in an application. I don't know. Then spend last night — I wanted to do that during the day — but spent last night sending everybody e-mails, inviting new people.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying you shouldn't, but I'm wondering how come you do keep holding tight to these things like E&G; and the (inaudible at 11:45.6).
CLIENT: It's my only source of business.
THERAPIST: I see. You feel like even if it isn't what it was and isn't much, it's what you've got and it's all you've got.
CLIENT: Yeah. The mortgage company that is sending me business is through E&amp;G.; They're in the Center. These cases that I get of people just calling me up randomly from the Internet or whatever, because of the Pembroke office. I get people from Plymouth too but it's more the office in Pembroke.
[12:17.8]
And I just spent so much time there and I've put forth so many — it's like, I'm on the community advisory board of the bank. In Plymouth I'm starting from scratch where I've at least got something to build on in Pembroke. And still on Monday night I'm going to this — they're calling it a "friend raiser" — for the Main Streets. They're trying to see if, I wouldn't say woo me, but they're checking me out to see if they want to put me on their board which would be a nice step for Plymouth, because I really don't have anything in Plymouth. That's why I kind of decided to volunteer for soccer was to make these kinds of connections, connections more like with one of the dads from soccer. They need lawyers. Of course, it's being held at the bar that I puked all over the bar.
[13:34.7]
THERAPIST: That was a while ago.
CLIENT: I don't think the owner really knows about that, I don't know, but he's on the board. It's like I can't even get excited about, you know, I've got these new clients referred from the life insurance guy who leads E&amp;G.; They get their inspection, their lenders are going to use me to do the closing. They do the inspection, they find mold, and it's in foreclosure and the guy is just being really impatient about it and wants his money back because they didn't respond the way he thinks they should have responded. They responded the way a bank responds and just changed some dates. I can't communicate with the other attorney. She was out of the office until today, and I'm in the middle of fucking moving shit all over the place and I don't know what's going on.
[14:35.6]
I've got the listing agent calling me, and I've got the buyer's broker calling me, and I don't have the effort to put into this to keep this deal together. So it's like a deal I thought I had in May, I'm not going to have. It's like every deal is just slowly starting to fall apart. There's something wrong with every one of them. Now I've got a refinance coming soon because they asked me for the payoff, which is usually a sign that it's a few weeks down the road. At least maybe in the beginning of May, I might have a deal but I need money now.
THERAPIST: You needed money last week.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I get the e-mail last night from my fucking tenants, asked me if we can be let out of the lease. Oh yeah, sure, just leave.
[15:45.6]
THERAPIST: Is it a condo?
CLIENT: A condo. So I don't even know how to respond to that. They sent me an e-mail a couple of months ago, same e-mail, I just never responded to it. So I'm just going to reply "I do expect that you'll honor the lease that you signed." What else can I say, you know? Come September I've got to find someone who's going to be okay with there being a for sale sign on their unit, having people come in. I mean, we're under an agreement.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was wondering.
CLIENT: But who knows what the fuck is going on with that. I'm so far behind on my rent.
THERAPIST: In Andover?
[16:41.2]
CLIENT: In Andover. When that falls off, I'm just dead. I'm just dead in the water. I made coffee and I brought it in a travel mug. I still went and got a coffee because it's just better coffee and I needed it. I don't even know where to begin today, you know. It's like just box stuff up and move it upstairs. I really don't fucking know what to do. Some of the stuff I should box up and take home. It's just a mess. It's just a fucking mess. I don't have the energy to do it. I just don't have the mental stability to do it. My mind is fucking just all over the place.
[17:52.3]
THERAPIST: So what is it that you — you've got a bunch of files and other stuff around the old office that you need to box up and bring it upstairs?
CLIENT: Yeah, files and pieces of paper laying everywhere. I've got a stack like when I get papers back from the registry and the file is not right there for me to put it in, I put it in this stack. I've got files from '01 and '02 in cabinets. I've got all of these title examinations that I've done in piles. So a lot of it is just — new continuing legal education books, and I've got all this shit on my desk which God knows what the fuck that is.
[18:35.9]
And Jess has a brief due this week, so she's zero help. She can't even drive up and — there's just zero help. I have a feeling she's going to be zero help on the money side of it.
THERAPIST: So your day today is packing boxes and moving them.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm trying to maybe e-mail a few people and let them know my new address, like the people that would send me money, my one client. That's another thing. It's like I did an address forward but I'd hate for a client to send something in and they get returned to sender. My phones may be down for a couple of days before they can move the phones upstairs.
[19:52.1]
THERAPIST: Well, you can only do what you can do, right? You can go and pack some boxes and move them upstairs, send a few e-mails, and that's all you get done today, you know? I know you feel avalanched with other stress and money you don't have, but if that's all you can do —
CLIENT: But it's like I'm going through all of this effort and what the fuck am I doing this for? This could have been a moment where I just could've just fucking cut it loose and said fuck it, the practice is done, it's closed and just take my lumps.
[20:52.4]
I'm just killing myself to fucking build something that's been broken, and it's been broken so hard that I can't build — everything is — (pause). I'm completely, utterly alone in all of this. Jess — in the middle, I'm sitting there, the fucking leasing guy is right there and I'm on the phone talking to her and she's like "I know this isn't the time, but I'm going to be re-branding my business and maybe you should re-brand." I used to be Real Estate Law which is a bad idea for me to do now because I do estate planning. Plus I've got this name that people recognize and it's been in the Center. I'm not going to get rid of it.
[21:55.7]
THERAPIST: Then don't.
CLIENT: When you start something off "I know this isn't the time to talk about it," then don't even fucking bring it up. (pause) It hurts to lift the coffee.
THERAPIST: You think that this is too badly broken to fix?
CLIENT: Nothing is getting better. It seemed for a moment like these deals were coming in for May, but one by one they're all falling apart. I've got like two refis in the hopper. I don't know what else to do. I see a new client, they don't want to give me the $1000 retainer.
[23:06.4]
I probably should follow up with them and ask what they want. I've got to somehow pester people and E&G; to bring in visitors, you know. I told them, I said you've got to do this for your own business, this affects your bottom line. (pause) We're down to the people who care and are motivated. All of the schleps are pretty much gone, so it's like you've got to focus on trying to help build this thing up. I don't know people — the people I run into are in other places. Why the fuck would they want to drive here every Tuesday?
[24:10.1]
Which reminds me, I keep meaning to e-mail my Aflac contact and see if he has anybody who wants to, you know, up in their area. He's in a group (inaudible at 24:30.3), it's like E&G;'s competition. (pause) At least before, as annoying as Tracy and Mike can be like "Oh, you're early. Oh, you're all dressed up today" kind of bullshit, at least there was someone to talk to. There were other people in the office, employers and bankers and people just to chit-chat with and that's gone. I'm in an office by myself. Who knows if I'll connect with my neighbors or not. I don't even know who they are.
[25:17.9]
Walking around there was nobody in those offices. There are businesses there, but none of them really seemed open. (pause) I don't know. I need a copy machine, a fucking copy machine. I can sort of use my fax machine to make some copies, but I can't do a closing package. I've got to go to fucking Staples or FedEx. I've been downstairs many times doing them, you know. I don't know where to begin with changing the websites and Facebook and Twitter and all these things that have my address on it. I've got to change the suite number.
[26:26.3]
I tried to start doing that last night. Facebook wouldn't even let me change it. It's overwhelming, really. And that's the thing. It's like it's work putting in all this fucking effort. It's all I'm doing, going through the motions really at this point.
THERAPIST: I'm sure that's a question you're asking every day.
CLIENT: (Pause) The highlight of my day is coming home when the dog hasn't pissed in the cage. That was the highlight of my day yesterday. This morning walking him, it's just like I just can't get him to — I open the door and he's always going to the wrong spot, and I've got to lift him up and throw him in the cage. He won't go in the cage by himself.
[27:42.0]
And he can't stand up fully inside the cage (inaudible at 27:46.5), not like he would need that, but basically it's a small cage. The bigger cage was another $100. That's like the one thing I need to do that might put $2,400 back in my pocket. I just can't fucking motivate myself or find the time to do.
THERAPIST: Sorry, what is that?
CLIENT: You know, fill out the IRS forms. If they see there's a hardship they'll give you the money back.
THERAPIST: It's hard to get yourself to do it.
CLIENT: I've got this paperwork that the bank fucking wants me to get to them. I told Jess I need to get leases from the people upstairs with my name on it, and she's like "I haven't found the old leases." It's like "I had that, I had the old fucking lease. I've sent them that. I need a lease with my name on it. You're bothering me every fucking day, 'have you called the bank, have you called the bank, have you called the bank.'" And now I've talked to the bank and the bank has asked for something, and she won't fucking get it for me. It's ridiculous. I've got so many — I'm juggling so many different problems, you know. The only —
[29:28.4]
THERAPIST: And you really don't have the resources for any of them.
CLIENT: The only positive thing is doing these title examinations which take me several, two or three hours for 175 bucks, sometimes even longer. I'm doing one now. I'm halfway through it with a stack of paper that thick. I have to overnight it to him because it's too much to scan. I can't e-mail a file that large. And that was what I was supposed to be doing yesterday. It's new construction, so I think there's no immediate need for it. They gave it to me a couple of weeks ago. (pause)
[30:29.3]
I want to get a fucking haircut. I can't get the wind to stop fucking blowing my hair around. It's like a fucking rat's nest.
THERAPIST: It doesn't look like a rat's nest, Cameron. It doesn't look like a rat's nest. That one I can reassure you of.
CLIENT: I just want to go and get fucking all of it cut off short so I don't have to worry about it. (pause)
[31:59.7]
THERAPIST: You know, you need something that's kind of like AA but isn't. Not like AA because I don't think you're an alcoholic, but something that helps keep you focused on what's in front of you and helps you know you're doing what you need to do. Doing the best you can and not in control of the outcome, and not in control of everything that is getting thrown at you. But able to kind of do the things that are within your power to do, and that provides a sense of not being so alone in what you're struggling with which is totally overwhelming.
[32:58.8]
CLIENT: You know, before you go any further, this thing does not exist. It's like I keep asking myself should I go back to the old job and it's like, none of these people are working, none of these people —
THERAPIST: Yeah, the only thing I can think of that's like that is Debtors Anonymous which, I mean, your problem isn't the sort of spending that people usually go to Debtors Anonymous for. I mean, it's got that same kind of structure and that same kind of group support and 12 steps and the whole thing. But that's more for people who are living in ways they can't afford to live but have alternatives. Your real problem is that you're not spending wisely, you don't have money to spend on stuff.
[34:17.9]
CLIENT: My practice is a complete utter failure. Once Ray stopped and started focusing on moving and retirement, that's when my business —
THERAPIST: Is that what did it?
CLIENT: Because he was my number one, and you take out the two or three every couple of months that bank sent me, the one or two that Claire would send me, and my guys up North who'd send me two or three every couple of months.
THERAPIST: Right, but that's the thing if you have four decent referral sources and you're getting five or six closings a month. It's a totally different ballgame.
[35:06.2]
CLIENT: I had one closing this month, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you need something like that that's more like for, I don't know, depression, overwhelming stress, something like that. I'm not saying it because I have a particular group in mind. I'm saying it because it seems like something like that would provide some of the tools that I think would help, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know if tools would help me.
THERAPIST: Well, I think, you know —
CLIENT: A money machine or a money tree.
THERAPIST: Right, but absent that, I think you often get, and understandably so, too overwhelmed by everything that's going on to be focused on things you can do. I'm not blaming you, this is what happens. I know you do a lot and you do a lot of what is possible to do, but you're also often telling me things that you can't get to because you're just too stressed and too overwhelmed.
[36:24.3]
Again, like I'm not wagging a finger at you, I'm just — this is how it is. And you're also, as you just said, really alone with all of this. You don't see anybody around who is going through the same thing in the same way, who is struggling every day with all this shit, and having to persevere with it. So these are some of the things I had in mind that a group like that can be helpful for, sort of keeping you focused on okay, you know, what can you affect, what can't you affect.
[37:16.5]
CLIENT: It's like E&amp;G.; I can get up and I can ask to meet any realtor or any mortgage person in the world and someone may know that person and refer me to them. I'll go and have lunch or coffee with them and nothing will come of it, because they want something from me first. I don't have that to give them, and I've tried.
THERAPIST: I know you've mentioned that a few different times to me where whether it was people you've met, I think from various banks, for coffee —
CLIENT: I did that presentation for the guy in the bank, so I'm one of three attorneys he gives the name out to, you know.
THERAPIST: Right. If you had some business to throw around to these people it would come back to you. But you're having to bootstrap this way. (pause)
[38:40.7]
I guess that's the other thing that I think reminds me of AA with all this, is that there are people in it who are capable and talented and who have lived lives and are successful in various ways. But they have really hit trouble and really hit bottom and are trying to pull their lives back together. I think it would be helpful for you to be around other people like that and to see other people struggling, sometimes succeeding and sometimes not in doing that. I take your point, well that's a different group of people. Those are folks who just probably haven't been and don't expect to be — and they're not trying to pull things together in the same way.
[39:44.9]
They don't see — they're not trying to pull things back together in the way that you are. So it's a different story. (pause) Do you see what I'm saying? There's not a recommendation at the end of this. I want to think some more about it. Maybe there's a way that I can translate some of this into one.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, your point is well-taken, but I don't think it's going to help me just to see other people struggling in the way I'm struggling, you know. I need help marketing myself. I need help making my expenses. I can now put up posters all throughout the Center, I can have flyers put out by the elevators, but I have to spend the money to have those posters made. I have to spend money to have those flyers made.
[41:33.6]
I have gotten work in a batch from people who, either because I'm in the Chamber, because I'm in the Center, have hired me.
THERAPIST: So you're saying if somebody gave you whatever it would cost, 100 bucks, to put the flyers up, or 200 bucks, that's something you would be able to do?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I mean, I've got other stuff I've got to put money towards first like eating before I can put money to use for posters which are not cheap. I've got to get a graphic designer — you know, what do you put on the poster? (pause) It's like so fucking — I've been taking extra Klonopin. I took two this morning and I'm still just all fucking — (pause)
[43:23.2]
(Phone ringing) Probably someone is looking for something. A lot of my work is doing stuff that I've already been paid on that I have to finish up. (pause)
THERAPIST: I'm going to be clear. I know that the money is the number one problem. It's not that I fail to see that or I'm not clear about that. It's just not the thing that I am going to probably have any useful advice about. I mean, the anxiety and the sense of being overwhelmed I guess is a way, the stress level — I think that's the important part of this. I'm not saying I think it's as important as the money, but that's the part that I can think about. I wish I did have ideas for the other stuff.
[44:59.1]
CLIENT: I didn't even get to talk about how I grabbed Ian during soccer practice and he told his mom and she started lecturing me about being authoritarian. All that shit to deal with, you know?
THERAPIST: Always something a bit ironic about getting a lecture about being authoritarian.
CLIENT: Yeah, I had to scream out his name once because all the kids are sitting there. I'm like, "Ian. Ian. Ian!", you know, because he's just not paying attention. And even the kids, they run up, they see a soccer ball and they kick it. It's like "you're kicking it away from me."
[45:50.1]
THERAPIST: It sounds like a prescription for chaos, whatever this 15 or 20 six-year-olds and a whole bunch of soccer balls and a big wide open field.
CLIENT: I feel like I want to get in a fight with someone after soccer practice or after the game. I'm so fucking amped up because these fucking kids are driving me up the fucking wall. Handball is starting up and that brings other problems. I'm out of shape. I'm getting older. I just can't throw it back. Nothing is working for me. Nothing. No aspect of my life is working for me. My cable TV doesn't work. I don't even feel right complaining to my landlord because I owe him fucking $5,000.
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now.
CLIENT: I think we have the normal schedule on Friday.
THERAPIST: The normal schedule works for me. Oh yeah, we do actually. I was confused.
CLIENT: Oh boy. It's going to be a fun day.
THERAPIST: Good luck with the move.
CLIENT: Thanks.
END TRANSCRIPT
