Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: That was an easy insurance question.
CLIENT: I know, right.
THERAPIST: Yeah, parody diagnosis or non parody diagnosis and then you have a (inaudible at 00:00:12) diagnosis.
CLIENT: Okay great. So then I will sign up for this one also in July.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. What company?
CLIENT: It's Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
THERAPIST: And it's a PPO?
CLIENT: I think it's an HMO.
THERAPIST: Let's see... I...
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Okay, that's kind of an important distinction. My experience thus far (pause)...
CLIENT: I paid less attention to the type of plans than the specific benefits that they offer.
THERAPIST: Right. My experience so far with HMO's versus PPO's is that their cure for mental health is actually in practice quite different because PPO's don't require authorization and HMO's do or at least that's how it's been. And what that means is - well there's two issues. [00:01:18]
One is that with an HMO I have to keep writing down first sessions every 12 visits which is fine. I don't mind doing that. But they really at best they'll offer us two sessions a week and that with a fair amount of hand waving and fussing. Whereas with a PPO you don't need authorization so you can - I mean I see people for analysis four times a week on a PPO, and I just submit, and they just pay, and that's it.
CLIENT: That's really good to know. I wasn't sure what the difference between them was. I was just looking at the...[00:02:04]
THERAPIST: I know you can't see from that point.
CLIENT: And they're like oh we cover unlimited. I was like great, but I didn't think about the authorization.
THERAPIST: Yeah, well because why would you? So I think the way to put it is sure we'll pay as many as you need or we'll pay as many as are medically necessary relating to what we believe...
CLIENT: But we get to decide whether that's medically necessary.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I'm pretty confident...
CLIENT: There's a lot of different plans. I think I can find one.
THERAPIST: The other issue is I think I'm probably getting off the HMO like I won't be an HMO provider. And most of those don't have out of network benefits. So I guess that's another... I know should know that within the next couple of weeks, but I'm pretty sure I'll be getting off of it.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:02:59).
THERAPIST: Also I got your e-mail about (inaudible at 00:03:02). That's fine. [00:03:04]
CLIENT: Sorry. Yeah, but...
THERAPIST: Don't apologize to me.
CLIENT: Yeah, but... Yeah, so vacation. (Pause) You know it's been a tough couple of days. Not uniformly bad, so that's good, but it's just been very bad times dispersed throughout. So I had a conversation last night and I kind of kept in mind what we've been talking about any saying why can't I just tell people these things. It was very strange. [00:04:07]
And so we were talking about something else, and I was just anxious and couldn't think about what we were talking about, and I just interrupted the conversation. And I was like look James, I'm really scared. I'm really scared about all these things, and it kind of freaked him out a little bit. And it kind of feels like - I think he feels like he's in a place where no matter what he says to me that's the wrong thing to say which is true actually. There is nothing that he can say to me that will not be wrong. And so it was neither of us kind of upset about that. He was like okay you keep talking about ish, and I don't know what that means, and I tried to describe to him what was going on. And he just kept asking me questions like so do you feel despair and hatred of yourself at the same time like are you thinking these things concurrently or are they in cycles? I was like well it's sort of in cycles but mostly concurrently and dah, dah, dah. [00:05:25]
And as I was talking I was already pretty upset, and I got very, very upset and very worked up. And finally I just started yelling at him. I was like shut up. You are... It was one of those like you keep acting like this is going to make sense and it doesn't make sense. And I said I'm angry with you because you are doing what I do all the time; trying to make it make sense, trying to make it make sense and it doesn't make it go away. And you're like yeah I kind of thought that... I would expect to be upset that you're yelling at me, but I'm really not bothered by it which is well I guess is good. I don't know. Like I said it was very strange.
At one point I was like James I am dying. Stop talking. [00:06:42]
THERAPIST: What I imagine matters to you maybe a lot of the times and especially in things like that is how close you feel to him. How much you feel like he's there with you or not. And when he's vivisecting your feelings...
CLIENT: It sort of feels like that is who James is. That is what he does. Like that is what he gives me. And so it's both like he's there and he's not there. He's there but he can't be there. And I was mostly the one talking, but it was in some ways a relief to say I can be angry at James, completely unreasonably, and he'll be okay with that. [00:07:57]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: That was good. But I mean there was no catharsis. I didn't feel better. I just eventually got exhausted and I was like okay I'm going to bed, and went to bed, and still feel like crap.
THERAPIST: I see. I think I may have missed your point. So your point was...
CLIENT: Well there were many points. You got a major one. (Laughter) I'm sorry. (Pause) I don't make much sense most of the time, but I think I'm going to make way less sense today. It's warm in here. Sorry, what were you going to say? I keep interrupting. [00:08:55]
THERAPIST: You don't seem to make any less sense to me.
CLIENT: Okay, thank you.
THERAPIST: I mean... Okay here's a physician statement. I don't think any of us can trust all that well our impressions of what is and isn't going to make a lot of sense to our therapist.
CLIENT: (Laughter) Point taken.
THERAPIST: I think that's probably my experience. You know often... [00:10:13]
CLIENT: I mean that's the hope right? (Laughter)
THERAPIST: I guess I mean it in both ways that sometimes things that make so much sense, or seem to make so much sense like I won't get that, or especially the things that seem incoherent, or sort of all over the place, or off the wall will probably make more sense.
CLIENT: You'll have a picture that you can get from it.
THERAPIST: I guess I could explain it more eloquently and say that feeling those ways, discombobulated, disconnected, incoherent, off the wall, are usually signs of being anxious and at bit kind of defended against whatever's coming up which inevitably makes it harder to think clearly about it. And that's not the same for the other person in the room. [00:11:30]
CLIENT: Great. Okay.
THERAPIST: Whereas things that seem clear and more coherent are like (pause) often kind of a little further away from or more (inaudible at 00:11:52) versions of what's going on in front so it could be harder.
CLIENT: Yeah. The image that I have in my mind is like touch painting or Renaissance paintings, where it is so carefully done that you can't see any of the brush strokes.
THERAPIST: Exactly. That's right. [00:12:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. So the feeling like James is vivisecting my emotions that's definitely part of it. This is something that he needs I think like for him to feel like he understands what is going on with me he needs me to be a little more specific about how I'm talking about it. He kind of said... I was like I'm sorry I'm not being very nice to you. And he was like well I don't think I'm being very nice to you either. Okay. Yes.
THERAPIST: It seems like he could feel very clearly that he wasn't being helpful to you and that he wasn't (pause) - you weren't feeling all that connected to him. [00:13:14]
CLIENT: But I think it's just over the last however long it's been he's just found that (pause) - he's just found that connecting to me is really hard. If he offers me comfort and consolation that doesn't help. Like he's tried all of the things that you would expect to respond to somebody who's in a lot of pain. And I just kind of... Nothing really helps or nothing he has said helps, or he feels like nothing that he has said helps. And I think part of it was also he's trying to make a decision of do I need to call Franco and have him go out and get married right now like is she going to kill herself like he's trying to do that which is not his job. He always tries to do it. [00:14:24]
THERAPIST: Well (pause) I could be wrong, but I guess I don't see why you couldn't tell him what helps which is I think - I mean since the only thing that helps, and I'm not saying that it makes things all better by any means, I do think it probably (pause) would (pause) help keep what's going on between you and he at the moment from making things worse. But I would imagine what makes the difference is he just sits and listens, and asks (pause)... It doesn't really help for you. I don't think he asks like he just sits and listens, and let's you talk, and let's you sit in silence. [00:15:46]
CLIENT: Well that's what he ended up doing. I don't know whether that does help or not though. He's like what does Chad do when you call him? I said well he listens to me and he kind of asks questions about how I'm feeling. And he says wow it sounds like you're feeling really this way, and I say yeah, and that's usually about as far as we get. (Laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:16:21]
CLIENT: And then James said, "I'm really glad I didn't go into therapy". "That seems way too passionate for me."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Which I guess is the problem.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Then he'd have to deal with that.
CLIENT: Well you know Doctor Heitz is much more like active in offering advice. I'm like you could try this, you could try this, you could try this. And he says, "Does that help? And I said, "No." He said, "Oh, okay."
THERAPIST: Yeah like I said I think what makes a difference is how close it feels like the other person is to what's going on with you. And I think (pause) the vivisection and recommendations do the opposite. [00:17:23]
CLIENT: And to be fair when he started saying okay what's going on when this happens I was very calm. And as I got worked up when he kept asking questions then it's just like I'm done. Stop talking. We're done here like that's enough. But yeah I see your point. I see what you're saying, and I think you're right. From my end of it it's kind of been an experiment in saying okay fine be as upset as you can, like be as angry as you can, like tell him that you are angry at him when it is completely not reasonable. Okay, see what happens. I don't know whether to... I don't know. I don't think it made me feel a bit better. [00:18:32]
THERAPIST: Well...
CLIENT: It made it last less long I guess. I went to sleep faster.
THERAPIST: I could imagine it (pause) might help with the boomerang effect like... I don't even know if this happens but I sort of speculate that at times when you get off the phone with him after being upset you can feel really bad for what you put him through. I could imagine actually that you get pissed off at him. That might be less likely to happen, but I...
CLIENT: Well I sort of feel bad for being unreasonably angry at him. But then I'm still pissed off at him and stop being angry. [00:19:27]
THERAPIST: Did you have a really self critical (inaudible at 00:19:34) reaction after getting off the phone?
CLIENT: No not really actually. No I just went to sleep. Yeah. Perfect. (Laughter) Yeah. (Pause) Right before that was actually much worse in that there were five people in this two bedroom apartment and Kirsten has gone to sleep because she has (inaudible at 00:20:22) the next day. And Heather Kate and Violet are asleep. The only way that Heather Kate could get Violet to go to sleep was she took my comforter off the bed and laid down on the floor with Violet. And I didn't realize this because I was watching a movie and she just went to bed when Violet went to bed. And it had been a pretty good day. [00:20:44]
We went out to dinner for my birthday, and I got to (inaudible at 00:20:49) sangria because she's a super lightweight, and played peek-a-boo with Violet, and she got really excited about the napkin. That was really fun. But when I went to bed I just couldn't stop crying and I couldn't get to sleep. I was exhausted, and I had taken sleeping pills, and I still couldn't get to sleep for an hour and a half which I need to talk to Doctor (inaudible at 00:21:16) about that because that is not good. That's not supposed to happen. [00:21:20]
And I couldn't stop crying and I was in the room with my friends and Violet. I was the only person on the bed but I had to cry very quietly which I'm good at doing, but it's just really bad. And I wanted to call you, but I couldn't go into the kitchen and call you because I would've woken everybody up; like everybody in the apartment. It was just that was not good. If it had been two hours I might've put some clothes on and gone outside and called you, and I thought about doing that. But then it's just like being a mess in public. I can't get out. I get the feeling that this is better. [00:22:20]
It's very comforting to me that you're not upset when I'm upset like that you laugh at this. I actually find that very comforting because then I laugh at it too. (Pause) I cut myself again yesterday. I don't know whether that is a fight that I want to pick up again or not. Like when I'm cutting myself I just don't know that I have the mental energy for it. I kind of think well compared with long term damage to my body both alcoholism and an eating disorder would be worse and those seem where I would be headed if I weren't cutting myself. (Laughing) [00:23:39]
James has been like in terms of short term fixes why don't you just drink a lot and I see his point. That is something that helps sometimes but it doesn't help consistently. It makes my actions more erratic and my real fear - among other things we've talked about - what am I afraid of, of being as upset as I can like why is that scary for me. And frankly I'm just scared... I'm not scared that I'm going to succeed in killing myself, but I'm scared that I'm going to lose that impulse control and I'm going to try to kill myself and do some serious damage to myself. [00:24:36]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I don't want to do that. That seems like the worst of all possible worlds frankly. But it is an increasingly real possibility.
THERAPIST: You mean in general?
CLIENT: It's like when I'm upset that's where my mind goes.
THERAPIST: You mean like you're thinking of it more often now?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm more afraid that I won't be able to stop myself, or not that I won't be able - because stopping myself isn't really the right term. It's not like I can't stop myself from cutting myself. It's just like it seems like a good idea at the time. It's still an action that I do. [00:25:51]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:25:53) deciding not to stop yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I am really scared. I mean my telling James I'm scared that I will try to kill myself is what kind of started that conversation last night. I explained to him the distinction between trying to kill myself and succeeding myself in my eyes, and he was like oh well that's actually really helpful. That makes me feel better. [00:26:33]
THERAPIST: Okay, well what is it?
CLIENT: The distinction between I am going to have a plan to kill myself and get all of the stuff and do things which I'm confident that that's not going to happen because that takes some sustained thinking on my part, and I don't go through that sustained thinking without thinking of all the reasons not to.
THERAPIST: It's like the difference between murder one and manslaughter or something.
CLIENT: Yeah basically. Yeah. And then I'll just take a knife to my throat.
THERAPIST: Is that often what you imagine? [00:27:21]
CLIENT: Yeah. Or hanging myself. I have a balcony, but I don't think would actually work because I would freak out and climb back up. (Pause) Trying to make sense of all that. (Laughter)
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah it feels like the more out of my mind, insane, non-rational the more that part of me kind of takes over the harder I work in terms of trying to think it through. At the same time it says that I have the thought I'm just going to go hang myself and the thought actually that probably is not going to work so maybe I won't do that in very quick succession. [00:28:47]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Okay well these are the options that you're working with. Let's examine them. Like I said, it doesn't actually make sense.
THERAPIST: What led you to cut yourself yesterday? [00:29:31]
CLIENT: I just kind of wanted to all day. It was after work and it was (inaudible at 00:29:46) both very useful in helping me plan how to cope and I was trying to be rationally present during the session. So afterward I just went into the bathroom at the health center and just laid on the floor and cried for a long time. I mean I wasn't actually particularly upset. I was just disgusted with myself. It was like six hours (inaudible at 00:30:35). And I got work done yesterday. I applied to jobs. I have an appointment at a staffing agency on Friday so that's exciting. I get to practice my interview skills which are actually pretty good. I feel pretty good about that. It's so bad but I... I was just restless and hating myself and all of this despair and rage is there. I'm just not feeling it right now. So instead of saying well fuck this I cut myself. I usually try not to have it go that way. I try for it to be a last resort rather than... [00:31:51]
THERAPIST: What'd you do?
CLIENT: I just (pause). Actually I scraped up my arm on the cement wall, and I was opening a bottle of wine and kind of twirled the wine cork across my arm earlier; you know things that don't count. I just cut myself on my leg with an exacto knife. It was pretty deep so I only did it once, and then I cried, and then I called you after a while, and we talked about "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". Do you watch that show ever? [00:32:53]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I used to watch that.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I do.
CLIENT: I don't know if I told you that's James and my favorite show.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: It is. It's much more James's favorite show than it is mine. It's one show of a lot that I really, really like. But James really identifies with Buffy.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Oh yeah like really loves the show. I think it's very therapeutic for him to watch. So it' just like... I mean it's sort of silly and campy but Joss Whedon also I think is really, really good. I don't know if you saw "The Avengers" but that was really good. [00:33:40]
THERAPIST: I did not see that.
CLIENT: You should see it. You should see it. It's not Joss at his best but it's...
THERAPIST: It's okay?
CLIENT: I mean it's not like this same kind of real deep insights into the human heart that you see in some of his better work, but he does ensemble pieces really well. Yeah. It's like she lifts her ambition from talking about Buffy to talking about trying to kill myself. [00:34:14]
I mean I feel like it is less of a (inaudible at 00:34:17) than it might be that I'm on season five which I actually had to stop watching in the middle of it because that's the season where she basically commits suicide at the end of the season...
THERAPIST: Is that the one where she jumps off the platform?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's suicide but she's saving the world isn't she?
CLIENT: She is. The way that the season develops basically she goes from...
THERAPIST: Is that the one with the (inaudible at 00:34:46)...
CLIENT: Yeah. Being strong to really wanting to die at least the way that I read it. And so I think...
THERAPIST: I haven't seen it in a while. I probably saw most of that season.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's kind of an old show. I mean it's old enough that when it aired I couldn't watch it because I didn't have cable television. I was living with my parents or high school. I just felt like I didn't catch it until later. (Pause) I lost what I was going to say. [00:35:40]
THERAPIST: You've been talking about it not being as much of an (inaudible at 00:35:44).
CLIENT: Yes. We talk about this show a lot but it's mostly a means of talking about different kinds of relationships, different kinds of things like how do you live a good life, how do you fight evil, how do you do relationships because everybody on this show is so bad at relationships. It's like they planned in season one nobody's ever going to be happy and every time somebody's got something good on they just shut it down and it's for all stupid reasons. But it was also there's a lot of despair there in a way that can be very scary for me. So I can either watch it and not really engage which is what I mostly did last night, or watch something else. [00:37:02]
THERAPIST: What was getting from the season five?
CLIENT: It's just the way in which everything in Buffy's life just kind of gets taken apart as the season goes on and she just fights, and fights, and fights, and fights, and ultimately in this situation she knows that she cannot win she... And it's not even - The tag line of that whole season is Buffy tells Dawn at the very last episode is the hardest thing about life is living it and Buffy dies. I don't think that's... James and I have had discussions about this obviously. That's what we do. But I don't think that's an accident. I think she gives up. [00:38:19]
Yeah. I feel like I've just been fighting, and fighting, and fighting, and fighting, and things just keep getting worse or seem that I'm not going to win. I'm going to give up. Luckily I don't have a really annoying nemesis. God I hate that character. That character's so bad. She's so bad. Or at least not one that's physically embodied and talks to me. [00:39:21]
THERAPIST: Wait who?
CLIENT: Oh I was talking about Glory.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I hate that character. Mostly I just find her annoying. She's just really poorly written, really poorly acted.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think I remember her being pretty flat.
CLIENT: Yeah and just nothing there. Not very well conceived really, but also they hired someone who sucks. So that would be worse. (Laughter)
THERAPIST: You don't really think you'd ever win this? [00:40:08]
CLIENT: No. (Pause) But it's one of those feelings that is... I'm pretty convinced of and I know A nobody wants me to say that, and B nobody else believes that. So I kind of trust other people's (inaudible at 00:40:51) more than my own. And I'm naturally a pretty optimistic person like that's just my basic orientation. [00:41:03]
I think I told you this before at one point several months ago James got upset with me saying I don't think I'm going to get better. My basically being defeated. He was just like you're not this person. You're not somebody who gives up. You're not somebody who loses hope like kind of how dare you lose hope. I said well it only took a year of constant grinding down. He said well okay I guess that's fair. (Pause) Yeah, I just sometimes don't see life forward. And part of that's self protection and every time I put trust or hope in something it does not work. I get pretty excited about new things. This'll be the one and then I get excited about new things anyway. (Pause) And it keeps coming back. [00:42:42]
THERAPIST: Well we can stop for now. (inaudible at 00:42:57). [00:43:07]
END TRANSCRIPT
