TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Right on time as usual.
CLIENT: You said it not me.
CLIENT: (Chuckle)—I did.
CLIENT: (Blowing nose), you probably jinxed yourself. (Cough).
CLIENT: Probably. You may want to—you still have some on your nose. (Pause). 
CLIENT: How's that?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (Pause). I'm kind of bummed out. All I keep hearing is how all these closing attorneys are really busy, and the guys I do titles for are really busy. Everybody's really busy but me. (Pause), (clears throat), and I ran into my guy—Harry's boss. He's like, is Harry keeping you busy? I'm like, ahhh (ph). [00:01:18]
(Pause), so this is the time I should be raking it in and I'm not, so if I miss this opportunity, things are going to cool off at some point. (Clears throat), I did get a closing with one bank.
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: Some woman just called me out of the blue and she's going through the branch. The branch signed me to do the closing apparently. I haven't gotten any paperwork or anything so (pause), we'll see how that goes. But (pause), hopefully that means more closings. (Pause).
I'm just worried having to buy a new car, how am I going to pay, (pause), the monthly payment on the car. I haven't even really, (cough), gone to any dealers and checked them out. They're all in the low $20 thousand range, the ones that I'm looking at, which I guess I probably would get for a little less than 20. [00:02:36]
I don't really know how this stuff works, the difference between invoice and manufacturer's suggested retail price, but that's still—unless I put a chunk of money down or my parent's put a chunk of money down, that's still a $300 a month payment, which, (clears throat),—I just sent some money off to my student loans, which was probably a bad idea, but I did it anyways because there was a little extra cash.
(Pause), but I haven't been paying those. I owe 15 hundred to one and the other one I only owe $90, but the payment's only $60 a month, so I'm three months behind. (Clears throat), (pause), I have a closing on Tuesday and then closings in the middle of the month, which should be decent (pause), cash for this month. [00:03:54] 
(Pause), (clears throat), hopefully soccer practice is cancelled for today. (Pause), on Tuesday I went to—and picked up Ian from school and we went and kicked a soccer ball around. When we went, (clears throat), home and opened the door Lucille screamed dada. So she's kind of getting a little more used to, (pause), me—
THERAPIST: Cool.
CLIENT: And she kept pointing to my coffee going dada, dada. She was kind of a little bit of a nut. I guess most second kids are.
THERAPIST: (Snickers).
CLIENT: Why is that funny? I'm a second kid. Are you a second kid?
THERAPIST: (Laughs).
CLIENT: I could find out.
THERAPIST: Yeah you probably could. 
CLIENT: (Laughs), (pause). I already know too much about you.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause).
THERAPIST: What do you know?
CLIENT: (Clears throat), well I know you're going to hell.
THERAPIST: (Laughs), which of the many reasons do you have in mind?
CLIENT: Well because you didn't atone for your sins. I didn't do the greatest job. I tried fasting but it didn't work out so well. (Pause), I didn't eat a lot, but, (sniffle), I went to a break the fast at the cafe and I ate a lot—because even if I had fasted I gained weight, because I had Chinese food the night before and then break the fast. And I just—I was so hungry I ate a lot. (Pause), (clears throat), I don't know. I don't think I'll ever lose this. [00:06:30]
Have you seen that insanity workout? (Pause).
THERAPIST: Is that the P90X?
CLIENT: No this is—
THERAPIST: A different one?
CLIENT: This is even more crazier than the P90X.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: It's like a 40 minute workout a day and just nonstop interval. It's like reverse interval training, so you do like three minutes of intense exercise, 30 second rest, three minutes of intense exercise. And it's all these, (clears throat), Burpee type stuff, all these crazy exercises and in just 60 days you get your ripped abs.
I was wondering—I just couldn't keep up with it. I wouldn't do it. I struggle doing my own exercises now. Forty minutes every day would just be crazy. Then on the days I play Ultimate I'd just be too tired to ride my bike and play Ultimate and do Insanity. Plus I'm sure they're going to want money for the—but I probably can get the CDs from someone, so I'm just going to stay fat. [00:07:55]
(Pause), but it's Friday (clears throat)—going to that concert tonight, kind of excited for that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause), that'll be fun, (pause), all by myself. (Pause), who knows, she may pull me out of the crowd and have me come backstage, but she's married with two kids. She's still pretty hot though at 39. [00:09:07]
(Pause).
THERAPIST: Maybe she's beyond thinking they're simple (ph) out there, (pause).
CLIENT: (Chuckles) that's an awful, awful joke.
THERAPIST: (Laughs), (pause).
CLIENT: I think about that every so often.
THERAPIST: I mean I'm going to hell anyway.
CLIENT: Yeah, but you just don't believe in hell, so (pause), you really aren't going to hell. You're just gong to be stuck and walk in here forever. No heaven for you. Me neither so—
THERAPIST: You don't believe in heaven either? I don't believe in heaven.
CLIENT: Yeah, you get written in the Book of Life and you go to heaven. (Clears throat). I don't know why they call it the Book of Life because you're dead. It should be the book of death. (Pause).
THERAPIST: So you're bummed about not having more closings?
CLIENT: Yeah. I should be really busy right now and I'm not. And, (pause), I don't know if there's anything I can do about it. (Pause), (clears throat), (sniffs). [00:010:28]
THERAPIST: Could you sit down with a few of the attorneys you know who are really busy to talk to them about how they're so busy but...
CLIENT: Well they're mortgage guys are busy, mine's not. At some point—
THERAPIST: So it's more about hooking up with the right mortgage guy?
CLIENT: Yeah. Harry's just not that busy. And, (pause), I don't know. Rates are just outrageously low. Hopefully you're taking advantage of that. And (pause), I don't know, I mean two to three closings a month just isn't cutting it, where this is the time when I should be having six, seven, eight closings just, (pause). [00:11:24]
It's nice because I have plenty of time to sleep and, (pause), blow stuff off, but I'd kind of rather be busy doing closings and getting paid, catch up a little bit. (Pause), (clears throat), but my CPA's like, yeah all my closing attorneys are really busy. You must be really busy. It's hard to tell people no you're not. You're supposed to give that appearance of success.
(Pause), I have just a handful of closings in the pipeline, (pause), and I have plenty of these titles to do. But once again it's a buck seventy five a piece doesn't really (pause), (clears throat) [00:12:41]
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you're kind of, (pause). 
CLIENT: (Sniffs), (pause). I mean this could last a longer period of time for a chance to (ph) Harry to—I mean I don't know. I don't know what marketing he does. I don't know, (pause), is he using other attorneys? I don't know. 
And I'm not really seeing, other than landlord/tenant stuff, I'm not seeing much from the realtor in the group as far as—she sent me the one closing. (Pause) I don't know. (Pause), Ian is going to join the Cub Scouts. I'm going to be a scout person, dad. [00:14:04]
THERAPIST: Scout dad?
CLIENT: Yeah. Even though I'm morally opposed to the scouts because of there position on sexual orient ...
THERAPIST: Homophobia (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah they're homophobic. But he wants to do it and what does he know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause), who knows, he could be homosexual and that would be a big joke on them. (Pause), but maybe it's an opportunity for me to meet other dads. I mean I really haven't gotten any business out of soccer, just the pain in the ass of the kids driving me crazy. The games are fine. They don't drive me crazy during the games, during the practice.
(Clears throat), Ian misbehaves. (Pause), and he says it's because he's so tired. (Pause), isn't it weird though that a six year old knows why they're misbehaving? (Snickers). [00:15:20]
THERAPIST: I don't know (ph) if a six year old has heard it from somewhere before—
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or someone actually said.
CLIENT: Why aren't you listening to me?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles).
CLIENT: Well I had gym today, this and that. I'm really tired. (Pause), (clears throat), (pause).
THERAPIST: Smart kid.
CLIENT: Too smart. (Pause), have to pick him up from school today. No soccer practice would be nice so I could just take an afternoon nap. I was kind of up a little late last night after practice.
(Pause), I ended up doing some tequila shots then rode my bike home. (Pause), I wore my bright yellow so they could easily shoot me, nice target [00:16:33]. (Pause), no one's tried to shoot me yet though.
THERAPIST: Well that's good.
CLIENT: (Sniffs), I guess it's not as Philgerous as they, (yawns), presumed it to be. (Pause), then when I got home, who knows what I did. I woke up at five o'clock on the couch. (Pause). 
[00:17:27]
My friend Jackie's in town, so everybody's going to the pub tonight to see Jackie. She's the one who—
THERAPIST: Right, right—who brought you the [inaudible at 00:17: 41].
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What's the place?
CLIENT: The local pub.
THERAPIST: Oh, oh, oh okay.
CLIENT: And, (pause), so with no soccer practice, I could go to that. Introduce them all in time, and then leave with enough time to go to the show. But it's going to be raining. I'll probably have to drive. (Pause), I guess I could walk and bring my raincoat, but that's—I have my raincoat, (pause). Maybe it will have stopped raining by then, (pause). I don't know, (pause).
THERAPIST: So what kind of bummed are you feeling?
CLIENT: I don't know, failure, despair, just, (pause), in some ways I'm just kind of like, (pause). I've accepted it—that that's just the way it's going to be that, (pause), I just don't know what to do to improve things. [00:18:45]
I mean things are slightly better financially, but (pause), I just can't seem to get over that hump and this is like the perfect time where I should be over that hump. And we're coming into the holidays and just ... 
THERAPIST: That's always down (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah, just I don't know. (Clears throat), I feel like I'm running out of options and, (pause), I don't know, just, (pause), (sighs), (pause).
It's like my buddy Phil is, yeah,—his mortgage guy is named Bruce—he's, Bruce just got really busy. Yeah, everybody's really busy except for my guy, which I'm like, was it a mistake to not try and see more people?
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:20:11]
CLIENT: I mean not see more people, but he was the first one to come in and I took him and ... 
THERAPIST: Right, maybe you should have, (pause), waited.
CLIENT: But (pause), some in the group knew him and I figured he was young and hungry, but—he works in a bar or a restaurant two nights a week. [So aside from that] (ph)—so it's not like he's completely starving, which would be helpful. His sister's a realtor so you would think he would be getting more deals.
He used to be a realtor and I don't know, (yawns), (pause). [I'm no longer president. I resigned at the last meeting.] (ph).
THERAPIST: Right. [00:21:11]
CLIENT: Well, I'll be president until Sunday and then it's over, (pause), mixed emotions there, (pause). But hopefully with some new—it's the president and the vice president are kind of new to group, or at least, (pause), energetic.
It's the realtor who's kind of a grab the bull by the horns kind of person, and the vice president, her dad was in the group for years and never did anything. And then she's in the group now and she's all excited.
So (pause), now I'm just going to be a member at large. My role is to sit in the back and throw out side comments, (pause). [00:22:09]
So I'm supposed to get extra time today from Tuesday where you kicked me out, (pause). I don't know what we're going to do with that, (pause).
THERAPIST: Is this feeling pointless?
CLIENT: What, coming here? I wouldn't use the word pointless. I mean, I feel like I need someone to talk to, so in that regard it's—sometimes things happen and I want to tell somebody, and I'm like, oh I can just tell you, so (pause). [00:23:09]
I don't know if it was yesterday, but I just, (pause), I don't know why, I just felt like I just wanted to talk to people. So I called Phil and Phil was busy. And I called my dad, and my dad was busy. He called me back.
I want to take Ian when we go down to visit—I wanted him to go to a football game. So I had my dad try and get a ticket, kind of expensive, but I kind of told him it was a possibility, and he's so excited.
THERAPIST: Would that be the first game he'd go to?
CLIENT: Yeah, his first football game.
THERAPIST: Wow (ph), (pause).
CLIENT: He's been to many baseball games and I'm taking him to a soccer game next month.
THERAPIST: (Pause).
CLIENT: But I think he'll like the football game. He doesn't really understand the game or anything like that but—so there will probably be a lot of what's this, what's that? [00:24:25]
I think when he goes to baseball games he watches the people and things that are going on in the game more than the actual game, (pause). My dad's worried that he'll want to leave early, and I'm like, oh no he won't want to leave. He's not like that. He went to a 15-inning baseball game.
THERAPIST: [Laughs]. He's all over that?
CLIENT: He's still doing one of these.
THERAPIST: [Laughs].
CLIENT: It's because they were letting the kids run the bases at the end of the game.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: He wanted to run the bases and I'm like, all right buddy. They are going to win this inning or they're going to lose or the game's going to go on, either way, we're leaving, and it ended up being 17 innings, (pause).
[Yawns], maybe next year he'll get to run the bases, but I don't know where I'm going to have the money to pay for the tickets. (Sniffs), because it's always in December when I have no money, (pause). [00:25:41]
Money just flies out the door. It's always fucking something, (pause). I'm waiting for it to fly in the door (pause). All these fucking tax payments just, (pause), they're nuts, (pause).
Some guy wants to hire, he's talking about hiring me. He's like I can't afford a big retainer. I'm like great, my perfect client, no money, (pause). But it has something to do with selling his house. So if he sold the house, I'd be able to get paid—[00:26:52]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: From the proceeds, but I don't know. There's some issues involved, which, (pause), I don't know, (pause). Have a brew off tomorrow, a home brew contest, (pause). It's seven or nine different beers. I'll probably get a little wasted. I have to eat. The last time I didn't eat anything really. [00:27:56].
THERAPIST: The last time you said you drank between tastings.
CLIENT: I drank, yeah, so I was pretty shit faced. With this one, I'm going to try and be a little more, (pause). It's hard to say though because once I start drinking, I start drinking, and then, (pause).
It's away. I'm going to drive my car and that way if I get too drunk I can just take the bus home, (pause). If I ride my bike I'm more worried about where I'm going to park my bike overnight and all. I think it's supposed to—it might be supposed to rain too, (pause). The nice thing aboutit is they have the orange line, (pause).
[00:29:01].
Even after doing that many tequila shots, I don't feel like I was drunk where I was fine riding my bike, just tired. I did my exercises in the morning and I rode my bike out there.
We played. We played these young, sass kids. They (ph) only had six people, (pause), and you need seven. So we played seven on six the whole time. They kept asking to play six on six, but it's like, we have a whole team there. We have lots of people.
THERAPIST: It's not fair to your team—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Nobody you showed up.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause), so (pause), I had one really shitty point. Then I made a really nice throw, (pause). Hopefully people will remember the really nice throw and not my shitty point, (pause).
Somebody yelled at me and then apologized for yelling at me. I thought that was nice, (pause). I deserved it. I made a stupid—just rushed it. I should have taken my time. [00:30:13]
THERAPIST: Did you throw an interception?
CLIENT: No I just threw it behind him and he dropped it, with (ph) his arms out. He still should have caught it. (Pause). I should have put it out in front of him and (sniff) give him space to run to it. (Pause), I haven't thrown up this morning. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yesterday was really bad. I was really hacking and puking, and hacking and puking, and hacking and puking. It's all just, (pause), stopped—nothing else really. (Pause), I had a little bit of water, so water came up as well, but I didn't see my pills or anything. [00:31:15]
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I assumed they dissolve. I don't know how it works, but (pause), I assume that I'm not throwing up my medicine. (Pause), I see my psychiatrist on Tuesday, (pause). Did I tell you I missed her and (pause), it's the second time I've done that. (Pause), (phone rings).
Gees, they keep calling me. Jess's working with the office trying to work out something with the bank. I don't fucking care. I'm just—it's so much fucking work to deal with them and nothing came of it. It's just a pain in the ass. [00:32:15].
(Pause). I have to go to the registry today. It seems like I'm at the registry almost every day now. (Pause), I bring my briefcase home some.
THERAPIST: You seem, (pause), more listless. Or like less into talking about stuff. You're, (pause), maybe, (pause), then.
CLIENT: Is it because I'm hung-over or ... 
THERAPIST: I don't know. [00:33:15]
CLIENT: I'm not hung-over. I'm just tired. It's been a long week. (Pause).
THERAPIST: So you're pretty worn out?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause).
THERAPIST: I mean it seems like you're kind of biding your time here. I guess that's how it seems. (Pause).
CLIENT: Does that make you feel unimportant?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles).
CLIENT: Isn't that what you do is bide your time, get through the day?
THERAPIST: Is that what I do?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh, well tell me about that. (Pause), I just sort of sit here and—
CLIENT: That's what I do.
THERAPIST: Just kind of passively listen, sort of occasionally think of something to say, but ... 
CLIENT: How do I get your job?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles).
CLIENT: Is it too late? (Pause), I'll be 50 by the time I'd finish with my schooling. [00:34:10]
(Pause).
THERAPIST: So it's like, (pause),—
CLIENT: Take on some more student loans.
THERAPIST: This is the (chuckles).
CLIENT: You could be my mentor.
THERAPIST: This is the let's make a joke out of what Ethan is asking about part of the session? (Chuckles), because you don't necessarily want to think about it, or talk about it, or work on something, so we're going to, (pause), block it into oblivion, sort of.
CLIENT: Am I your most annoying patient?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles), (pause).
CLIENT: You wake up and it's just like oh, fuck it's Friday.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles), (pause).
CLIENT: Okay, so I'm listless. I'm biding my time, (pause). What does that mean? How does that make me feel? (Pause), listless, (chuckles). I don't know, I mean I am, I'm lacking in a little bit of sleep. [00:35:18]
But I've also been noticing this weekend I've had trouble getting out of bed, where I had been up at seven and just couldn't go back to bed. I'm now just dragging—so the contract all week.
I don't know if it's my medications or, (pause), so fucked up the—what I'm on and what I'm not on and just, (pause), (sigh), (smack), (pause).
THERAPIST: But it also sounds like there's some things that you're bummed about, I guess through work. [00:36:17]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean it's not new, but it sounds like you've heard this week about people being busy, and that—
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Made you feel crumby.
CLIENT: Like I was really—there were a couple times where I was really excited because I'm going to the concert tonight.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Then I'm like, I'm going by myself because I don't have anybody who—I mean Jess likes that kind of music but (pause), I really, (pause), don't, (pause), think we should be doing stuff anymore. Call me crazy.
So it's like I just don't have any friends or, (pause), I don't know. So that'll probably sink in at some point but (pause). It would be nice because it's such a small venue. It would be a good show.
THERAPIST: I think you get when you (pause), feel, (pause), I think, (pause), kicked in gut, (pause), like this, that you get more passive. [00:37:36]
CLIENT: (Pause), well isn't that natural? (Pause), some people get more aggressive.
THERAPIST: Sure people get all sorts of things. Some get more hostile, some people get more agitated. People get all sorts of things. You tend to like, (pause), check out a little bit.
CLIENT: (Pause), I'm definitely checked out. (Pause), it's Friday. I don't want to do any work, (pause). I was slightly productive yesterday, (pause). I had a ton of stuff to do, (pause).
THERAPIST: I guess in a way being checked out means like a way of distancing yourself a bit from, (pause).
CLIENT: My problems. [00:38:39]
THERAPIST: The pain, like the upset, that things that are really bothering you.
CLIENT: I have to do something to cope, right? (Pause), It's only natural, (pause).
THERAPIST: Otherwise what would happen?
CLIENT: I would be in pain. I'd be upset, (pause). I'd be hostile. I'd want to kill small furry animals, (pause), with a pellet gun. (Pause), I would skin them and make hats out of them, the fur, (pause). Maybe that's pushing it a little. (Snickers). [00:39:22]
THERAPIST: (Chuckles), you mean the part with the hat?
CLIENT: Or killing the small furry animals, (pause). Someone offered me a dog this week, (pause), on Wednesday. Part of me wants a dog and part of me—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause), I'd rather have a woman, (pause), because I don't have to worry about walking them or feeding them. Well I guess you have to feed them but (pause).
THERAPIST: I hear they can generally feed themselves.
CLIENT: (Chuckles). Yeah but occasionally you have to take them places where they can [inaudible at 40:08]. (Pause), so (pause), (tapping), I don't know. (Pause), I guess there's things I should be happy about I'm (pause), getting a new car, but there's always some freaking catch. There's nothing, (pause), happens that I can completely enjoy it. I mean last night was enjoyable, at practice.
THERAPIST: Why is it enjoyable?
CLIENT: I had that rough point. We played some guys who were fast and there was no way I could keep up with them and (pause), we, (pause), our general manager lives right down the block, street from the park, so we went that—grilled up some burgers and brats, and (pause), had some beers. [00:41:12]
And then after everybody left, and I did tequila shots. And he kept pouring more tequila shots—[a bit] (ph) of little shot glasses, (pause). It was good tequila, (pause).
(Yawns), drove my car today. (Pause), didn't feel like riding my bike. I don't know if that comports with the whole listless, (pause). It's not like it was raining heavily, but I just didn't want to deal with it, (pause).
THERAPIST: I guess the issue is that, while you're right, (pause), it's important to have ways to cope. One of the, (pause)—yours cause some further problems.
CLIENT: My coping? [00:42:24]
THERAPIST: Yeah, like when you go to the park, to actually get work done, which can make a difference. And at times, I think it can be hard to sort of look at and take responsibility for things, which, (pause), can cause you trouble.
CLIENT: So you're saying that I don't have any closings because I don't take responsibility for it? (Pause).
THERAPIST: No. I don't know that. I mean I guess it would surprise me if that were part of it, but I would, I don't know.
CLIENT: You don't have to get defensive.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles). No I'm not, I just saying that I'm, (pause),—if I knew ... 
CLIENT: Well I don't know what you mean. I don't know what you mean, I guess, by taking responsibility. [00:43:23]
THERAPIST: Well, let's say you were talking to a therapist who was trying to point to some of the stuff you're struggling with and you tended to want to like, (pause), move away from that or indirectly kind of shut it down or, (pause), stuff like that. I mean I guess that would be one.
CLIENT: So I'm not taking responsibility for my problems? (Pause), not, (pause), taking responsibility for my life. (Pause).
THERAPIST: I guess I'm referring to something pretty specific. Yeah, which is for, let's say, like for how that, (pause), how you respond to that. Yeah.
CLIENT: (Yawns). (Pause).
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think that's right.
CLIENT: Well what can I do to change all this? [00:44:26]
THERAPIST: (Pause), what comes to mind?
CLIENT: Smoking crack. (Pause), that'll give you energy. (Pause), I wouldn't know where to buy crack though really. Do they still even do crack? Is that, (pause)? You don't hear much about crack anymore. (Pause), (tapping), (pause), you see, I come here and I have a big coffee.
But before I come here, I want to come here, go back home and go back to bed, but I can't because I've had a big coffee, (pause). I don't know what that means, but (pause), so I'll take a shower, go to the registry. Maybe I should do some laundry today too. I desperately need to do some laundry. [00:45:42]
(Pause), I have to pick up Ian though. So I don't know, (pause), I have to get some medication as well. (Pause), I could go test drive the car today, (pause). I think I'm going to do that on Sunday, (pause). Do you know what time car dealers open up on Sunday? Do they open up early or ... ?
THERAPIST: I don't know.
CLIENT: (Pause), (sniffs), (pause), it's not even like I really want to test drive cars, like that makes a difference to me. I'll get used to whatever car it is. (Pause), I'd like something with decent gas mileage because that's such a big expense for me. That's the problem with the Subaru is just they don't get that great a gas mileage. [00:46:51]
(Pause), but I want a Subaru. (Pause), there's the CR-V and the Rav4, which a little baby SUV is, (pause), they have some room in the back, but not a lot. Probably enough just to keep the soccer balls back there, but I guess you could put the seats down, and if I ever needed to use it to, (pause) ...
THERAPIST: To carry [inaudible at 00:47:24]?
CLIENT: Yeah, so I don't know. (Pause), don't know if I'm going to see the kids this weekend, maybe on Sunday. (Pause), (sniff), Lucille seems to want to play on her own, not necessarily want to play with me. (Pause), they post pictures from her daycare on Facebook.
(Pause), she was dancing with another girl. She was holding her hands. (Pause), so I download all these pictures and post them. I don't know. (Pause), it's funny because in a lot of them she's not smiling, but these she was actually smiling in. She was going down the slide looking at the camera.
THERAPIST: (Pause), what about stopping for now?
CLIENT: (Sighs), sounds good.
THERAPIST: Okay. (Pause).
CLIENT: Stay dry.
THERAPIST: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
