TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This, is interview number four, interview number four.
Plan 0735 - 103, plan 0735 - 103. 
Interview number four...June 29th 1970, June 29th 1970.


PATIENT: We're in business, huh?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: The stairs get higher every time we meet.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, we had an elevator in the...nothing (ph)


PATIENT: But, ah (inaudible) you have to have a key to use the elevator.


COUNSELOR: Oh, no. no.


PATIENT: Is that right? Sometimes they have keys for the elevators [and then] (ph) you have a key sitting right here.


COUNSELOR: You don't have an ashtray? There's one there.


PATIENT: Which microphone am I using?


COUNSELOR: Hmm?


PATIENT: Which microphone am I to use now?


COUNSELOR: This one. It doesn't matter. It'll pick it up so you don't have to think about facing it or anything.


PATIENT: (sigh) Before I came down here I thought well, I got at least a couple hours of material to put down on tape.


COUNSELOR: What's been happening?


PATIENT: Oh, nothing. Just between sessions...I think about things...and oh, I want to get that down on tape. What you do with these tapes, I don't' know. I just have the same tape on there each time, and each time I come in I create a new tape and the other one's wiped out.


COUNSELOR: Were you wanting to know? (inaudible at 2:06)


PATIENT: No, no.


COUNSELOR: Oh, ok.


PATIENT: Ah, last time I came in here...I had something I wanted to unload, so to speak. After I left, I had to think...now, what did that accomplish? I think I came down here with the idea that I got this problem now - and I'm gonna tell the tape recorder, and it's gonna be its problem now - and I won't have to worry about it anymore. If it comes to it, it won't be my fault; it'll be the tape recorders fault. [2:37]


COUNSELOR: Uh, huh. Like with it you could take care of it by, sort of letting the tape recorder worry about it.


PATIENT: I think I get the idea sometimes that this thing's a computer; I'm gonna tell it all my problems and it's gonna come out with the answers. And that's going to be the end of it. But, like I say...I think I've realized since then, that it's not gonna work out that way. 


So I have come to grips with the problem myself, I guess you might say. I figured, well, if that's the way it goes...that's the way it goes. Not that I don't succeed in spite of that. It's just that I have a huge, different perspective with the problem than I had last time that seemed to be so tremendous in the moment.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm getting something of an idea from what you're saying about it.


Like it's not that you've given up, but that you sort of like -


PATIENT: Well, no. I just don't think that's the...that's gonna be the ultimate to it. I think maybe that I've come to a realization that maybe you go out in this cold, cold dang world you might be able to make it. You know, you never can tell.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's not that everything would be over if you got divorced


That wouldn't be the end of the line. [4:16]


PATIENT: I've also gotten some other ideas from my wife on this, whether that it helped her or not, I don't know. But it seems to me, I can't think what they might have been. Like I said, she told me she went to see her old boyfriends. Alright...we do the same thing.


Well, back six months ago when she first started telling me about this, I looked at it from the idea that...well, you go out and do that and I'll go out and see if I can find a girlfriend you see. And I didn't really try tremendously to find a girlfriend. Ah, what little attempting I did make, didn't seem to pan out. Succeed whatever you want to call it. 

But, there again I still think if it came to a divorce, and I was out in the single world again, succeeding or failing wouldn't be that important then.


COUNSELOR: Ah, how do you mean that?


PATIENT: Not so much from the sex standpoint, as just from the standpoint of having friends. 


COUNSELOR: Uh huh, I think I am getting it. It's like you don't have to look at it, as like you're either going to succeed or fail sexually. Like -


PATIENT: It seems to be more secondary now than it was a week ago. Well, something came into my mind the last couple of days that started this. Like I said, I was brought up in a family where it was...well I wouldn't say close-knit but there's a lot of dependency on each other. [6:21]


I depended a lot on my mother, and my mother tended to baby me, I guess you could say to a great extent, maybe even too much. Even after I was in the service or out working - what have you - still I got the impression that I was her baby, you know. 


And this, is only in the last couple of...three/four years - something like this - that this has kind of ceased to be, more or less. 


I guess after...well, up until the time I got married she used to buy clothes for me. You know, just go to town, she'd buy some clothes she liked for me and I of course...she knows my sizes and I wasn't worried about clothes too much. Consequently to this day, I don't worry about clothes too much. When I got married, my wife didn't assume this role and maybe this was part of the problem but I expected a marriage to take up where the home life had left off. 


Here just in the last couple of weeks...well, last couple of years, let put it that way she has -"Well, you need some new clothes, you know." This to me is a saying...a reinforcing of this old idea of mother love, I guess you could call it. And what that has to do with anything pertinent, I don't know. But anyways.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wasn't sure how you meant it, like maybe it made you feel like she cared or maybe, you didn't like it because it was sort of like -


PATIENT: No, I think I really did feel the idea that I appreciated it. It was...like I say; I'd been coming from a point where I depended on it so much that it wasn't there. It seemed to be withering away, any love you might say. [8:24]


And she has just a little bit of (inaudible at 8:30) in assuming this role. It seems to be reinforcing what a, might be or it seems to be building up something that was lacking, up until this time.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, because you take it as a sign that she's interested in you and concerned - 


PATIENT: A little bit, but I also get the sign that it's clear to me every once in a while, that...well what I am trying to say is, sometimes I get the feeling that nobody in this world really loved me. Regular times seemed liked that...what we called love - between my wife and myself - is just sort of, I'll tolerate you to this extent. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Which leaves you in some basic way very much alone.


PATIENT: And sometimes what I need is for, somehow for her to build up this idea of love and dependency and you know...this type of thing that takes away from your insecurity. A lot of the times she points to the fact that we really don't love each other so much as we kind of feel secure with the other one around now. This goes back to family life before we'd ever got married or met even. She had a big deal of dependency on her family, and of course I did too. So when we got married we turned around and tried to say that we had developed love for each other, which we didn't really feel that we had to begin with. And all it maybe amounted to was a feeling of dependency or security on the other person. [10:35]


Assuming something we had had it our family life before, and transferred it from our family life to our married life, I guess you'd say. 


But I know good and well that this idea of having somebody that thinks you're number one in the world is something that's predominant. Everybody needs someone like that to have, someone that's really counting on. At least that what it seems to me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like I get two parts of that I see in you...like one is needing each other and depending on each other and the other part is someone thinking your number one.


PATIENT: Yeah, and...and when you get this thrown in your face, that there's a boyfriend that's occupying her time then it seems like she's more interested in you, then this tends to knock down all the little "I retires" you might have up in your mind. Let's don't go through that again.


Hmm, I mean...I'm a little bit depressed now and I remember back to that one a week ago when I went out of here so depressed I could have slid out under the door.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. When did you start thinking along those lines, right back there as depressed as you were? 


PATIENT: It's kind of funny in a way that we sit and tell each other we would do anything the other one wants us to. And yet, I've been trying to get her to loose a little bit of weight for three or four years and it doesn't seem that she's even tried. [13:23]


The only time that I've ever gotten any indication that she tried, was one time when a found a box of these "aids" or whatever these little candy things that you eat before a meal, and are suppose to keep you from getting so hungry. That was two or three years ago, and as far as I know since then. Well she tried it awhile according to the story I get, but it didn't work or something. She didn't think it was working so she gave it up. 


This to me is very important. I've said that I tried and tried for the longest time to gain weight and then ah...I kind of gave it up. I'd still like to gain some but I'm not trying as hard now as I used to. It has a lot to do with the fact that it seemed like it was for me to do something, and for her not to do anything.


COUNSELOR: It makes you feel less like trying, if she's not trying.


PATIENT: Listen to me; I've talked to her about this idea of her coming down for a session or two. She said she would be willing only on the condition that she thought it was necessary. So, do you think it might be necessary or help in any way (inaudible at 14:15) something like that?


COUNSELOR: Let me give that a bit of thought between now and then, James. (ph) 


PATIENT: The people that I've talked to about this, asked me if I am making any progress and it's just something that you don't visually see progress in redeeming some self esteem that I have lost. Not necessarily, like I say again, in the sexual capacity but more in the "I'm a human being, and he's what I can do and I'm getting out and doing it." [15:58]


COUNSELOR: Uh, huh. That's one change or kind of progress that you see. It's sort of like, shifting your viewpoint a little and starting to see yourself like a person, like a human being. Yeah, I don't think I've said that as a...hmm. Yeah.


PATIENT: Put this other thing...into a position and it occupied all my things and I couldn't pass/succeed in that, then I couldn't succeed in anything of worth really. It was secondary, maybe even less than that. I have decided since we started this that I can be a man in other ways, and maybe this will just follow suite, and prove myself of being...I don't know...better in other ways. And the other part will come around on its own.


Given this a...sexual incapacity shall we say, so many different reasons for being there for failing out. For not being able to perform, but it had gotten to a point that whenever I did, I would say - well this, is the reason or well that was the reason. I'd reinforce it, ok that's the reason it's gotten to the point where this was occupying to a great extent my thinking. Putting the other things secondary.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Letting the sexual things be the whole center of everything. [18:28]


PATIENT: I have...oh, this, isn't something that's developed in recent times, it's been something that I've given a great deal of thought for a long time. But it got to a point I mean, where it was just obscuring everything else and giving way to it. And when I failed at it, why it completely upset the boat, shall we say.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I think...I guess what you're coming around to is like; there's more to the boat than that. Like there is your whole life as a human being.


PATIENT: I was telling my wife the other day, before we got started on this swinging bit, that I didn't think of sex...sexual intercourse or things like that so much as I did before. Because before it seemed like there was one chance to pass or fail. And this got to be so important that it just, like I said, predominated everything and took precedence.


Now, I don't know, it just doesn't seem that important.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it doesn't dominate.


PATIENT: Even when we have something arranged with another couple, I can think about it once in awhile, say - oh, well I hope you have fun - or something like that but then it's a...can be pushed back to the secondary stage and I will go on with my work or whatever occupying my time.


COUNSELOR: Like, it's going to be a pleasant thing but it's kind of casual. [20:26]


PATIENT: Which, from what I understand she was encouraged to hear, whether that was a true thing or not, I don't know. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, because it's nice to see her being encouraged but ah don't know whether -


PATIENT: whether I can believe it or not. I don't think it'll ever get to the state where I have a pattern like I would like to. (Inaudible) 


What I am thinking is...I was thinking that before you get married you have this idea of what the perfect mate will be, you know...an this, and they'll do this and that and the other. And so when you pick out someone, you try to pick someone that fits into this pattern to a certain extent - and then you change the other little parts to fit in completely. 


But, I don't know. She's dead, she didn't...Like I said, she didn't have much to choose from when she got married and I didn't try to choose that of a mate. But none the less she didn't fit into every ideal...the ideals that I have for a wife and I suppose that I didn't either. But we always made the best of it. I guess maybe we're not - 


COUNSELOR: Making the best of it. [23:10]


PATIENT: Making the best of it. 


COUNSELOR: And I guess what you're saying before was that like you realize that she's never going to 100 percent fit the pattern you had in mind. 


PATIENT: Yeah. The reason for this, is the fact that I always pictured a...the ideal wife as being someone to a great extent shorter than me, smaller, petite, thin rather than heavyset, dependant rather than being independent. She's just as tall as I am, almost. She's heavier than I would like for a wife to be, even at her height she could be thinner but she still wouldn't be that...you know skinny, shall we say, person that I would rather have. 


And as far as he thinking, why that's an area she could never fit into because the ideal wife to me would have been more (inaudible at 24:34) obviously dependent on me to an extent where I would have got the impression that I was the only one to her.


She's rather independent, doesn't try to give me this feeling that she's dependent on me at all. And consequently maybe it bugs me that I realized, that maybe I'm not the only one. Not number one. Like I say, when we decided that we'd do away with the boyfriend/girlfriend...which was me "doing away" with on my part. I told her I didn't really believe her. She couldn't understand that - she says...she couldn't understand why I didn't believe her. She told me it was (inaudible at 25:45).


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but...pretty damn clear why you don't believe her. I guess it's like she lied to you all that time - 


PATIENT: All that time that she was doing things behind my back and then say well, I don't believe you. And then she says she's not gonna do it, and she can't understand why I don't believe her.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like your feeling is almost like...and she damn well doesn't deserve to be believed. [26:27]


PATIENT: When you put it right on that line. I'd say, I'm actually afraid to go out of town on business because of the fact that if I can't take her with me - I'm afraid to because of the fact that I don't know what she is doing when I am gone. And she can't comprehend this. 


She says...she seems to think that if there's any love there, then I will trust her completely. Even disregarding what has gone on before. It's like there is nothing to it. And in my mind, I know damn well that if she had half a chance she would be doing the same thing right now that she'd been doing before. At least that's the way I perceive it. 


I wonder what's running through my mind. I've got an idea I want to go home and present her with and see what she says. These friends of ours, these swingers... I believe she's had a hysterectomy or something like that, consequently she doesn't have to worry about periods, you know. Well they invited us to go on a week camping tour with them. A $10,000 camping trip or something. It struck me as being enjoyable and she was non-committal and I thought well (inaudible at 29:10).


Oh, I got to figuring up just when her next period was due and it's due right during this week these people want us to go with them, which puts it out of the question. It's part of the idea of going. So I think I'll ask her if she will commit to a hysterectomy, just to see what she'll say...for no other reasons. Not that I really want her to do something like that just, like I say, to see how much love she has got for me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, that kind of like putting her to the test.


PATIENT: The acid test...does that sound mean?


COUNSELOR: A little bit, yeah. But I guess in some way, you feel mean to her...you damn well do.


PATIENT: Yeah. It's not that I really want to hurt her, it's just that I want...I don't know maybe I want some reassurance that there's something there worth fighting for.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Is, she willing to do something for...you don't know.


PATIENT: According to her, when we got married there was very little actual love for me. Well, while she was trying to build up love so-to-speak. So on my part it wasn't building up love, it had to be...I can jump into something faster than she can. And from the Standpoint of...well, when we got married I had a great deal of fascination and I just transferred this to love in my books. For her there was not that much of anything and she had to build up love, according to her. 


And so in the process of the first three or four years that which, it was as stormy as any other...stormier than any other marriage. The odds that we had, I'd say going against us but the circumstances that we had to start out under. [31:58]


The biggest problem to her was the fact that one day I came home and asked her if she'd mind if I went out with some girl that I had a class with...a classmate or something. This according to her destroyed everything that she had built up until that time and then after that it was - do I want to start again, in her books...you know. Do I want to start trying to build this up again? 


And of course I didn't perceive this; I didn't get the message or anything like that at the time, because we weren't on the talking terms that we're on now. So for three, four, five years after that it went on...me not knowing just what the situation was.


I went on my own way. I mean I went on with the same type of love that I had for her before, but here she was trying to restructure according to her. And of course at the same time we were going from bad to worse on our sex life, you might say...according to her at least.


She hit me with one the other day that I'd never thought of. She thought that I was unfair because I didn't tell her about this masturbation problem before we got married. I said, well that kind of makes us even, and it started out on a bad foot with you being pregnant from some other guy, and me starting out with this in my background. So that kind of makes us even, don't you kind of think? (inaudible 33:44), I didn't appreciate it.


COUNSELOR: You didn't appreciate what she said -


PATIENT: What she said. Like I say, I didn't feel at the time that that was important. I didn't think it would enter into things and I think it might not have if it had started out...our sex life together, with more of a clean slate, I guess you'd say.


Instead of her having this idea that the first couple years there, when we were married she didn't want to have anything to do with me (inaudible at 34:28). Because she felt she had been wronged and of course it's...she probably didn't feel that at the time that she was taking her spite out on me. But I think she was to a certain extent. Because if we started out more completely with a clean slate why, I don't think we'd be in too many -


COUNSELOR: So like, your reaction to her is like, "Don't tell me it's my fault."


PATIENT: I still think that in order to be able to; at least have her in here for an hour so that you could. In an hour's time you could probably get a great deal of...understanding shall we say, on how she looks at things. Which maybe, I can't transmit second hand.


She looks at things entirely different, than what I would like to have her look at them from. On some things, and then on other things we are quite compatible. We have an amazing sixth sense with each other, you might say. It seemed like for the longest time we've known that every time that she will do certain things, I will do certain things and instead of using this to a mutual advantage. It seems like she uses it to her advantage.


COUNSELOR: She uses her sort of, perceptiveness of you...not like for communication, like but for manipulation? [36:43]


PATIENT: Yeah, and not to the point where it's...slide up to him so I can get a new dress. That's trivial. It's more from the standpoint of I'll get him to do this so that I'll have an excuse to do that. So, I didn't really separate the two, but there's a difference in them.


COUNSELOR: No, see...I think I see what you mean. It's both about a more important issue and it's subtler. 


PATIENT: I am still wondering how...not necessarily how but why, why I have a female therapist who didn't read those tests or put them in their testing. Because I know there in one place, that it said something - I don't know what the question was right at the moment but it said I am a great admirer of the female species. And I just wondered if this had anything to do with the fact that I have a female therapist rather than a male.


COUNSELOR: No, no, no.


PATIENT: It enters into my mind every once in awhile. Sometimes I wonder if I don't think too much.


COUNSELOR: Was there something you wondered about that? Or...


PATIENT: Um, yeah....I thought maybe this was put this way just to see if...well, I don't know, let's put it this way I feel that I can talk to a female more easily than I can to a male. I don't know what I've indicated this month but whenever I want somebody to talk to; I'm not like the guy like on Jackie Gleason (sp?)...who used to go to the bar and he'd sit there and talk to this guy, and the guy wouldn't even hear him. But he'd talk and he'd settle his problems up and this other guy would be talking about something entirely different. And I guess maybe this represented my pain, the other guy has just as many problems as I have and he doesn't want to hear me. [39:38]


Maybe a girl won't have these problems. I have been accused by my wife as, several times, of destroying friendships that we have with other couples because of the fact that I will want to talk to the women more than I talk to the man. So, and this makes the man think that I am trying to approach his wife, or something like that you know. And so maybe that's why they...well, after awhile we'll call up...you know, go out with such and such...and no, no, no. They just quit calling and so.


COUNSELOR: But like, for you it's more that like women are easier to talk to and like...I guess listen better. It's part of it.


PATIENT: Yeah, I just would rather talk to a female than a male of the species, that's all there is to it. They're also more enjoyable to look at. 


But up until the time I started this therapy, there was a tendency to try to seek out some female to talk to. And it wasn't really that important whether it was married or single. But it happens that most of our friends are married, so it usually turned out to be somebody's wife. And then for, maybe it's...then its true the fact that I've scared off friends because I was looking for somebody to confide in, talk to. 


In the last couple of months, no not the last couple of months...the last couple of weeks I'd say...this has assumed that role, and I tended to not try to find somebody that I can sit and talk to because I guess I feel that this, is taking that place. And I just wondered, like I say if this was considered in whenever the person to take this case was picked.


COUNSELOR: No, no. no. [41:55]


PATIENT: I was gonna say, if they did, thank you...if they didn't well that's -


COUNSELOR: You lucked out.


PATIENT: I lucked out. (chuckles) It's amazing how much can take place in a weeks time. The time I am here until the time I come back is a....to this very world, it seems like I can go through thinking about things that I've said, why I've said them...a sort of little self analyzation. 


Thinking about things that I want to say next time...being sure that I get the complete picture out here, you know, so I get ready to say, "Now here's the problem, here the problem...while I have you hold the picture", instead of just a crossword puzzle pf parts (inaudible background conversation at 42:53).


COUNSELOR: Hmm. I wonder if you're expecting that one of the these days now when we've got all the data out we'll sort of sit down, and I'll tell you what I think. Do you have something like that in mind?


PATIENT: Yeah, even though you told me that that's not going to be the way it is, it still is in the back of my mind. Maybe it won't come through to me, but that won't be the way it'll be. I think I still look at this sort of life as a course you take in school. There is going to be a final exam and that's the way that things are gonna happen. [43:36]


But, I can't quite see the fact that session number 20 was it? It was like, ok that's it, you're cured, goodbye. This just doesn't seem to be...that it's going to be that way for any length of time. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like, as soon as like...you can't help to be expecting it'll be more conclusive somehow.


PATIENT: Yeah, to be able to say - now here's the problem, there is the problem - here's the solution, there's the solution.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, so having it all laid out.


PATIENT: Laid out...I know you can't solve all the problems that come up, but their will be a majority of them maybe, that will be solved, that progress can be made on. 


This idea of the progress that I've made so far, it's comes from the Standpoint that I felt that I - after talking for a couple of sessions I realized that I felt that I had lost my masculinity, or something. In the last week or so I've been trying to grasp at this masculinity again. In a respected sense, but none-the-less I still attempted this idea.


COUNSELOR: How do you mean that?


PATIENT: You mean how do I feel that I've lost it? Or, how do I feel that I've regressed?


COUNSELOR: Regressing - is what I meant.


PATIENT: Well, I had...it seemed like up until about six months to a year ago - a certain amount of self pride, to the point where I was even egotistical at times, you know. I made a point of actually worshipping myself. Maybe thinking, I am fairly good looking and this, is reinforced every once in awhile you catch a girl kind of, taking a second glance at you and you know. Oh boy, there's got to be something there, she looked twice. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it really sets you off.


PATIENT: Like last night I came back and went to the fast food restaurant after we got out of church and we stopped at the fast food restaurant; I got out and went out to the window and stood in line. There was a couple of...three; no there was actually four girls over in this next line, and they couldn't have been more than 17 at the most, you know. Anywhere from say 13 to 17 and I was Standing there in line, not paying much attention to them and I see one of these girls nudge the other one. [46:38]


Do that you know, and there was two girls here and there was some guy and then there was two more girls, and I don't think they were together. And the first thing I see is another pair of girls...and one of them nudged the other one. 


Do that and my ego goes up a hundred points because...they may have been looking at the car behind me or something, but none-the-less to me it was they...One of them say, "Hey, look at that guy over there" you know. This appeals to guys everywhere. 


Like I say, maybe they were looking at the car behind me or the guy on the other side of me but -


COUNSELOR: But you suspect they were looking at you. 


PATIENT: Yeah, to me...they were looking at me. So it's just how egotistical I am, you guess you'd say. I think most people are. 


COUNSELOR: So that's kind of one way of grasping at your masculinity, like noticing that hey...


PATIENT: Like I said, it seemed that whole year or so ago I got to a point where I didn't notice, or maybe not care too much about things like this. This to me is a, I don't know it's just typical male. I like to be admired by the women as much as the women like to be admired by the men. So, this had just kind of taken a non-important position in my thinking, I guess you'd say.


Actually, I use it to build my ego and I think it is harmless to a certain extent. Like I say, I think most people indulge in it once in awhile. 


COUNSELOR: And it works...eh, it kind of makes you attractive and sexy and - [49:04]


PATIENT: Like I said earlier, there's some thought given to this: unless she doesn't want me to be number one, maybe there's somebody else around who does. You know this little - some girl winking at you, or giving you a second glance, something like that, tends to reinforce that idea. 


And it's just, like I said to my wife there one day ...there's this girl who comes to church, she comes by herself all the time, she's in our couples class and I've never seen her husband there. And in my way of thinking, as far as I can...I know that she's married and has six or seven kids the way I understand it. But as far as I can grasp in my thinking, she is not married. 


And one Sunday I was sitting across the room from her and she had a short skirt and I caught myself looking at her a couple/three times. And, later on I when I went to a...they have a little coffee clutch (ph) you might say after church, and you can get together. And I went to this, I don't know where my wife was right at the time...but anyway she wasn't with me. And this girl winked at me - and boy, like I said, the ego goes up a hundred points. 


And I mentioned it to my wife and she's, "Ah, she's already got six or seven kids, you know...she's just friendly." She's trying to downgrade it, and here to me it was very important, to her it was a...she says that she, does things like that and she doesn't really mean anything by it. To me, like I said, it was a great deal of importance. 


I have to, a lot of times, depend on her to keep me in line because...to me this was important that I wanted to go ahead and pursue it. Make more of it than maybe it was really meant to be.


COUNSELOR: Like, I guess you're saying that there...I suppose you didn't enjoy your wife having downgraded it, but still like, you kind of took what she said because like you thought maybe she was right that you were making too much out of it. [51:50]


PATIENT: Yeah, like I say...I'd rather make, in my mind had her say well, "Maybe she does have some kind of a feeling for you more than just friendship." Or something like that, but still it wouldn't have been. Well, I would have viewed it with as much animosity; I guess you'd say, of her reinforcing this as I would of her downgrading it. 


Right now, because of the fact that this to me...if she said, "Well maybe she has got a crush on you or something - maybe I got to see about this" would be her saying why don't you go ahead and pursue that so that I can go ahead pursue my outside interests. So, maybe I'd just as soon her ignore it and go on, rather than to encourage it or discourage it.


COUNSELOR: Do you mean like, maybe you just as soon see your wife with not anybody else? I don't think I got you...


PATIENT: I said, I think I'd just as soon her ignore this little, "hey so and so winked at me", and pass it off as not being important to her but not to try to downgrade it to me or encourage it - either one. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I see. [53:31]


PATIENT: Because, like I said, if she would encourage me to pursue this thing and then I would be stepping out on a limb, I know, and if she discourages it every time it downgrades my ego, like you said so.


Sometimes I think this idea of us being completely frank with each other is the best idea I ever thought, and we are having little secrets from each other, as much as I have said otherwise.


COUNSELOR: You mean like, because when you're frank with her there are too many ways for her to botch it up? I was thinking of the girl who winked -


PATIENT: It seems like when I'm frank with her, she's overly frank with me. 


COUNSELOR: Hmm, sometimes she tells you more than you want to hear.


PATIENT: Yeah. A little girl in school, the subject of elephants came up one day. So afterward, why she showed a great deal of interest in these elephants and the teacher called her up and said...she gave her a 200 page book about elephants.


The little girl took it home, brought it back the next day and the teacher said, ["Why did you leave it here."] (ph) The little girl says, "Well I don't want it. It's telling me more about elephants than I want to know."


So she was telling me more than I really want to know about things. I say about six months ago we came to the understanding that she would tell me everything and I would tell her everything, and I still have my doubts. [55:48]


COUNSELOR: What's everything? Or did you mean you had doubts whether that's a good idea?


PATIENT: Well, both. I doubt that she's telling me everything sometimes and like I say, maybe it's not the best idea. 


We look at these friends of ours; we have one couple there that she has a boyfriend that her husband doesn't know anything about. He has a girlfriend or two that she doesn't know anything about - and yet we know about both situations. 


It's kind of humorous and yet it's pathetic. When you try to talk to either one of them about it, "Well, I don't want to know about him. I'd rather live in my own little dream world", and he feels that she's absolutely true to him, you know, and yet he's not true to her and then vice versa. It's just, to us it seems like a mixed up situation. 


COUNSELOR: I guess that means, like not talking at all isn't any solution either.


PATIENT: And yet talking can make more problems than it sometimes solves. 


COUNSELOR: I guess we should be quitting for today.


PATIENT: See I don't work Friday, so could we make it say Thursday? Would that be -


COUNSELOR: Is Wednesday alright for you?


PATIENT: Yeah, Wednesday would be alright. I was thinking I might have to go out of town, but it doesn't look like it now. So what time Wednesday?


COUNSELOR: Ah, 2:30?


PATIENT: 2:30 to 3:30. Ok.


COUNSELOR: Ok. [57:54]


COUNSELOR: Bye. 


PATIENT: Howdy. 


COUNSELOR: This is the end of the hour with the research client. The rest of the stuff on this...this section till the end of the tape is recorded on this tape by mistake. There's no more research client after this point, on this tape, this track. 


END TRANSCRIPT
