TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Aren't you glad you were running a little bit late? 'Cause I was running late.
THERAPIST: [Laughs]
CLIENT: So... today... one of the things we had to do... I don't know if we... so there is a working group... at the library... to bring [inaudible... strong?] ways to use in the escapes tables that are for instruction. And... I asked to be on it mostly because no one else really uses them and I wanted to find out what they were going to make me do.
THERAPIST: [Laughs]
CLIENT: [Laughs] Like you don't wanna just be there for that.
THERAPIST: Right...
[00:01:00]
CLIENT: Is it interesting...
THERAPIST: Was throwing it out the window so they would stop distracting people one of the...
CLIENT: Sadly no. And in the group is when Maria... is one of the people who... okay, like... ignored, like... what our students actually wanted... in through the games tables. So that's always a little awkward. And Chet's on that group too. So... today like we had an open house. I guess they've done two open house like... drop in sessions. And a couple of people wandered by. And... so it's kind of I don't know... if it's depressing or I mean... mostly... [pause] I find these sessions... [inaudible] I want to say frustrating... because [inaudible] I feel like it's like if you're trying this hard to get people to use it maybe it was a bad choice. And... so... I had [inaudible] working group she'd sort of do... five challenges... like five things that make [iinaudible] challenging... and then solutions. And so people look at them... and... they don't necessarily understand, like, what we're saying. Like, are they challenges? And then, often the response is like, "Oh, well, can't you just do x?" Like, nope, you can't. Like, that thing you want to do you can't do. And... so then this one guy and I spent like ten minutes just trying to get the audio to work...
[00:02:53]
THERAPIST: Mmm Hmm
CLIENT: ...which was frustrating. And he's like "Well, why don't you do this?" and "Why not this?" I'm like yeah, well, that's not how this room is set up. So, no, I can't use the HDMI cable. No I can't use that other core 'cause it won't work with computers. You know... Yes, you have to run it through this and that. I'm just...
THERAPIST: Yep
CLIENT: And... and, you know... I'm mean for a while I was trying to not just say this room is really unreliable. But... because IT really really didn't want me to say that. Actually, no one wanted me to say that. But... in the interest of sort of... when I was doing that the thing I found is that people... when people ran into a problem that they would... I knew they were going to have... they would get really upset and flustered and freak out... 'cause like "why isn't this working?" And so now I just tell them, "It might not work. Come early...
[00:03:55]
THERAPIST: Mmm Hmm
CLIENT: ... Try it at least twice, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: [pause] And it was funny because some people... some of the people during the open house were looking at me kind of confused. They're like, "Well, I haven't had that happen." It's like well, the more... like, I've used this room more than anyone else has... [pause] and [inaudible] things happen... [pause, sighs] It just, I was super anxious, like, and worried beforehand. My stomach was just hurting. So... I cleverly [inaudible] remembered that pause] I had valium. And I just took that and felt a lot better.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: So just...
THERAPIST: And that helped?
CLIENT: It did. It was good. Chet also tend to not... like tends to always leave these sessions early and be me too like [pause] do things.
[00:04:54]
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: He's also listed as one of the tech experts even though he's not, which is annoying. But I'm kind of like whatever. I don't [pause] And so Michael Humitt over at the business school bought one of these tables.
THERAPIST: Michael Humitt down at the business school?
CLIENT: Yeah... yeah, over there. And it's great 'cause he e-mailed, myself including people saying like, "What are your opinions [inaudible] table?" And I was like, "These are all the reasons why. It's horrible." And his response was, "Great, we'll order one." That's really obnoxious, and [inaudible] so but ok. And the vendor installing it—the salesperson was encouraging people in the business school to come over to see our tables. But they only installed a single one, so actually it doesn't [pause] like our set up is four tables linked together. Theirs is a single solitary table. So I'm kinda like, "It's not very useful for you, but ok"
[00:06:00]
THERAPIST: Uh huh
CLIENT: And then everyone... and then I also [pause] ran through all, like all the problems of it. And they were just staring at me going... and they're like, "Well, why did we? What?" [pause]
THERAPIST: What are these things supposed to do?
CLIENT: [sighs] So...
THERAPIST: I mean, I didn't realize how I had to hear it, I just...
[00:06:26]
CLIENT: No, no. It's just when I sigh, it just frustrates me a lot. The... what they're supposed to do, it's supposed to be an individual table that a group of people would do group work at. So, you have up to six laptops hooked up to this physical system and there are two monitors at one end of the table. So instead of people like standing behind one person's laptop, you can just put the laptop on the monitor. You can send the laptop to the monitors. And you could send... like I could send my website to one monitor you could send your paper to another monitor. So we can see them side by side. And the idea is that... in the [inaudible] what they... they promote it as... avoiding laptops happening... like workers huddled around the laptop... or avoid having everyone like tell one person to type... or like click here click here click here. And that's the idea that... and they're... intended to be used as a single table. And they actually sell a bunch of privacy screens to help separate off your table from the rest of the space. So... that's what it's supposed to do. And it's like... it's mechanical electric VGA adapters. And because it's all VGA...
[00:07:52]
THERAPIST: Like as opposed to something wireless?
CLIENT: So it has to plug into your computer's display adapter or monitor port. So Macs don't use VGA and never have so all Mac users need adapters. And you know the Mac settings is a pain.
THERAPIST: But nobody in a Mac [inaudible] setting a Mac though.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's great.
THERAPIST: Nobody's [inaudible]
CLIENT: And, also for PCs they currently... they all have VGA. But prob... they definitely in two years that won't be true anymore. So... [pause] it's gonna be obsolete. Like, you can pay them a ton of money to retrofit.. to pull out the VGA and put in new adapters [pause] at some point. But they're... they haven't done it yet. So there's that. Or you can buy a ton of whatever the new system will be adapters. And so at every table will be having three different Mac adapters locked down because there's so many... [pause] like you know how Macs like love to have different proprietary [pause] connectors?
[00:09:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So different proprietary connectors. So those are all there. And... [pause] it's super frustrating. And this other one's a way to basically physically attach the adapters to the table so they wouldn't get stolen. Which took a while. [sigh] So the way... it does look impressive. People always go, "oh" when they walk in and look at it. [pause] Most of the students use it as a table. They don't use the monitors, [pause] It's [inaudible] clear to me if they even know how. I suggested we get table tents or table signs explaining how. But that was vetoed as too like cluttered, distracting. But then someone was like, "Oh no, we should have a digital sign on one of the posts explaining it. And..."
[00:10:09]
THERAPIST: Need to get another table and have the screens on that table.
CLIENT: I know... see one of my iPad and a mount at a sign.
THERAPIST: [Laughs]
CLIENT: And so then she pulled one of the students [inaudible]...
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, I'm just indulging here. But there would be something fitting about it wouldn't there? It's like...
CLIENT: Oh yeah!
THERAPIST: Like.. the more ridiculous... it would be iconic of the whole... sorry
CLIENT: Yeah, no. Actually when someone suggested this I had a moment of being like "Oh yeah, no we should get an iPad stand. Maybe one with an arm this way." And then I thought 'no' because I'm going to have to deal with it. And I don't want to.
[00:10:54]
THERAPIST: Sorry, no. I mean... have the sign be overpriced, unnecessarily wizzy. And essentially pretty useless aside from just having some [inaudible] paper due.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which seems fitting for something like a media scape table which is sort of the same in being this overpriced thing that could be replaced by a few laptops.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh yeah. Or... you know a hundred dollar converter box.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I also thought it was interesting that when we were discussing documentation several people were like, "Oh but it has to look cool." Like that was their primary interest. Not 'Is it functional?' 'Is it easy to use?' but 'It has to be cool.' So... [pause] and of course those people were suggesting this were also the most tech illiterate people. So they didn't even know what they wanted other than cool.
[00:12:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which is also [inaudible] people that don't use technology are the people who ran the specs for this and decided what they wanted.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And the other problem... thing I have to tell everyone which... are some of the things they want to do they can't. So there are two monitors per table and everyone says, "Ok, how do I show two things on this monitor?" And the answer is you can't. [laughs] 'Cause people want to show one thing on the left monitor and one thing on the right monitor. And you can't do that. And there's nowhere for these... there's not a designated spot for the structure to stand. And there's no place where you can stand where your back is not to people. So wherever you stand, you're going to have... your back just to people. So from a strict point of view it's pretty annoying... Yep.
[00:13:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And you know the tables aren't adjustable height. I'm almost positive that they're not ADA compliant at all. I mean they're just like stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean it's like a combination of exercise in frustration and making me feel really depressed because you know I feel like we're trying [inaudible] after that. Or... putting all this energy into something that's just... because no one wants to admit that they made the wrong choice. That's sort of where we're stuck. It's at some higher level people don't want to say that they made a mistake. And they... you know... I'm sure you didn't want to admit that you made... [inaudible] expense this big. So on the other hand, the fact that they lost the teaching room. So... someone came in and was talking to me about using the room for teaching. And I started running it through with her and she just looked more and more terrified. Like... I'm sorry! But it's true. I was looking at the other teaching space. It's very much... you walk in, turn on a computer, you're ready to go. And you can show different things on two screens. And so those people have expectation and they just don't get that. And also in that movie [inaudible] oh it was kind of teen spot. They're like yes, you need to... no one's used it in three years? And I said well why are we still paying for license? I don't know. Well that's stupid. And I'm like 'yes it is.' So it just becomes this discussion of things that are stupid and frustrating.
[ [00:15:07]
A lot of different business schools [have been] (ph) talking to me. And she just had this look of, "Why?" Like, why am I doing this? Why did we buy it? No one knows.
I think they might try to do another open house in there. [I don't know] (ph), like, the open houses just aren't (pause)—(sighs) I'm at the point where ?I don't understand why people are still suggesting it, because I think everyone knows it's there. And the open house (pause) is unlikely to convince you that it's awesome. Like, I think people (ph) would be more impressed if they just stuck their head in to the room and see these things, than if they tried to use it. So there's that. [00:16:22]
And the other—so related, but (pause) I was talking to Chet about the participatory design workshop that I go to. And he knows (inaudible at 16:39) done. And so he's like, "Oh, so do you know (ph) -" And I think that at the end, we were talking about it and I said, "You know what, unfortunately I don't see any of this happening [in a hurry] (ph)." And Chet's like, "No, but blah blah blah blah." And (inaudible at 17:01) is a perfect example of that being ignored. Like, they did it just for a design. They have this, you know, awesome list of things and it was completely ignored in the paper by something Nancy. And Chet's also invested in (pause) not saying that the media (inaudible at 17:26) suck. Like, not even to me. Mostly because he never has to deal with them. Like, I always get stuck with it.
So, [in some areas] (ph) we talked a little bit about that and his whole thing is like, "No, you should just try it. Maybe this time will be different." You don't know, which is I think (inaudible at 17:56) because we act naive and just (pause), like, it's such an obvious false statement that I find it frustrating that he's been saying that to me. And the new thing, which he started doing in this meeting was (pause) to say that I don't want to do a project unless all of my recommendations are made or are taken. So, for instance I said, like, I was saying (inaudible at 18:40) really frustrating that all recommendations (ph) were ignored. And he's like, "No no no, they were considered, but they just made a different decision."
And I was like, that doesn't fit any timeline of what was ordered or when. Like, that's not possible. And I talked about my colleague (inaudible at 19:01) quit. And just the process of well, so you're upset they didn't do what you wanted, which—well, sort of. But (pause), like, I didn't expect that anyone would listen to, like, the laundry list of things I hate about it, but I did want some kind of, like, "Oh, we looked at this and we're not doing it for this reason." Or, "We decided that that's not important and what's more important is this." And it's never gotten that. I, like, when I've written up recommendations, I don't feel like anyone reads them. Like, I really don't.
And so, [kind of pausing in the area] (ph) for (pause)—like, I don't want to spend months working on a project to have it be canned at the last minute. I don't want to spend months working on a project and have the project, like, everything I came up with ignored. [00:20:15] His response is, "I'm hearing you say that you don't want to work on something if they don't everything you want," which is not what I said. And like, yeah, it'd be awesome if that was true but, like, (pause) I don't know, I'm not invested in having my, like, dream from (ph) created. The things I'm invested in are, like, it working. (sighs)
I don't know, I just (inaudible at 20:59) like is Chet kind of gaslighting me on this. Is, like—I don't know. Like, it felt like he was trying to cast me (pause) in that particular way, like this is ego driven, it's all about, like, I just want everyone to do what I say. I don't know, like, (pause) I guess it felt like he was blaming me for (pause)—I don't know, I just felt like, sort of like, it's my own musing (ph), things are my fault, in a weird way?
THERAPIST: Chet came across to me like he was saying that (pause) you were being (pause) kind of selfish, inflexible and unreasonable (pause) by insisting that if people aren't going to do things in all the ways you want them to be done, you want to take your toys (ph) to home. [00:22:22]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's—yeah, like, what he was saying.
THERAPIST: And (pause) it sounds to me like you're (inaudible at 22:36) is that (pause)—a little unclear, but it sounds like you are wanting some, like, real responsiveness of some sort or communication, even if (pause) disagreement or (pause) most or all of your recommendations are not, like, acted on? That at the very least, somebody come on and say, "Well, we thought about this, but we decided on that."
CLIENT: Yeah, like—I mean, sort of like...
THERAPIST: I'm not sure how much—I guess something (ph) I'm unclear about is how much you're saying you also would like to be to (inaudible at 23:27) to have some input. Like, if you write ten things, maybe they do two, you know, or whether you're saying you want them to (pause) communicate to you how they have taken seriously what you have recommended, whether they (inaudible at 23:49) or not.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, like, the things I want or sort of, like, acknowledgement that I did something and, like, I came over with these recommendations and that, like, (inaudible at 24:05). And then, [some indication] (ph) of, "We looked at that thing you did and we decided not to do it for reasons," and not a (inaudible at 24:21)
THERAPIST: Right. Like, if somebody came along and said, "Look, Karen, we looked at your recommendations (inaudible at 24:28) and, you know, in fact, we feel like it's really important that we have some very new cutting edge technology in here and we understand that there are still, you know, bugs or limitations in the functionality of these things or reasons they won't work, but just as a kind of symbol of how we're so progressive with technology, we think it's important for these to be here." Like, that might seem ridiculous in a lot of ways, but at least it's a sort of considered response or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's one of the things I think that makes me really mad and frustrated, is that (pause) they're sort of (pause)—there's no, like, acknowledgement of concrete problems with the technology or—like, it's very clear, like, why they bought it. [00:25:39] Like, I think it's clear to everyone. Like, they happened to have some money and they wanted to make a swatch. So just saying that would be great. Or (pause), you know, like basically you sort of—any kind of communication would've been nice. I mean, more generally, I happen to find it really both frustrating and stupid when no one asks the people who are going to use the system what they think about it. (laughter) You know, that's happened a lot.
And also for me, like, explaining to people, because people always ask me, like, "Well, but why?" you know. Why is it so flaky? Why doesn't (ph) it do this? [00:26:47] And then I, you know, my choice is, like, I'm sort of like, "Well, I can explain it to you," or I could just say (ph), "No, isn't this awesome?" Or I could kind of get (ph), "Well, that's just how it works." Like, there are a lot of options. And generally speaking, we, like, pretty much every other technology and software that we've had to shove down someone's throat, I told them why. You know, like, everyone hated Outlook when it came in. And I [talked them into] (ph) telling people about why.
And I also would say, like, I don't like either. I comply, that's what we have to do now. And I really have nothing to say to the "but why." You know, like, I just think the response I've gotten the most is, "Well, this is a great opportunity to innovate new (ph) teaching methods and, you know, we should view this as, like, a positive challenge," or, "Well, staff needs to stop being so resistance to technology and embrace new awesome technology." [00:28:22] And I really hate the staff are resistance to technology answer, because I think it's unnecessarily combative and it makes it staff versus—like, it sends out a staff versus management division, where staff are resistant and not tech aware and, like, lazy or something, and management is awesome and tech savvy, when the management team is not tech savvy particularly. (laughter) So, yeah.
And also, I think like the need to find new ways to innovate in teaching. (inaudible at 29:33) really empty statement. Like, there's no support for staff to find ways to do it. Like, basically we're throwing them in the room and saying, "Figure it out." So, I find it, like, I think it's an impossible expectation. (pause) And for me it also highlights, I don't know, I think of these moments where I really feel, like, how I am at the bottom of the totem pole in my department. (pause) It's like, I don't know, it's just (inaudible at 30:31) hour and a half like feeling like I am explaining all these things I have no control over. Whatever I say is not going to—like, whatever I say doesn't matter. (pause) And, you know, like, not only does whatever I say not matter to sort of, like, theoretical peers like other librarians, it also doesn't matter to—like, I don't think it matters to anyone.
THERAPIST: Like a huge problem that couldn't be more evident to you, but that (pause) nobody will listen to you about at all?
CLIENT: Yeah. And even, like, Chet—I think Chet's response is basically I'm being, you know, stubborn or (inaudible at 31:45) and all these things. And I am in fact stubborn and can be really (inaudible at 31:53). (laughter) Like, I'm totally aware of that, but (laughter) in this case, to say that I am trying to block technology or innovation or whatever is really weird. Like, dead (ph) wrong. But, like, also I'm like, well, if I am (inaudible at 32:16) technology person and that's my job, like, why can't I do that? So Chet started saying, like, I'm being unreasonable and stubborn. (Karl) can't form coherent sentences, so God only knows, but his response is, "Well, you should talk to Chet," or, "Well, we thought about that and," like, he will (ph) just kind of say, like, things like, "That was already considered." I'm like, "What?" I don't know. It's (sighs) when he says, like, that was already considered, I have no confidence that it was.
And also, (Karl) sucks at using technology. Like, (inaudible at 33:19) he has me hook up a laptop to the AP system and launch PowerPoint, because he has problems doing that. So (pause) I'm like, if you can't launch PowerPoint, I'm not really sure how (pause) are you able to make, like—you don't have to be an IT to be able to make, like, an intelligent statement about technology, but if you can't do basic functions, I'm not really sure where this is going or why I'm listening to you, but you're not listening to me.
And (pause) the HR department is dissolving. Like, part of our HR department's dissolving and they can't tell me who I'm supposed to talk to in FAS personnel. So, there's that.
THERAPIST: You know, there's such a two-sided thing where on the one hand, like, (pause) it's so (pause) clear, I guess, (pause) how incompetent these people are at—at least it sounds like at what they're doing and the others do. And at the same time, sort of on the side, you're so sort of powerless [and sort of cutely] (ph) on the sort of bottom part of the totem pole. It's just the contrast sort of strikes me (inaudible at 35:15) or the other. And (pause) I'm not quite sure what to say about it, it just struck me.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's also one of those...
THERAPIST: Maybe, like—sorry I did have another half thought about it, but it only occurred to me after I stopped talking, which was, like, maybe it can be a bit of a salve (ph) for your helplessness and (pause)—or not being listened to at all. Or it can sort of substitute frustration for a sense of, like, helplessness and upset, which doesn't sound like much comfort particularly, but may feel a little better, I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's—(pause) I guess (inaudible at 36:31), like, trying to talk honestly about, like, any of the sort of pathological things. I end up feeling a little bit, like, if I say something negative, I feel a little bit like am I a kid acting out to get attention, [in a way] (ph)? To think there's, like, that position of helplessness and [no agency] (ph).
(silence)
THERAPIST: When I say that a kid is acting out to get attention, which sounds pejorative. (ph) [I meant to say] is a kid who's being totally ignored is acting out so somebody will pay attention (inaudible at 37:34)?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, like, I do often think, like, I would really like someone to pay attention to what I'm doing or saying, and I'm just not getting that. Like, I think—well, I mean, discovering that I (inaudible at 38:04) I have, like, a lot more now. (pause) But also, like, (pause) I think part, I mean, I think (Karl) is a big part of what drives me so crazy, because he seems to have no idea what I do and described a lot of it to Chet and (pause), like, it's really frustrating. Because, you know, I've been here for a while. I would have think you could maybe have figured it out by now, asked Chet, read my job description, et cetera. [00:39:08]
And when I talk to him, I just (pause)—I mean, yeah, I have the sense that he cares or, like, it gears up that he's particularly listening or taking it in and he doesn't seem to feel like (p) any of this is sort of his responsibility to deal with.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Like, I think it's a terrible thing in itself, but also I think that in with your own feeling at times that (pause)—(inaudible at 40:29) you have to say or maybe there's you don't realize about it, how it (inaudible at 40:38) or something like that. I'm not saying you're projecting what's going on under (ph) him, I'm just saying.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's very—I mean, it's (inaudible at 40:49) kind of a cipher, because he seems to have tended to make stuff up when flustered and just has a hard time communicating anything. So, like, we had a staff meeting yesterday and, like, I really couldn't tell you what it was about. And at one point he was going on about, but never really explained, like, someone had come from another library to ours to ask a question or something, and it was incredibly inappropriate of that person to do so. And then also, people were making up responses when they should be looking at the order (ph) chart to see who is actually (ph) responsible. But, like, I don't actually know what happened. I (inaudible at 41:55) happened, because he was like, "Oh, [this is] irrelevant, but this person should've done that and this."
And it was just really weird. And also, he was—kind of like he was talking to himself in an [older room] (ph). So (pause) yeah, it's—I mean, he's—like, [I feel like] (ph) (Karl)'s really incompetent in a lot of ways at what he's doing. Like, he has things that he has competent at—this is not it. And (pause) it's also a situation of, like, no one working in the building respects him, except for Chet, I think. So (pause) it's a really difficult situation to be in, where, like, you know, there's immediate and just, like, developing (ph) staff. No one respects him and yet he has all this control, but he also insists he doesn't, which is super frustrating. [00:43:42]
And (pause) I don't know. I mean, it kind of feels like (sighs)—I mean, A, with the reorg it's just really unclear who you're supposed to talk to about things. And the order (ph) charts do not help at all. And it doesn't feel like there's anyone to help understand what's going on. Like, (pause) (inaudible at 44:26) happens all the time. Someone's like, "So, I need this thing done and I used to ask this person—who do I ask now?" And we're all like, I don't know. And with IT, we're sort of running into the problem of people are used to us just fixing things or giving them new equipment and now probably half the people we have to start asking for a billing code, (pause) which they may not even know what their billing code. Like, God only knows. (laughter)
So the staff had also—(inaudible at 45:08) things, but also it's, like, really unclear we should make these decisions and how and, like, you know, we were talking about whether someone can get a printer. And it was, like, a ten minute discussion of how to delicately let them know that they have to pay for it. Like, we'll install it, but they have to pay for it. But maybe we have extra. We don't want to just give them the extra unless it's a bad precedent. And, like, to me, I'm like, that's crazy. And also, (pause) I feel like why am I the person telling them, "Give me a billing code," because if they ask why, I have nothing to say. I just sort of (inaudible at 46:09) and [I often even] (ph), like, the Head of IT doesn't really even have a good answer for that.
So, like (sighs)...
THERAPIST: Incredibly frustrating.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's just in so many weird ways...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 46:26) dysfunctional feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 46:28) for now.
CLIENT: OK. [Oh, we are meeting] (ph) Monday earlier?
THERAPIST: Right.
(background noise, inaudible conversation)
END TRANSCRIPT
