TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client 0324-006, Interview Number 6, November the 3rd, 1970, Client 0324-006, Interview Number 6, November the 3rd.


UNKNOWN SPEAKER: Can I bring you out some hot tea?


COUNSELOR: In case you might not want some, coffee?


PATIENT: Coffee would be very nice. 


I was talking a friend of mine the other day just about therapy in general. He had just started in therapy with somebody that a gentleman had recommended. I guess we were just both trying to decide what in the heck we intended to get out of it And I was saying I was discouraged as to whether I would be getting anything out of it at all, and he said I should stick with it for a while and find out.


So anyway, I guess I was just generally complaining that I didn't feel like I was getting any feedback and he said I should tell you what (inaudible at 1:38) tell me.


COUNSELOR: You'll have to tell me what you mean by feedback but it sounds like (inaudible at 1:44).


PATIENT: Yeah. [1:44]


COUNSELOR: Or what  - 


PATIENT: Just generally that - I mean I know that I've got to work things out for myself, and I don't like the idea of some psychiatrist coming in and telling me, you know, okay, this is your problem, this is what you should do, and things like that. But it's like on the other hand, I really don't know what to focus on and kind of where to head, or if what I'm focusing on is just really trivial and is kind of glossing over maybe some more realistic kinds of things, or just how realistic I'm being. And, I don't know, just how much things that I'm saying or thinking about are just really inane, kind of. 


COUNSELOR: Inane, inane; meaningless, do you mean there?


PATIENT: Stupid means sort of connotation.


COUNSELOR: Are you not telling me what you mean by feedback, or is this partly  - 


PATIENT: Partly what I mean, yeah.


Okay, I don't know. This guy had sort of come away from his sessions. He said he 


just - that his therapist had been similarly - pretty similarly client-centered, though he hadn't even called himself that. But that he really sort of got this guy thinking, you know, kind of looking at himself as he hadn't and as he hadn't wanted to and as he needed to. And I kind of feel like I need to do that, but I kind of don't know how. [4:27]


COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.


PATIENT: And I also kind of feel like I can get away with not doing it here. 


COUNSELOR: Okay, so as far as I'm getting it - I'm going to be - I guess I'm going to seem to - very dogged. You know, when things like this come up I feel very dogged about it, because I really want to know everything that you mean, so forgive me if I go really slowly or act like I'm pinning you down.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: As I'm hearing it so far, you - well, the thing that I get out of what you're saying is I guess it sounds like you feel like you're floundering in some way; that you have some sense that, if left to yourself, you're going to - you're not going to be able to choose what's really the most relevant to talk about. And I also heard attention (ph) and you might be - you might be kind of fooling around and getting away with that. And I guess that - I hear that kind of concern. One thing I'm wondering about is do you have a feeling that I kind of know and I'm not telling you?


PATIENT: No, no.


COUNSELOR: You don't.


PATIENT: No, I'm not saying that at all.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. 


PATIENT: Or I'm just saying I don't know, and that I guess I need some help in getting there and I don't know if you can give it to me. [5:58] 


COUNSELOR: And how do I view what that help would be like, how the sessions would be different or how  - 


PATIENT: I don't. I mean in some sense that is more structured on your part, but not a great deal. I mean in some sense - feedback in its general sense, but I couldn't give you the specific example of how I mean it, because I can imagine several ways, and I guess I mean any of those ways.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, can you enumerate them for me? Because like there's ones about, for me, like my opinion about what you're saying, my opinion about how you come across, my opinion about what's stupid in that or what you're trapping yourself into and that.


PATIENT: Just things like that. And I mean kind of, well, say like somewhat pinning me down more as to what's going on and why it's going on.


COUNSELOR: Here, or outside?


PATIENT: In me. Rather than letting me get away with just rambling kind of from one vague thought to another.


COUNSELOR: One thing I'm hearing is I know in one sense that it's very frustrating just from sitting in that chair. It can be very frustrating to feel yourself rambling; I really hear that and can resonate with it. Another thing I'm hearing though, too, is that some sense of - real sense of distrusting in your own - what you want to do in here. It's like you've used the word getting away with and stuff. It's like I really get the sense like you have the feeling, despite yourself, you're going to end up wasting your time. [8:10]


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And you have no way of knowing how that is happening or something.


PATIENT: I don't know how to avoid it. Some sense that I got with this was just talking with my roommate very spontaneously Thursday night at 4 o'clock in the morning or something like that, when she was having a problem with a friend of hers and trying to figure out how to get across to him. And in the process of trying to tell her how to be a therapist to him, we sort of just got into talking about how people came across to other people and how people are really down sometimes. And like I heard that by now finally the guy that she was trying to get across to was like really, really down and really not caring about anything, which is just how I felt at that time.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Well now, I want to break in here. So far what you've said previous to this has made it sound kind of like an impersonal kind of thing, and not in a bad way, but it's like part of it is a matter of activity. But now what I'm wondering about is like if there's something more like how it is that I am, [whoops, slipped off] (ph), if there's something that you see about or is that experience of identifying with that guy and realizing what you want made you aware of some lack in here.


PATIENT: It wasn't the - I was going on to say it wasn't the experience of identifying with the guy as much as it was the fact that, by identifying with that guy, I ended up getting some feedback from that girl about what she thought was going on with that guy and what I thought was going on with that guy and at the same time what I thought was going on with me; and getting some feedback from her on what she felt about that and generally what she would accept and what she wouldn't accept in what I was saying, how much made sense and how much didn't. And I didn't accept what she said completely, but it made me think about some of the mistakes that I was making. [10:10]


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Sort of broadly and that's sort of taken for granted about me.


COUNSELOR: Okay. I guess I have, I think, three responses. Let's see if I can get them all out. One is it sounds like you're saying that experience gave you some sense of grasping onto something, being able to turn around and look at it, and to say this part makes sense, this part doesn't make sense. There was something a little more palpable about it. And it wasn't that you learned anything terrifically true or not true, but you had more of a sense of doing something with yourself.


PATIENT: I had more a sense of how I was coming across and sort of reflecting myself back against something rather than letting myself sort of drift off into nothingness, which is kind of how I feel here. 


COUNSELOR: Okay. Does that mean that you don't have much of a sense of how you hit me.


PATIENT: Hmm-um, I don't.


COUNSELOR: Let me see, what was the second thing? Yeah, somewhat parallel I think to what you've been saying; like I've been having the feeling that - I don't know if this is true for everybody, but for me there's a distinct faith (ph) of getting to know my client and vice versa. And because I'm not very good at beginnings, like there's a certain amount of distance, and I've also been having the feeling like okay - I think I had it particularly last time. I don't know if that was that way for you - but I had the feeling of being back a little bit and like it was time, I hoped, for us to sort of get together more, I don't know what that says except that I'm kind of feeling something similar. And I don't exactly know how it's going to go from now, and I don't know if whatever I do you're going to like or anything, but I really want you to keep saying this kind of thing, because it's really important. [12:15]


PATIENT: Well, that's kind of what I wanted to do was... I had a very strange tone in it, just of really highs and lows since last Thursday. Like I went camping this weekend, which was pure escape, and I'm really glad I did it. It was like pure hell because it poured rain and I froze and everything else. And I was petrified, because I didn't get there until dark and there were all sorts of lights in the woods. But it was like a really a cleansing kind of an experience. It was like I just went with my dog and we were just completely alone in these woods with nobody else around except whoever owned those lights and I wasn't about to find out about it. 


And I don't know, all of a sudden it's like everything else - I don't know if it was because for once I wasn't comparing myself with other people and seeing how inadequate I was compared to them or what. But somehow it was just so great just to be alive right there. In fact I really got scared a few times because like I almost fell down this really high block and like I realized it suddenly dawned on me that it was really stupid to be careless, because there was nobody else around if I broke a leg or something like that. They might not come by for weeks. And it's like I have to really care (inaudible at 14:08) and it's like it's very strange because it's just like I've discovered (inaudible at 14:16) really can't afford it. 


COUNSELOR: Feel afraid.


PATIENT: I'm feeling somewhat depressed, yeah, that - I mean it wasn't a front (ph) you know, it was just a - it was a very literal kind of afraid. It was like I'm afraid, okay, use your head and nothing will happen. And it was kind of succeeding against the elements and like walking this really long way down this beach that wasn't a beach because the waves kept taking up the whole thing. It was just - it was really, really marvelous. And somehow I just felt so free and so able to do anything at all, and like I was able to face it even back here without any problem. 


And all of these people that I had mentioned before that I couldn't write to, it's like I really - I wanted to go ride home and write to them. Like I only stayed one night, because everything was wet and I didn't dare stay another night. I also didn't need to, because I had sort of gotten everything out that I wanted to. And sounds like you're thinking, you know, I knew damn well it wasn't going to last, but I wanted so much for it to last and I just kind of was sort of hanging on and hoping it would last. 


So I got back home, which (inaudible at 15:45) was all tired anyway. And I guess then after all that night my boyfriend came over and he was really kind of bad; like I was really trying to tell him what had happened, just how I felt, because it was really important to me, that, you know, I didn't feel like killing myself and I didn't - I don't remember what all the thoughts were, but just that it felt so really good to be really, really free and really alive and really able to face things and to stand on my own two feet kind of and to, you know, gotten away and kind of not needed him, and he sort of fell asleep while I was talking which wasn't too cool. [16:43]


And then at that night it didn't bother me, but by the next day I was sort of coming out of it. I had really ended up just sort of drifting back. And by Monday - I guess I sort of wanted all the next day just to talk to my boyfriend, just plain talk, and he just didn't want to. And kind of on Friday night when I drove home I just didn't care anymore and I'm just completely back to just feeling suicidal. Not completely, but you know, just having the feelings there again and not liking it.


COUNSELOR: Or that it's not liking him (inaudible at 17:29).


PATIENT: Whereas the day before it's like I didn't know what they were, I didn't know what they felt like, because I felt so good. And I just want so badly to know how to keep feeling good and, you know, just be able to just start living my life of my own that I'm really happy with. I mean, have it stay there. [18:08]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, what I'm hearing very strongly there is it's not only having a life of your own, but having a life that it makes some - well, so that you may be able to feel a range of things, but that you haven't lost the whole show and you begin to feel bad. That's what I'm hearing, like. It's really like two systems. I'm always intrigued by this writer, Angyal. Have you ever read any - it's someone they give you in personality theory courses. Otherwise I would never have  - 


PATIENT: Oh yeah. I was spelling it differently.


COUNSELOR: And he wrote this one chapter called - somewhere it's called the Universal Ambiguity; and that really spoke to me about how people live in two systems, one is neurotic and one is healthy, and it's an interesting notion and I have feelings that correspond to that. 


PATIENT: (Inaudible at 19:02) it sound like it. 


COUNSELOR: Really it sounded like you were saying - or my image was that when you began to feel bad, you had no idea about what it was like to feel good, nothing to grab onto, no way out. And when you were feeling good, it was like those feelings were very - the other feelings were very alien to you, but you have no trust that they won't become all too familiar again.


PATIENT: Yeah. My roommate and I, when I started talking about just being really down, she indicated that they'd been really down one time and would start quoting things like the necessity of all this and stuff, like the prophet and stuff and how you had to have sorrow to really experience joy and stuff like that. [19:57] 


And I should have said yeah, I understood that, and that wasn't my problem. In fact, somehow joy and pain and happiness and sadness were all like, instead of in two separate words were all one world, and mainly that you in a sense had to know sadness before you could really experience happiness, or you had to know some kind of pain before you could experience really pleasure, or that they were related anyway. 


But the opposite that was really bothering me was the absence of all feeling; it was just nothingness and complete apathy or complete not caring. And like to me, both pleasure and pain are parts of being alive, fantastic parts of being alive. And it's very easy to end both of them, and that's what I'm fighting against. [21:05]


It's like I can really stand either one. It's the really not caring about anything and just not wanting to get up in the morning kind of thing, which I didn't do on Monday. I slept like until 1 o'clock in the afternoon and didn't go to work because I knew I would be so out of it that I wouldn't be able to relate to anybody there. There was nothing pressing that I had to do. I just thought, well, maybe if I stay at home for a day without my boyfriend I can get myself back together, which I did.


COUNSELOR: What did that mean?


PATIENT: This was related to like - like I didn't want to do anything Monday morning because I was just really so down and that's real - like when you're really upset you can do things and when you're really happy you can do things, but when you're just really depressed you can't do anything and you're just paralyzed. [22:14]


COUNSELOR: Right. What I was wondering about, you said something about a day without my boyfriend, and your voice changed; it sounded very sarcastic, like [who he pin] (ph) with my  - 


PATIENT: Well, it wasn't so much sarcastic as the fact that it worked, I mean the fact that just at this particular moment he's the causative agent for my going into depression. He's not the cause, I guess, catalytic agent or whatever. He just precipitates what's very much potential anger, just because he can't respond and he can't listen the way I need to have him, and I try to make him listen [to me as well] (ph). 


But anyway it's just... Like I really don't know how to stay on the - when I'm on the good side of that aliveness nothingness kind of thing, it's just fantastic, and I'm really happy no matter what I'm doing in a sense, or I can make anything I'm doing fun or bearable at least, and then otherwise I don't want to move. I don't want to write. I don't want to read. I don't want to talk to anybody.


COUNSELOR: Things are either viable, very viable when you feel alive, but you can do things or you can respond to things or else - it's either that or you're frozen, just frozen. And there's no - sounds like there's no way to see a connection. [24:00]


PATIENT: Well, it's like those are the two worlds that I keep alternating between, and every once in a while I'm sure there's an in-between, like I'm in right now. But once I get into either one or the other one, if I get really high, then I'm fine and I'm pretty safe from attack for a while anyway, unless too many things attack me or I can experience too many low blows to whatever I'm just really happy about, and then it's just complete downer.


Or if I'm really, really depressed then I just know in a sense I have to wait it out. There's absolutely nothing I can do about it unless  - 


COUNSELOR: Let me talk to you about that. Like you've been talking for, I don't know, maybe 10, 15 minutes, and I'm wondering like if you're having the floundering feeling or how this might go differently for you, how you might like it to go differently, but then it's hard to tell when you're right in the middle of it. But like can you...


PATIENT: I don't know, I really don't.


COUNSELOR: Are you feeling too pressed by me for alternatives?


PATIENT: Umm...


COUNSELOR: Or like I'm saying, "Well, what do you want?" "Well, be specific."


PATIENT: I mean I wish I could be, but I can't. I can want something to be different without knowing what, what I want.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I hear that, and I'm trying to say I'm checking out whether you have a sense for that. And yet, I also know that you've been wondering, unless you have something different than not have anything...


PATIENT: Yeah. [26:01] 


COUNSELOR: That's specific. 


PATIENT: I don't know. 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel kind of destructive?


PATIENT: I feel the way I feel when I'm really depressed and I can't talk to my boyfriend. I can't find words to describe what I'm feeling, what I'm thinking about, and I'm just too angry at myself to feel what I'm thinking about, whatever I am, because I can't do anything with it and I can't use it to relate to someone else.


COUNSELOR: And that you're feeling like you're not relating to me now and it's your fault?


PATIENT: Hmm. That's when I say I don't know. I just caught myself saying that and I realize that that's what I say all the time when I just...


COUNSELOR: This is different from planning (ph), at least the way I hear what happens between you sometimes is that you really feel rebuffed by him and I don't know - I guess I'm - I haven't heard you say it outright, but it sounds like in addition to having the potential for plunging you into a real depression, that it also makes you very angry with him. I don't know that; that's just a guess.


PATIENT: Sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't because it's - I shouldn't be angry with him because it's expecting something that he can't give and it's expecting him to be somebody you need and he's not and he's never claimed to be. [27:51]


COUNSELOR: Hmm. I'll tell you, the way that strikes me is I can really see why you've been - you've felt that you had to shut off the stuff about - you know, the serious stuff that you feel has scared him off. What really hits me is an expectation I also hear; that you can never change that, that you therefore can't expect him to hear anything or to make any distinctions, or that the hopelessness that you feel about changing that, and I think that's how you would think of to get into. Because I find myself reacting like for what now does she like about him, or, why can't he listen when she wants to tell him about something good, and what that means to me, I need to know more about it. 


PATIENT: I mean that's pretty much - as far as I can figure it's just something like I've just really got to stop seeing him. Except that in order to do that I've got to like have somebody else to talk to once in a while so that I won't end up depending on him as my only person to talk to, even though he doesn't listen half the time. You know, at least - he's somebody and he's a shoulder to cry on, even if he's asleep and I'm crying on it. And he'll come and help me with things or something like that if I'm absolutely desperate.


Anyway, it's a really bad thing. It's a really sick thing in a lot of ways, and it's kind of just been a case of my ending up being sick physically and then mentally kind of since with him being my only close friend, and then not really having the energy to go out and make other friends. [30:03]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like in some ways you - the way you're talking about it now - you see that there's something that holds you back. It holds you back in that you keep - and this is my guess or the way I see it - that you keep knocking on this door and this person keeps slamming it in your face over and over again. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But there's enough something or other between you, and I don't mean that disparagingly, but like it's kind of like that's - there are friendly moments or warmness or something, just enough to keep you going and just enough to keep you not actively looking for someone else.


PATIENT: Yeah, pretty much. They're not - yeah, I guess that's kind of true. I think the problem is that I really like him and I know that we're really too dissimilar for him to ever be able to really listen to me because he doesn't respect me. And I'm just sort of a good friend, and it really hurts him when I demand any more of it, he feels really responsible, but he feels like he can't just drop me, but at the same time he can't be the person that I want him to be. 


So I can't blame him, but it's just been a case of it - I mean the thing is it hasn't just been with him. It's been with him the last couple of years. But there have been - almost anytime that I couldn't communicate with anybody, although in the last several years like just a guy that I was going with at college and I broke up with, because I knew we could never make it together but that I still wanted to be friends with. And we were good friends and he ended up going - he's studying psychiatry. He ended up going to medical school near my home. So I see him like at Christmas sometimes like that when I go home. 


And he was also at first, and for a long time, though we've got a very good relationship now, very, very far away and very - in a lot of ways, just hard to reach. He'd be very superficial when I would really want to talk. And not just about me; like he wouldn't talk about himself and his feelings. He just couldn't talk about feelings. And I kept trying to tell him, you've got to talk about feelings if you're going to be a psychiatrist. You've got to at least know what they are. [32:43] 


And it's like he was driving me home one night and I was - I guess this was probably - going back with him, I'm quite sure it was the Christmas before I tried to kill myself in March, because it was the - probably because it was the first Christmas that I would have been coming from here to home, yeah. And I was really upset about a whole bunch of things, like I just - things were just all mixed up inside of me and I really appreciated this guy. You know, I really felt like he was a good person to talk to when I could talk to him, which wasn't all the time. 


And it was like I was just seeing him for this one evening and that was going to be it and I was going back to New York. And I mean he was driving me home and I just felt so frustrated because I couldn't talk to him. It's like I just really wanted to open the door and cry on the thruway and get out, and I just came really close to doing it. And that particular feeling I haven't felt in a really long time, but it was really common then. And I had felt it for a whole year before with this other guy that I was going with. [34:10]


COUNSELOR: Are you saying you just feel at that point absolutely hopeless about being able to communicate yourself to another person?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Just absolutely hopeless, regardless of whether or not they might try to hear you or they might want to hear you. Is that right?


PATIENT: I don't know - you know, I don't evaluate it into whose fault it is.


COUNSELOR: No, I didn't mean fault.


PATIENT: Or whose side it's on; you know, whether it's they're wanting to hear me and me being unable to talk, or whether it's they're not wanting to hear me. I think sometimes it's some of each.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. I've heard you say, at least what came across as things from each of those with reference to your boyfriend, it made me think that there were two grouped ways distinctly.


PATIENT: And it's like they both go together and I don't differentiate them. It's just when I am so frustrated as to being able to get across to somebody, that that's really how I feel. I mean that was the first time that I really felt like killing myself was just when I felt like getting out of the car, when I could not stand that situation of being sitting there with somebody and not being able to talk to them. And you know, that's been way before I even knew this guy here, so I certainly can't say that it's him.


COUNSELOR: I guess not. For some reason I don't... Because it has happened before, you can't say it has to do with him.


PATIENT: I can't say it's him in particular.


COUNSELOR: It sounds to me like you're wondering whether you're suspecting yourself with replicating or having this pattern of relationships with that?


PATIENT: Well, I'm certainly doing the same thing in all of them. I mean I certainly am responding in the same way to being unable to communicate, which is not a very fruitful way of responding, and it's a really horrible feeling. [36:19]


COUNSELOR: Well, have you ever felt that you had successfully conveyed yourself to somebody at a time that really mattered?


PATIENT: Oh, I'm sorry.


COUNSELOR: What about a time when you really felt cut off like this or whatever this feels like? I don't know quite what it's like. I have a feeling I keep knocking at it or saying is it this or that and that doesn't help much. But at one of these times when you're sitting in your monad or whatever it is, have you ever had the experience of breaking that and getting through to somebody, feeling that hopelessness and getting out of it, getting through?


PATIENT: I'm really not sure. I know I've tried many times with this one guy that I went with for the longest amount of time. I've never gotten to it with this guy here.


COUNSELOR: Do you try?


PATIENT: Yes. And it invariably ends up with his saying that he doesn't know how to feel, and like crying or saying something about he can't stand it anymore and he can't talk to me anymore, and then I end up like having to comfort him.


COUNSELOR: Conveying to you you're too much for him or pressing him too hard?


PATIENT: Yeah. It's like I can't press him. I can't talk to him.


COUNSELOR: Can you give me - gee, that feels so concrete. But like one thing I'm realizing and one thing that I was thinking about between last time and this time was that a real need to kind of get in and know what some of the details are, or get a more concrete feel for something. Can you give me an example of a time when you would try, what you would say, that gets him saying get off my back like that? Now if nothing comes to mind, we can do it another time. [38:28]


PATIENT: I'm sure something will happen between now and next time I see you and I can give you a good example.


COUNSELOR: Right. 


PATIENT: I haven't like truly tried talking in about a month or something like that. Like somehow after the last camping trip that the two of us went on together, I brought something up that I had I guess really resented his like really not talking to me very much on the trip, and it was kind of like I was just there, and I don't even think I thoroughly examined it.


COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. I don't remember what I said.


PATIENT: But he ended up thinking that he had really been trying; you know, he hadn't come across it (ph) before. You know, he just - somehow he's come to say he can't keep up with my moods and he can't know when I really want to talk to him and that kind of thing.


COUNSELOR: You can't tell him you really want to talk to him, and when you really want to do that stuff, that scares him? Is that what you mean?


PATIENT: Well, he really can't tell that I really want to talk to him. Like a lot of times like I really want to talk to him, but if he's sleepy I just let him go to sleep, which happened on the camping trip, and I would just go out for a walk by myself, which he usually wouldn't even know about because he's asleep. [40:01]


COUNSELOR: Okay. So in that are you saying there may be a matter of my not indicating clearly enough, for whatever reason?


PATIENT: There's partially that, except the fact that if I did indicate, that I would be demanding, and it would equally turn him off. He would say, "I'm really tired, you know, I'm sorry."


(Inaudible at 40:26)


COUNSELOR: Oh, I'm really sorry. Let me see. Tomorrow at 5:15, or - I forget.


PATIENT: Let's see. Thursday, classes are starting again so I can (inaudible at 40:44). Either tomorrow or Friday.


COUNSELOR: This Friday isn't possible for me unless you could come in the morning, which I guess you work (inaudible at 40:55) during - 


PATIENT: Usually. So  - 


END TRANSCRIPT
