TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


INTERVIEWER: Session 19. Hi.


RESPONDENT: Hello. [inaudible at 00:19]


INTERVIEWER: [inaudible at 00:23]


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I've been having the wildest dreams lately. 


INTERVIEWER: Wild as in unusual.


RESPONDENT: [inaudible at 00:54], but I remember them. Like I'll have a dream or something and then I'll kind of wake up but I'll be drowsy and I'll be thinking about it, and I'll fall asleep and have another dream about the same thing about three or four times during the night.


INTERVIEWER: A continuous dream.


RESPONDENT: It's nice, really. It's kind of stimulating. In the morning you can't remember any of it.


INTERVIEWER: That's really nice, yeah.


RESPONDENT: I don't know what [inaudible at 01:38]. Like in one I pictured myself, I don't know what the circumstances were, but I pictured myself stabbing this man. And in another one I was butchering some kind of an animal. I don't really like that.


INTERVIEWER: You don't like dreaming like that?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. 


INTERVIEWER: Because it says something about the way you are?


RESPONDENT: I don't know. Like, I remember kind of clearly a dream, not the whole dream but just a part, where I was supposedly sticking a knife into this guy. And I had a hunting knife, which in the dream looked exactly like a hunting knife that I have in real life, but I'd only stick it in about a half an inch, just kind of jabbing the guy you know. And I don't know who he was or what he was. It's not shocking or anything at the time. I don't know, I just wish I could remember the whole thing.[03:02]


INTERVIEWER: You wish you could recapture it and find out more about it.


RESPONDENT: And last night, I tried to sleep until about four o'clock. My mind just kind of, I don't know, I seem to be latching on to four or five ideas at the same time and jumbling it all together and coming out with a mythological relationship between each idea. And I try to forget the whole thing and go to sleep, but then come up with another idea that would go back and relate to [inaudible at 03:43]. The more I thought, the more complex it got. After a while I got a headache and [inaudible at 03:50].


INTERVIEWER: But you mean you didn't want to think about it because you wanted to go to sleep.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. It was kind of fun because it was a whole bunch of different ideas about what's happening to me right now.


INTERVIEWER: You're kind of trying to fit them all together.


RESPONDENT: I really didn't have to do anything, it's just everything was there and as fast as I could think it fell into place.


INTERVIEWER: You just sat and watched it develop.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I was also having some very serious doubts about my coming here.


INTERVIEWER: Why?


RESPONDENT: Sometimes I think I'm playing games. I really do. 


INTERVIEWER: Playing games in what way?


RESPONDENT: Just kind of playing a diversion game, you know. Getting off the real point that is important. I know it is, but just passing by it.


INTERVIEWER: You mean like you can see something important there but you go around the bend and take a detour.


RESPONDENT: I just forget about it.


INTERVIEWER: And then later on you regret that.


RESPONDENT: They come up in my thoughts when I try to go to sleep.[06:00]


INTERVIEWER: But while you're here it's easier to just do that.


RESPONDENT: Kind of. Like when I think about it at night now, the whole thing seems so clear. I have it all worked out already. And it's frustrating because I wonder why can't I say that? Why can't I even remember most of this stuff that I'm thinking about?


INTERVIEWER: It's nice and clear but then the next day it's gone. You lose it. It's like it's down there but not in such a way that you can get it out.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Sometimes I feel a little bit ridiculous. Almost like I'm running away from facing something because, like when I say something it seems like they're not going to agree with me. I really don't know what's the point of trying to get into it. It seems too much like a game. I say this you say that.


INTERVIEWER: Yeah, I'm trying to see [inaudible at 07:51]. Tell me how "ridiculous" comes into that?


RESPONDENT: I don't know, maybe I just don't see why. The reasons behind the thing.


INTERVIEWER: The reasons behind what?


RESPONDENT: I don't see why someone else should agree with me all the time. That's what it seems to be like. Also, I don't know...


INTERVIEWER: Well, I'm not quite clear about the agreeing part. Somehow I feel uncomfortable when you say I agree with you because I haven't explained how I see it. 


RESPONDENT: Maybe it's because I can't separate the understanding how I feel from you feeling that way yourself. 


INTERVIEWER: When I think I'm saying how you feel then that makes you think that I automatically feel the same way.


RESPONDENT: It's seems like a computer reaction, like a duplication of me. It doesn't seem... I don't know.


INTERVIEWER: Maybe the thing is because what I've been doing here is trying to help you clarify how you feel about things, but one thing I don't want to communicate is that I feel the same way about all those things. Maybe that's what has to be clear. I think that's probably a part of therapy like we would hang from an argument, you would say, well I think this and I would say, well, I don't think that I think another thing. Then you might see a different part of me I guess is what I'm saying.


RESPONDENT: Sometimes...


INTERVIEWER: You're picking at it, but you're trying to lessen the blow I think. I mean, that's how it felt. Anyway, go ahead.


RESPONDENT: Sometimes I think that, oh, I know a little bit about [inaudible at 11:52], and I know the way a person feels is important, right? Since nothing can choose to follow that is important in this relationship, right?


INTERVIEWER: Right.


RESPONDENT: And then sometimes I just feel like I really don't give a damn you know? I don't want to feel anything; I just want to go numb. You'll ask me a question like, how does that make you feel? And I don't want to know.[12:27]


INTERVIEWER: Well, how it makes you feel next time is that you don't care. But it sounds like you resist feeling that way. You feel that there's pressure put on you to talk about something you don't want to get into. [inaudible at 13:00]


RESPONDENT: I think I've finished picking at it.


INTERVIEWER: I don't really feel we've picked at it.


RESPONDENT: I get angry some days. Last night too, it was kind of frustrating because I, lately I've actually been thinking, what am I going to do with my life? And coming up with some ideas of what I would like. And then it seems to hit me, I'll be telling myself, what have you got? Seventy percent of this stuff you're planning is out the window.


INTERVIEWER: I guess I want to go back to something, this is something you talked about and kind of a concern I have. I remember when you first came in and you said something about you read some material theory once that made you feel better. And I had the feeling that somehow you felt that getting in contact with this kind of therapy would somehow have an impact on you that would make you feel better, but how... how can I put this?


RESPONDENT: Maybe I can do it.


INTERVIEWER: Okay.


RESPONDENT: Because I was thinking about that last night too.


INTERVIEWER: Yeah, okay.


RESPONDENT: In fact, I was thinking a lot about that last night, funny you should mention it. I used to read all kinds of Roger's books, or a lot of the stuff that he puts out, and stuff that goes along there like [inaudible at 16:00]. I think it goes along with it. I don't even remember a lot of what I read. And I felt good reading it because it was like someone showing me that the world isn't as cold and heartless as I think it is now. And it kind of changed me a little bit. And by just knowing that maybe I was fooling myself or something, but just knowing that that kind of therapy just existed, made me feel a lot better towards myself and towards other people and lot more tolerant. And at the same time I started kind of loosening up where now I can [inaudible at 16:52] with people and not feel guilty about it. I can be nice to people and that [inaudible at 17:01] because I don't care because what can they do to me? I wasn't the clam without the shell. I don't know. I guess I was depending too much on the books to keep me going. I need regular doses of it and after a while the doses is like being addicted to a pill and they need to be bigger and bigger, and so I started reading all kinds of stuff. Maybe this is a filed explanation but I think it's a little bit true. Anyway, I started getting into some really pessimistic stuff about the way our society operates. How many people in this country are neurotic and I really think it made me kind of angry and at the same time I wanted to change it. It just kind of built up and there was no way that I could get it out. I mean you can't be angry at the whole world. I guess I was. And so I go and rob a stupid jewelry store you know. It was really a very relieving experience.


INTERVIEWER: To rob a jewelry store?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Right afterwards, immediately afterwards, I felt like I was dead. I was almost a [inaudible at 18:54]. And then after a while I just kind of came out of it and cried a little. And then I thought, oh man, all that hate's gone, and I the best I've ever felt in my life I think. And then the realization of what I had done kind of caught up with me, and the consequences of it. And it didn't catch up with me for a while. Not having that load of hate on me kind of, I realized I could be a tolerant person for a while. And so it kind of started building up again.


INTERVIEWER: That's what concerns me. It's like this: it sounds like what happened to you when you read these Roger's books or whatever books you read, somehow you got the feeling yes there's some good in the world and that made you feel good for a while. And then that slipped away and then you know, I think... and you thought I'll get rid of that by, I mean, you did cooperate and help us out, [inaudible at 20:20] as that got rid of the hate.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. It would change my situation and a few other people's situation.


INTERVIEWER: Right. And I'm not sure how you feel about that now. What really concerns me is when I think about this therapy and I try to explain this to myself, are you getting something out of this therapy that is going to be just a kind of thing that after a time it's going to slip away, or are you getting something deep enough that it's going to stay with you, as opposed to what happened to you after you read those books. I just don't know the answer to that question.


RESPONDENT: I was thinking the same thing. 


INTERVIEWER: I guess I'm saying you thinking that, well I guess I don't really know [inaudible at 21:50]. I just feel there are a lot of things that you do feel that we haven't really gotten to.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like sometimes I feel like I don't want to change.


INTERVIEWER: Like you want to stay like you are.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, like I would like to have a happy disposition and all that, sometimes I would. But the way I look at how this world's getting really messed up, I associate me changing liking that.


INTERVIEWER: I see. I see.


RESPONDENT: And I can't picture it.


INTERVIEWER: I see. So that's like, because the world is really messed up, that somehow you couldn't change in that kind of situation, or it wouldn't be...


RESPONDENT: Right. Right now I'm kind of intolerant to - well not intolerant - but I have a very negative opinion of business in general and the way this whole site is set up and about 60 percent of the people in it. And I can't picture myself without that influence because it seems to me like I would be shoving away something that's very real to me. 


INTERVIEWER: You'd be denying that [inaudible at 23:28]


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: It's sort of like, for you to be happy in the midst of this [inaudible at 23:28] world would just be all wrong, denying less.


RESPONDENT: It wouldn't be. I just can't picture it anyway. I can picture myself being happier alone, up in Alaska, not seeing anybody for months at a time rather than living down here. 


INTERVIEWER: Living around here keeps you like that, is that what you mean? Like there's so many depressing things?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Things that other people just accept and I don't.


INTERVIEWER: Yeah, I understand. So that it's really expressing more of yourself as the unhappy.


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: And I guess that also sounds like you feel you have to become yourself again if you are to become happier. You shut things out.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like an ignorant bliss. I know that you can look at things in two different ways. You can look at them from the viewpoint of finding bad, or you can look at them from the viewpoint of finding good. It just seems like when I look to find the good, there's a lot of good in this world, it's nice. But then I can't look at the good without looking at the bad too, and there's so much more bad that I have to question now, am I ever going to see what's right just looking at the good? I mean is it going to help anybody to look at just the good? Like the Buddhist who believes in reincarnation who says all will be well in time. Meanwhile there's a snake killing his kid. All will be well in time, sure in reincarnation 20 generations from now. I can't accept that. It especially doesn't help thinking I'm not going to be around 20 generations from now. [26:47]


INTERVIEWER: So it's really a choice that you're making to not shut out any of the depressing things, and try and look at them and say, yes, the world is pretty bad.


RESPONDENT: I get varied, sometimes I look more at the bad, and sometimes more at the good. And when I look at the good I can imagine, I think, just to help out somebody in this society or to make it work a little bit better. And it wouldn't, you know, slaving away in school and doing things that I don't really like to do just to kind of get the training you need to help somebody. And then I think about that for a while and then it might be a couple of hours later, or maybe the next day, then I go back and think, well sure I can do it. I don't think there's any [inaudible at 28:11] that I could make it through college on the Honor Roll. Big deal. But then would I have influence? What could I do with what I had? And I can't cope with that much.


INTERVIEWER: You mean, how could you put it to use?


RESPONDENT: That, and then what would I be doing that I wanted to do?


INTERVIEWER: If you had a college degree what would it be that you would find satisfying to do.


RESPONDENT: I'd probably be starting to do the same thing I want to do now, go to Alaska and hibernate. 


INTERVIEWER: So when you look at what your real goals are, you don't think that going to college would bring you any closer to them, so you say why should I do that.


RESPONDENT: Maybe part-time for a little bit, but not like going after a degree or anything. I think I've talked to you about everything I thought about last night. As I said, I remember it.


INTERVIEWER: You mean after you thought you wouldn't remember it?


RESPONDENT: When I woke up I knew I felt something but I didn't know what it was. I had no idea. Maybe an open mouth does do some good sometimes, just kind of gets you going, like writing does sometimes. I start out to write my girl a letter, I think, well I might get a page out of this and it ends up three because I just keep writing.[31:05]


INTERVIEWER: Once you start it seems like there's more to say.


RESPONDENT: Sometimes I don't even know where to start. I know she wants to get a letter from me. It's a pain sometimes, writing letters. Then I think how I feel when I get one, and then I think, oh it's got to be worth it, keep doing it.


INTERVIEWER: It helps you write when you think how happy it makes her.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. We've been writing each other a letter a day. I think she writes them kind of to take the place of doing homework. That's not going to help her too much right? 


I imagine what Alaska would be like, you know, battling the elements and the foxes and the wolves and storing your provisions so they can't get them, surviving from day to day. It feels much more attractive than fighting teachers and bureaucracies and parents and traffic.


INTERVIEWER: There's something about living real battles instead of...


RESPONDENT: ...instead of battles in my mind, or battles that I can't win.


INTERVIEWER: You have a chance of winning them.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, because you're like on your own. If you fail it's your fault, not the fault of somebody who can't be pecked enough. [34:27]


INTERVIEWER: You have a fair chance.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And if you use your brains you can really have a good life up there. 


INTERVIEWER: Is that something you're seriously thinking of doing someday?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like instead of someday, I'm going to do it as soon as I get out of this mess in court, or as soon as possible after that.


INTERVIEWER: It's something you can see. Is it possible, practically, something you can do yourself?


RESPONDENT: Yeah I think so. And the only thing that would kind of stop me would be the money, which means I would need a job and work for a few months to get the money, but I don't think I would mind that too much because I know what I would be working for then.


INTERVIEWER: It would a goal that would be worth doing. Has that been one of the troubles of working, that there's no reason for it?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I mean the only reason I was working was to support a car or go to school neither of which were goals of mine. Like when I first started driving, working with a goal to support a car because it was fun then. Now it's more like a pain. Then I think sometimes if I do that and I decide that I want to come back I can always do that. But if I don't do it, I may change and I'll never know what I missed. I mean when I'm down living in the city here there's so much that I don't even enjoy.[37:40]


INTERVIEWER: And you'll never have that experience and maybe change if you didn't try. Now is the time to do it.


RESPONDENT: This is something I hadn't thought of.


INTERVIEWER: What's that?


RESPONDENT: How, like when I was in college, and even in high school, it was kind of like my opinion that organized schools killed initiative. And just now I thought, you know, look what happened to me? I was really good at school. I loved it, and it killed it. I never thought it applied to me.


INTERVIEWER: You thought it in general, you never realized it happened to you.


RESPONDENT: I think if I do go back to college the only way I would go back would be like, you know one of these - my old school has a program - it's hard to get into - they have a program where the student just sets up the whole hour of the course, for every course you take. Like he just picks what he wants and then he doesn't ever have to come to class because there is no class. He just learns.


INTERVIEWER: But you know yourself well enough to know that if you went back to school you would want a pretty free program.


RESPONDENT: I know what I would study too, chemistry mostly, and some ecology and physics - I really like physics. Maybe a little bit of sociology or home economics or something like that. Just stuff I could use and I could just go off and use what I want. I can imagine myself becoming a scientist because then I would be in a more expert position to kind of see a little bit about the things that I enjoy, like fishing, or hunting or just being alone.[41:03]


INTERVIEWER: You then could integrate them.


RESPONDENT: And then I think, well really, what could I do? Because when the army engineer corps wants to build a dam in the middle of Alaska on a couple of million acres, what's a biologist going to do against that? What's he going to do to keep that from happening? To keep it as it is?


INTERVIEWER: I'm not quite sure what you're saying, you're saying if you were off in Alaska...


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: You mean you would still be under control there, under the power of outside influences.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. The government or big companies would just do what they damn well please as long as anybody lets them. I mean, who's going to stop them? If you say they're supposed to regulate themselves, who's going to stop them?


INTERVIEWER: You're saying if you were a scientist you couldn't stop them either.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Then I could see more clearly what was going on, but I don't think I could do anything.


INTERVIEWER: So what's the effect of that, to make you not want to be a scientist or what? You're saying what would I gain by that? I'm not quite sure.


RESPONDENT: I don't know, there's a conflict there because I like to see things made better, and I'd like to be a part of it.


INTERVIEWER: I see.


RESPONDENT: But the odds against changing anything are tremendous. Like maybe this is over influencing it, but I've been reading this book on conservation of the biological equilibrium in our world now, and how really it's getting all wrecked because nobody takes any consideration of what happens to the algae and the animals and everything when they let pollution in the water. [43:30]


INTERVIEWER: Let me interrupt you a bit to get back to what you were saying. It sounds like what you're saying about the biology thing is, all right, I'd like to be a biologist, but the drawback of that is that I won't have very much power and I'm not going to have some kind of power to help things change.


RESPONDENT: So what do I do, blow up a dam or [inaudible at 43:51]? That's like that other thing, it doesn't work because they're just going to build another one. If you get caught you've had it.


INTERVIEWER: So what you're doing right now is partly searching for how you can have some good effect and you're feeling pretty pessimistic about it.


RESPONDENT: Right. 


INTERVIEWER: Which I think is a pretty realistic problem. I face that same problem a lot, it's part of living, unfortunately.


RESPONDENT: I think part of it is I like things to change fast, you know. Like if I see something wrong, and somebody I know can correct it, then I say, gee something's wrong there, why don't you fix it? That's your responsibility. And they just completely deny that reality exists. You know, maybe in a year or two we'll fix it. Like maybe something of that kind, or maybe they'll wait until they break it to fix it, or until it breaks down.


INTERVIEWER: It makes you irritated when you point it out and it nothing gets done.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, it's just a general attitude of people all over the place. Like everything is expendable when sooner or later something's not going to be expendable.


INTERVIEWER: You mean they say, oh well this doesn't matter so much, there's no reason to correct this right away.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. It's like one of the points in that book I was reading. Like they build a nuclear reactor, no studies of what effects it has, then they put it into operation, and then after it's operating then they will make a study that says it kills all the fish. And then they do something to decrease the pollution and the heat that kills them. It's too late then, the fish are dead, there's nothing left. The book calls that "engineer's mentality".


INTERVIEWER: So the kind of change you would like to be part of is a much faster change.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Maybe somebody I'll see that it doesn't happen that way. Nothing happens. Like people are going to keep going on having six or seven kids, until nobody can eat. And then they'll be too starved to have intercourse and then they won't have six and seven kids because they'll all be dead. [48:33]


INTERVIEWER: I guess where you are in all this is you feel this around you and in view of how many bad things are going on and how pessimistic you feel but still you want to do something to be part of [inaudible at 49:07] what you want to do with your life given all the circumstances. 


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I suppose I went through the same position before. Like when I started college. Like when I robbed that store, the same position.


INTERVIEWER: So [inaudible at 49:43].


RESPONDENT: Yeah, that's it. It seems like the basis of our society.


INTERVIEWER: And so that really stops you.


RESPONDENT: Kind of, yeah. I really don't know what I'm going to do. I know I'll probably do something like physical labor or something. Working somewhere - I'd be happier than if I just sit at a desk. [52:51]


INTERVIEWER: You'd be happier if you sat at a desk?


RESPONDENT: No, than if I sat at a desk.


INTERVIEWER: I understand, you'd be happier...


RESPONDENT: Doing something, because at least I'd get tired for my effort. 


INTERVIEWER: So that's another thing that you'd like besides...


RESPONDENT: Yeah, but then I kind of wonder what would I be doing it for? Would I be doing it for money or just to do it. Because if I have to do it for money, like you have to work around here, if you choose to get a manual labor job you've got to do it on somebody else's whims. I couldn't take a whole life of that. It would kind of burn me up.


INTERVIEWER: You want to be more independent than that. So you need a way to be independent instead of some kind of physical thing.


RESPONDENT: Take myself to the limit I want to go to and be able to stop there. 


INTERVIEWER: Well so far the things I hear you want are money, and physical labor, find a job, a life with a lot of independence in it and you like being away from people, and you like to have some kind of respect from society or what have you. But you're not sure how to work out all those things together, or some of them.


RESPONDENT: Like if the money was missing I wouldn't mind too much, if I could survive without money. I just want to survive without sweat. And if it takes money, well then it's got to be money. Without any one of those I wouldn't be satisfied. [55:40]


INTERVIEWER: You need all those.


RESPONDENT: Like if I didn't have the physical labor I'd get restless. If I didn't have the mental stimulation I'd get restless. If I didn't feel like I was doing something that had a purpose I'd feel restless to help somebody, you know. So where do you go?


INTERVIEWER: Well, I don't know but it looks like... I don't know if you can find something that has all those things in, but I guess what I want to say is don't stop looking. 


Don't assume that there are only factory jobs and desk jobs. There are possibilities although they may be hard to find.


RESPONDENT: Things never change. 


INTERVIEWER: It sound a little like what you're saying is I why to use everything I can, my physical capacity, my mind, my ability to do something useful.


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: [inaudible at 59:04]


RESPONDENT: Yeah, okay. 


INTERVIEWER: [inaudible at 59:29]


RESPONDENT: I hadn't counted it, no.


END TRANSCRIPT
