TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
SYLVIA: Hi it's Sylvia.
COUNSELOR: Hi Sylvia, it's Josephine.
SYLVIA: Hi Josephine.
COUNSELOR: Can you hear me okay?
SYLVIA: Yes I can.
COUNSELOR: Okay, good. I have a new headset and I've had a some complaints about people can't quite hear me so I'm trying to make sure it's working.
SYLVIA: Oh good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So, what happened last week again? I know you sent out an e-mail.
SYLVIA: Oh, I hurt my knee really bad. Skiing.
COUNSELOR: Oh that's right with the skiing. Oh my gosh.
SYLVIA: And it's much better but I'm very much limping and suffering. I'm in a lot of pain at night and so, I've had to curtail all my activities and it looks like I can't ski for the rest of the winter, which my goal this winter was to heal psychologically and physically, you know just to get myself well and then this happened and we've been having such beautiful snow and now I can't ski. It's kinda funny because I thought I was getting some kind of depression. But, it's lifted, so I'm feeling better. But anyway, I'm kind of a mess more so than I've been in a long time and I thought the move took so much out of me and then I thought I would have this winter to recuperate before work started and work's about to start, so here we go.
COUNSELOR: Here we go, yeah.
SYLVIA: So, anyway, I feel like I've kind of been on the, a self-pity trip and I'm really trying to release that and what I've really got in touch with today is that if nothing else in my life is going really well - I'm abstinent. So, there you go.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's the truth, absolutely the truth. When nothing else, I didn't know anything else, nothing else was working, I just would stay abstinent and stay sober and life would move on. This too shall pass is one of AA's slogans, you know?
SYLVIA: I've been saying that a lot. And I've been in a lot of pain and I've stopped taking Advil because it made me kind of sick to my stomach and I don't know last week there was a weird article in the paper saying that men in a heart study who had been taking Advil and aspirin had been having prostate cancer in higher numbers so I thought, oh I'll just quit the Advil. You know it got into a fear thing. And what I realize now is that's why I'm having so many sleepless nights is because I'm in pain, so I need to go back to taking Advil.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you probably should. 
SYLVIA: I'm not a man and I don't have a prostate and  - 
COUNSELOR: [laughs]
SYLVIA: - when I'm done with this, I can recuperate and do some liver cleansing and, anyway. So I feel like I've kind of been on the pity pot and I'm ready to release it and today I feel a real shift  - 
COUNSELOR: Oh good, good, good.
SYLVIA: - yeah, so I'm excited about getting together with the group and everything. How have you been?
COUNSELOR: I've been good, I've been good. Yeah.
SYLVIA: Is it just you and I?
COUNSELOR: Just the two of us so far, yeah.
[bell dings]
LUCY: It's Lucy.
COUNSELOR: Hey Lucy. 
SYLVIA: Hi Lucy.
LUCY: Hello. 
COUNSELOR: Hi Lucy. I did not respond to your e-mail but you were exactly right. I had written my list for the week and then didn't cross you off, so thank you for catching that. 
LUCY: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Sylvia and I are online, so now you. I expect Phyllis to be late. She'd sent me an e-mail and I think she might have sent one to the whole group that she had an interview that she's going to try to get home in time for most of the group, but she's probably going to be a little late and I guess there's a chance if the interview goes really well, she might not make the group. And then, Julie it's her birthday today and she had driven down to San Francisco to get together with Jillian and they were going to do the phone call together. And I just got a message from her saying that because it's her birthday some people have dropped by and, anyway, she said it's not, we won't have any privacy so I think she said that she was going to either check in with you, Lucy, or she had already checked in with you.
LUCY: Yeah, she did.
COUNSELOR: Okay, good deal. Good deal. So, and I assume Jillian will do the same thing.  I talked to Holly earlier so I expect her to be here.
[bell dings]
HEATHER: It's Heather.
COUNSELOR: Hey Heather 
PARTICIPANTS: Hi Heather.
HEATHER: Hi.
COUNSELOR: And Heather, it's Lucy and Sylvia and Josephine, so we're here. I just said Phyllis is probably going to be a little late, she had a job interview.
[bell dings]
HOLLY: I'm Holly.
COUNSELOR: Hi Holly. 
PARTICIPANTS: Hi Holly. Hello.
COUNSELOR: So now all we're waiting for is Charlotte who is oftentimes running late because she has to come to group at her office. So, I have Sylvia's homework and I have Phyllis' homework. She was so proud of herself that she finally emailed something. She's been doing it but she just hadn't ever sent it out to the gang, so she's really excited about doing that. 
HOLLY: I sent mine.
COUNSELOR: So is there anybody else's? 
PARTICIPANT: I just got Holly's. I didn't actually do it this week. I was bad. [laughs]
COUNSELOR: You were bad? [chuckles] You weren't bad. 
LUCY:  I just couldn't wrap my mind around it so I thought I would just kind of listen in this week.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, did the e-mail you send me go to everybody or was it just me? It might have been just me. 
LUCY: Oh, that was just for you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, okay. So, it sounds like that, what you talked about would probably be a fine topic as well. So it's not an unusual one to kind of try to figure out how to keep the nutrition issue in a separate category and address it from a spiritual principle. You know, I think we talked about that.
PARTICIPANTS: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Was it two weeks ago or last week? Was that the last week one? 
HEATHER: Well the latest one was struggling with desserts and trying to find a way to do moderate with that, which is not working well.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I think what you said was that when your plan desserts out it doesn't go well and when you include them in twice a week it doesn't go well. So oftentimes I'll say well let them come to you so that you don't have to worry about bringing them in, so if there's a birthday party with a meal and the cake is served at the same time, you can include a piece in or not, but letting them come to you is oftentimes a good way to deal with desserts. If you have a lifestyle where they never come to you and you might because I know you're relatively isolated, then you might plan them in once or twice a month and a real low moderate serving. And, I found when I eat the low moderate end serving of a dessert, I don't feel physical bad...Four to six bites is usually the size dessert I eat and recommend...no the size other people would eat. So those are some ideas, and I know you and I were going to talk soon, maybe you can hang on after this session, and we can get that appointment on the books so. But those are some ideas to begin, address it but keep it in a separate category and thank God your still abstinent. You know? 
COUNSELOR: Hopefully we'll hear from Charlotte and Phyllis ... they will be along hopefully. All right, well Lucy how are you feeling about getting ready for your trip and, and having a temporary closing with the group?
LUCY: I'm feeling okay about it. The trip is about a month away, so we still have some prep time going on. But I'm extremely excited about and I'm feeling really good. I think Julie's idea of sending postcards out is a great idea. So, again, if any of you guys are open to it, please e-mail me your address so I can, and I've e-mailed Julie, because I'm probably going to be sending a lot of postcards just because it'll keep me honest and in touch and that's going to be good.
COUNSELOR: Good. And you're going to be in, in addition to France, where are you going to be?
PARTICIPANT: Just France.
COUNSELOR: Just France.
LUCY: Well, we'll be in Ireland for a couple of days, but mostly France.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well make sure you connect with Holly, because I think she's going to be in Ireland and London and Paris.
LUCY: Wow. At the same time?
HOLLY: It's probably going to be London, France, and Ireland.
COUNSELOR: London, France, and Ireland. Okay. So you guys might cross each other's paths.
LUCY: Exactly 
HOLLY: I'll send you my address right now.
LUCY: Oh great. Thank you. 
COUNSELOR: And do you have mine Lucy?
LUCY: I don't have your address I don't think, no.
COUNSELOR: Okay. All right, I'm going to make a note here to get that e-mailed to you.
LUCY: But I really, I just, I feel like that's going to really help me.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah. Definitely.
LUCY: To write one or two postcards a day and that'll keep me honest.
COUNSELOR: I know that in my first year or two of abstinence, I did travel internationally, I actually traveled to a very small town that didn't even have very many cars even in it.  So I took along AA's Big Book, the 12 and 12, my Alanon One Day at a Time little meditation book so that I could read them daily. So might want to put a couple of books in your suitcase.
LUCY: That's a great idea, yeah.
COUNSELOR: But I think times have changed and where you guys are going you might have Internet access. You might be able to shoot an e-mail to us pretty regularly.
LUCY: Right. I have to figure out how to do it from someone else's computer, which I'm sure isn't that difficult.
HOLLY: You know they have these Internet caf�s so you just have to know what your passwords are, or what's your user's ... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, your user's website.
HOLLY: - name is and what your password is and then you can route yourself on. So talk to your provider, let them know that you're going to be going out of the country, you're going to want to use an Internet caf�.  How are you going to do that? How do you get into your e-mail from another computer? And they should be able to say something like, "oh you just go to our homepage and you sign in and check your e-mail."  That's basically what it is. With me, I would go to msn.net, or yahoo.com.
LUCY: Okay, because I'm sure you're right. I mean there are even some computer access in many of the hotels... I'll bet they'll have a computer available to guests.
COUNSELOR: Absolutely.
LUCY: Okay.
COUNSELOR: The more I've traveled, the more I realized internet access is everywhere. 
LUCY: Yeah. I'll call. Thanks Holly.
COUNSELOR: Good, good. So I'm glad you're feeling like you've got a solid plan. I'm glad you're feeling confident, and when is your actual abstinence birthday? Your one year? Is it August?
PARTICIPANT: Yeah, August. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you'll be back with us before then so we'll be able to get you a token to honor the one year birthday. 
LUCY: Yeah, I'm planning on joining the next session.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Good, good. Alright. So, any questions you have about the trip? The time zone change? The traveling stuff? 
LUCY: No, I'm feeling fine right now.  I'm feeling pretty good about it. I mean it's so funny, the last private session you and I had I committed to you about walking and stuff? And this is a good part about being a compulsive person is if I write it in my book, which you had me do, I feel like I have to do it. [laughs] So I've been doing it and I've been feeling really good about it.
COUNSELOR: So, good.
LUCY: You know that's the other side of the coin about being compulsive, obsessive person. It's like if I have it on my list then I am more likely to do it.
COUNSELOR: But that's true for all humans in general. If you work from a day-timer, you usually get things done that are written in there, you know?
LUCY: Right, right. So anyway that's helped with exercise... it has helped with everything too. It helped me to be more moderate. It helps me with everything, so it's been going well.
COUNSELOR: Good. Well if you get your itinerary and you have any concerns about how to get through the time zone changes and the traveling days. The days when we travel sometimes it's a little messy, so it's important that we get a plan, so just give a call if you have your itinerary.
LUCY: Okay, I haven't actually really thought about that part, but you're right. Okay. I will.
COUNSELOR: All right.
LUCY: I did send you my homework I think on Monday.  Did you guys get my homework?
PARTICIPANT: Yep, I got it. You did it, you sent two of them.
HOLLY: Didn't you send both? Chapter 18 and a 19.
LUCY: Oh, I did. You're right. I did those, I did them both on the same day.
COUNSELOR: Oh good. Well, let me see if I can find them. Well, nope I can't get to it at the moment. I've had a little bit of printer trouble and I think you're in the one of the computers that I can't get the printer to work on, so, would you be willing to kick us off and kind of comment about what you got out of the writing assignment? What struck you as the important information?
LUCY: Well, this homework assignment in particular last July [chuckles] is what got me abstinent and really, really got me thinking about the whole thing and, so this homework assignment in particular is, it was a big one for me. I remember it was extremely painful last year to do it. This year it wasn't as painful because I'm abstinent now and that makes it so much better, but I have to realize that I have a long way to go in being really honest about what's moderate. Because I've always wanted... my disease wants to lie to me about what's moderate. And I used to believe the disease because I'm used to eating high moderate or just overeating. And that's what I'm used to, that's what feels comfortable to me, but not really. So, it's a hard habit to break but I realize that I really need to eat less... eat in the moderate range.
COUNSELOR: And so did you have a good way to kind of move into the more mid-range moderate? 
LUCY: You know, it's like I said, it's sort of like you said, we all know what moderate is. We all innately pretty much know what moderate is. It's what, say, three or four cups of food or the size of your hands cupped together. So I'm going to just really, really, really watch that.
COUNSELOR: So you're just bringing like a consciousness to the meal time or the meal preparation time?
LUCY: Right and the amount. Exactly.
COUNSELOR: And you know, I know that people oftentimes have more trouble when they cook for more than one meal, so I always suggest to people to not cook to have leftovers. That's usually very problematic for us. So, if you have a chance Lucy to just really work on fixing for one meal at a time, if your husband wants an eight or a nine on the moderate range, give him that, but cook for his eight or nine and serve yourself five or six. And then it's very easy to stay in the five or six when there is nothing else and we're not going to get up and add on. Does that make sense to all of you guys?
LUCY: Well that's funny because I couldn't sleep the other night and I was watching this program on TV and there was this doctor, she was at this restaurant and she is a nutritionist and she was saying what a serving in a restaurant is and she had her little half-cup measurer, which is like what half a cup is what you're supposed to have of pasta or starch or something?
COUNSELOR AND HOLLY: Right.
LUCY: And she ordered a pasta dish and she measured it out and it came to like six and a half servings. And that's one portion and then she ordered the kids' size and it was three and a half times, so even a kid's size is three and a half times what it should be. So I think we really get distorted about what a plate of food should look like.
COUNSELOR: Right. Seems like restaurants are afraid to serve moderate in the United States, like they'll lose the public... they'll go somewhere else.
LUCY: Well, we're used to more is better and if they served us what we really should get, it wouldn't look like that. [laughs]
COUNSELOR: That's right. Well, this is nice that you saw that and heard that from that perspective because I think that  - 
LUCY: Yeah, it was really quite interesting to see her because she really scooped it up with her little half-cup measuring thing and put it in another little plate. So it was really interesting to see that demonstration.
COUNSELOR: I know I take my grandkids out to eat fairly often and they usually will have a kids' menu and oftentimes they like the macaroni and cheese. You know most restaurants have that on the kids menu. I have them take half of it home.
LUCY: [Even the kids' portion, yeah because  - 
COUNSELOR: - the kids' portion.
LUCY: - the kids are eating way too much.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And especially of something like the pasta, you know that's just not a moderate serving of pasta. So, if you cook, all of you, I'll just reiterate that again. If you cook for moderate meals, it's much easier to eat a moderate meal. If you cook for leftovers, you're probably going to have some trouble. So bring your consciousness to meal time.
LUCY: Yeah and then I'm still on the higher end of moderate, and I mean that can't be a shock to me because I'm overweight. There are reasons for that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah but it sounds like you've got what we are talking about, you have an awareness that you were at the high end of moderate.
LUCY: Yeah. But my disease still wants to fool me that I'm eating okay and I'm eating just as much as what normal people would eat you know on and on and on.
COUNSELOR: Well if it tries to tell you that say, "Let's ask Josephine about this meal." So that if you're going to tell on it, it usually shuts right up. That really, really helped me to get a reality check from time to time on portions.
LUCY: Okay.
COUNSELOR: So, before you travel, if you want to do that, that would be great, but I think your husband does the cooking. Is that right? 
LUCY: Right.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to jump in with your writing on the homework?
LUCY: Okay. It was really helpful this week because I eat on the high end of moderate probably at every meal and I am losing weight. I'm almost at six months of abstinence. I think Julie is at six months too.
COUNSELOR: Today. Today is her six months.
JULIE: Yeah, I think a bunch of us are pretty close together. You know so I am losing weight, but I know I'm eating at the high end of moderate and I'm doing it because, it makes me comfortable and I'm very familiar with overeating. So, after I did the homework today, I'm now recommitting to eating two hands together as a reasonable portion and I found that I had a wonderful salad for lunch and it was enough. And I felt quite full... Actually I felt better than I felt in a while because I've been definitely stretching my proportions of what I've been eating. 
COUNSELOR: Let me give you a little bit of clarity about a moderate meal size...cup your hands, put the base of your palms together, fingertips touching kind of that roundness, like we were putting our hands around a ball or something. That would be an example of your stomach size...But let me add... if you filled your whole stomach with lasagna that wouldn't be probably an appropriate serving of lasagna though.
JULIE: Right.
COUNSELOR: If that's all you ate, it would fit in your stomach. But on the other hand if you fill your stomach with nothing but salad, once it's chewed, you know down to chewed, it's really not going to take up much of that stomach at all. 
JULIE: Right.
COUNSELOR: Even though two cups of salad might look like bigger than your stomach, just keep in mind that the, the stomach measuring chewed food.
JULIE: Okay.
CHARLOTTE: I didn't know that. This is Charlotte. That's the chewed food? 
COUNSELOR: Chewed. Yeah, so that when you chew up a cup and a half of salad, it kind of chews down to like a quarter of cup, because it's basically water. 
CHARLOTTE: Right.
COUNSELOR: Water based. On the other hand, a baked potato doesn't chew down to water, it's not a water based vegetable.. It's still going to take up approximately close to the same amount of space as uneaten...  same thing for steak. It's going to come down a little bit, pasta a little bit, but not like fruits and vegetables might come down or salads might come down. So for people who have a vomiting history, like they totally get what chewed food looks like. [laughs] But unless you've had food poisoning lately, you might not have that awareness.
PARTICIPANT: Right, right.
JULIE: But the thing that I'm struggling with, which is exactly the same as what Heather was talking about is dessert. Because I was finding that banning them did work and I kept telling myself, I kind of borrowed this from Heather, her idea was to plan it in 24 hours in advance or don't eat it, so I was doing that and then I found that what it meant was I was just not having dessert. Then when I started, as soon as I started to have it over this past weekend for the first time in about a month, all of a sudden I had two cookies with lunch, two cookies with dinner. I planned them and then I planned two cookies with the next day's lunch and two cookies with the next day's dinner - 
COUNSELOR: And when did they get planned?
JULIE: And then on Sunday. What's that?
COUNSELOR: Okay, go ahead. Go ahead, finish the story. I'm sorry.
JULIE: Sunday, I had a reasonable breakfast, moderate portion, a good healthy breakfast and then I was going to have like a sub or something for lunch and I went to the sandwich place and there was a huge line so I told myself I could just have cookies for lunch. So, I went to get the cookies and they didn't have the ones I wanted so I had a piece of chocolate cake and cookies for lunch. Now what I told myself was, I did not break my abstinence because it was four hours after my breakfast and four hours before dinner, but it was a total wheat, white flour, white sugar, total weird lunch.
COUNSELOR: When did you change your mind about the 24 hour in advance?
JULIE: I was out of control. I went right back into the very familiar binge mentality of I'm going to overeat because I damn well feel like it.
COUNSELOR: And where does your rational mind come into that when you hear the disease chatter? Because in our first year, part of what we do, is to learn to self talk... like, we have a disease, we're not the disease."  And that separation is harder if you are in that first six months of abstinence. It's harder to make that distinction then.
JULIE: Yep.
COUNSELOR: That's why we try to make our decisions at a non meal time...and then we keep our word and stick to the plan... we quit acting from feelings because the addiction is too mixed up with our feelings. Does that make sense?
SYLVIA: Right. It does. And I was just feeling so weird with the time change and getting up early and I felt like with this knee injury, I felt like I'm depressed, although I don't think I am, but I just started getting all like very full of self-pity. So I pulled it together and had a totally healthy brown rice and black bean dinner and I've been okay ever since Sunday. I feel like I'm back on track and I'm recommitted. Everybody's homework was very helpful.
COUNSELOR: Great.  So you're sticking with the, the 24 hour in advance rule?
SYLVIA: I'm just going to not have dessert for now because it's too triggering.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, here's the thing. Probably for the rest of your life that's not going to work real well, but I think if you say for now I'm not having dessert, but it's in my future. Just not for now. It's in my future. It's not for now. The addiction will want you to break your abstinence to get it.
SYLVIA: I know.
COUNSELOR: And it, so it loves the banning part.
SYLVIA: Yep.
COUNSELOR: So the truth is, you do not have to lose your commitment to your decisions simply because you feel the addiction chatter.
SYLVIA: Right.
COUNSELOR: And that's for all of us, not just for Sylvia. The addiction wants you to believe, if you're triggered, you've lost your decision right there. Not true. 
SYLVIA: Right.
COUNSELOR: And so, what happens is if we don't keep our commitments, then the addiction can say, "That didn't really work out well. We've struggled with those craving for hours so that didn't work out real well." But, because you broke your abstinence and commitment to you, you feel like you can't do it at all because you're not trustworthy...But I think if we keep our word, everything changes... and I do believe you're somebody who can keep your word and stay abstinent. 
SYLVIA: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: If you keep your word and you make a plan and the plan doesn't give you the freedom, you can make a different plan the next day... Ask yourself. "Does the plan give me freedom or does the plan feed the disease?" But you still stick with the plan, just make a different plan the next day.
SYLVIA: Okay.
COUNSELOR: You remember, you guys I talked about the time that I made the snack foods for lunch and it was pretzels and beef jerky and pepperoni sticks and it was a moderate serving, it fit in my stomach fine, but there was really no nutrients there?
SYLVIA: Right.
COUNSELOR: And when I finished the meal, it didn't matter what I felt. It's like, oh well that was really stupid. I've got to wait until dinner now. You know it's like I'll survive it... Also, if I eat something that sets up the chatter of, "Let's have it again, let's have it again, let's have it again." I just throw that food away. Not all desserts set up the "let's have it again, let's have it again" typically. Once I found out the portion size that works the best for my body, then I didn't even have the physical headaches that come from refined sugar. So there is a learning curve about nutrition and our body, but part of that learning curve that makes a difference is: "I have a disease, I'm not the disease." So try to, all of you, hang on to that concept because I think what happens is, if we think it, or even feel it, we think it's us, and then we're off to the races and it's my belief that no way, you don't have to act on your feeling and thought... just your commitments and decisions.   Once I really got that, you know the next door neighbor concept that I've talked about? If my next door neighbor said, "Hey come on over for brownies, and let's eat just brownies for every meal today." I don't have to be afraid just because I heard the words... I don't have to assign any more importance to the disease chatter that says the same thing as the neighbor... I would think, what's up with that woman. But when it happens in our head, we start to take it seriously
[chuckles]
COUNSELOR: On your homework chapter it says, "I'm willing to pray to God for help and ask for guidance around size servings." So, we can get a reality check. We can find out what's a moderate serving of what... We might just throwing it out to the group or give me a call. Or what's a moderate breakfast that everybody likes? What's their favorite moderate lunch? And throw out an e-mail to the group and see about getting everybody to respond so that you're getting the guidance from people that are working along the same lines you are. And then the other part that I underlined on your homework was just that separation part, I think it was the next sentence. It says, "I'd like to get honest enough to know that I will only eat a moderate serving even if I'm alone. Even if I have feelings about my life that make me want to medicate and overeat." So, the addiction will always want to take any life situation and tell you, "more, now, more, now." In AA they say, "We drink over anything, everything, and nothing in the best of times, the worst of times, and for no reason at all." But that's just our addiction so, but I noticed that part about being alone because that's an early recovery issue.  And I'm glad you brought it up because it's common to all of us... learning to have enough trust in ourselves that we're going to stick with our decisions and our commitments instead of listen to the lies of the addiction. 
COUNSELOR: So, oh and I had one more comment on your homework Sylvia, I have to put a question mark here, let's see. The next one down. "I will now recommit to eating three meals a day, nothing in between. No random eating no matter what."  In parenthesis you say, "I have been doing this, and I will add that I am committing to eating a meal size of only what fits in my two hands." Okay, and I think we talked about that. "This is more honest than I have been lately. I will eat what fits in my stomach. That is enough." And so, really, you know the high moderate is going to feel like it's a tight fit. The low moderate is going to feel like it's a loose fit. But I want to mention that sometimes our stomach won't always be in reality with us, the way the meal fits in our stomach might be influenced by our hormone swings or by being ill. But if we eyeball it ahead of time, that reality will probably be our best bet, especially in the beginning. Good work. Anybody have any comments on either Sylvia's sharing or my comments on it?
PARTICIPANT: Nope. Makes sense.
COUNSELOR: You guys are pretty quiet today. I want to make sure that we take the last few minutes of group and get a chance to say a temporary good bye to Lucy.  But Heather, you said you just wanted to listen to the actual homework, the uniquely average part, right?  So Holly I've got yours in front of me but I don't have it printed out. Do you want to go ahead and talk about yours?
HOLLY: Sure. I've, let me pull it up. [laughs] because I didn't realize that I didn't print my own. You know? As you were going through it, I thought, "God she didn't print yours" so I was trying to get on the computer to print it, try to bring it out. 
COUNSELOR: I, I see a line here in Holly that says, "Moderate is a European serving."
[laughs and chuckles]
COUNSELOR: Pretty true.
HOLLY: Yeah, because that was what I noticed, when I first went to Europe, you know my husband and I were walking everywhere and then I was just eating meals in their restaurants and that contributed a lot to my weight loss. Everything there was moderate. It wasn't even a thought. And they don't, they also, in Ireland there's no take home. They don't allow you to take a part of the meal home.
COUNSELOR: You can't take the food home?
HOLLY: No. It's a legal issue. Because they don't know how long it'll be before you get home and the food could go bad and then you could ultimately sue them because you got sick from the food sitting in the car too long and, so they won't let you take food home.
COUNSELOR: That's a great idea.
PARTICIPANTS: Yeah.
HOLLY: The value is that I pretty much ate in the middle of the moderate the whole trip. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I would say so too.
HOLLY: I think the thing was, when I got rid of my 20 ounce to-go cup, I replaced it with a 16 ounce to-go cup, so there was a way of cutting down my beverages. So now my cups are 16 ounce as opposed to 20 ounce and, but you know what kind of scares me is that I would rather drink a meal than eat it.
COUNSELOR: And do you know why you would rather do that?
HOLLY: You know it's just stopping to prep a meal. Sometimes it's that I'd be running late and before when I was doing dairy, I would rather have stopped and gotten a Chai Tea latte. The latte would be a meal and...
COUNSELOR: And  - 
HOLLY: And I'd know that there were going to be calories involved in it, and I would rather have drank them than eaten them. (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Well, I think everybody knows that I discourage people from drinking and calling it a meal?
HOLLY: Right. I don't disagree with that thought you know? I'm just saying that there are times when, what I have noticed, is that I don't want to stop or I'm looking at my watch and going, "Oh damn, I didn't plan my time well again." And it would be so easy to just drink something knowing it would be filling, as opposed to a meal on my way to a meeting.
COUNSELOR: And so are you saying the struggle is to try to make you in your abstinence a priority?
HOLLY: Yeah. Yeah. It is. So what I've gone back to is having hard boiled eggs in the icebox at all times.
COUNSELOR: So that you can grab them if you are running late?
HOLLY: Yeah, then I just grab a couple of eggs. Having bananas, having apples, having cut up vegetables or you know like bags of carrots or the mini bell peppers, you know something that is crunchy, something that's easy to go.
COUNSELOR: And let me mention, when you hear the chatter that says, and this is to help everybody, not just a response to Holly, but when you hear the chatter that says, "Oh it would be so much easier if I could just drink the meal." I can tell you it's not easier. I mean it's a lie that the addiction is trying to tell us because when we do our Optifast or fasting on our own, we have a backlash that kicks our butt. So, if the addiction tells you it's easier, don't believe it. And too, you know the other thing that helps us do the self-care better is to think, do I really want to tell one of my kids you're not important enough for me to stop and take care of you? I mean that's no message any of us as parents would want to give to a child. And so we don't want to give that same message to ourselves, our inner family, that message that I'm too busy with all the outside things to care about you. So when the addiction tries to set you up for not making yourself and your abstinence a priority with those kinds of delusion statements, the best thing we can do is tell ourself the truth and the truth is that drinking meals is what a lot of us did in our past and that was not a solution. It does have its consequences. And, that we are a precious commodity and that it is our job to care for ourselves in a loving, respectful way and just as we would for any other person we loved. So, just have the things to say back will help you stay solid, to help you stay connected to your recovery path. When we don't know what to say back, it does end up kind of undermining us and so, Holly, I bet you have a lot of things you know to say back to the addiction chatter...  you've learned how to tell yourself the truth back in the beginning of our sobriety and now abstinence, but this one's about taking care of your body and you've become aware that you're still kind of at war with your body and your body image. This is going to be a big one for you to break through. 
HOLLY: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I think you also wrote that on the bottom of you homework. Yeah. That you and I are working to get a peaceful resolution with those warring factions, but as of yet all parties are not yet surrendered.
HOLLY: (crosstalk) My inner family kids and adolescents are not willing to come to the table.
COUNSELOR: Not willing to come to the peace and table and talk. And so, it doesn't mean that just because the kid's pouting at the moment, one of the kids won't talk to us doesn't mean that the parent quits talking to them or trying to reach out. We still keep telling them about the parameters and that we love them. Here are the parameters and that we love them. 
HOLLY: Yeah. It gets into that self-care and it would appear to be a really high priority right now, you know.
COUNSELOR: And I think when you're in the situation you're in, which is you have long-term abstinence and your weight had jumped up 15 pounds, and we're trying to figure why when, in fact, you kind of eat the mid-range, and so we're looking at some of the different issues and health issues to try to understand what would cause the weight jump up. Your inner kids are just more vulnerable. But if you'd broken out with a rash all of over your body, you'd be trying to look at it from as loving a place as you can. Because I like the ease in which you say, "I know I'm eating in the mid-range." You don't have a concern about that. You know you're eating in the mid-range. 
HOLLY: Right.
HOLLY: And the other thing is, I use small plates, you know as a tool. I eat off of at lunch, what they used to call "lunch plates".
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
HOLLY: So I use small plates when I serve myself, to keep my proportions down. I don't use dinner plates. 
COUNSELOR: Does everybody kind of understand that she's not trying to hang out at the low end to moderate?
SYLVIA: Right. I, I have a moment of confusion Josephine. This is Sylvia. About what you just said to Holly that you were talking about her telling the kid kind of what the parameters are?
COUNSELOR: Right.
SYLVIA: And that if she broke out with a rash all over her body, and I wasn't sure where that goes. Like she wouldn't be judgmental of the rash?
COUNSELOR: Right, usually having a rash wouldn't cause body judgment.   She wouldn't necessarily feel that her body turned against her, you know... betrayed her. She would feel like, "Oh my God, wonder what happened. Did I get a new detergent or did I buy a new shampoo? Oh my gosh, what cream can I put on this? Did I eat something to cause it?"  We would be looking for what could have happened as opposed to feeling our body betrayed us. With weight, very often we feel betrayed by our body. It had the nerve to go through puberty and grow breasts and hips of all things, you know. It had the nerve to put on weight when we overate. It had the nerve to start to have problems once we've been abstaining from our addiction. You know you hear it in AA too. Some people get sober but then they find out they have cirrhosis or sometimes people finally get off of smoking and they find out they already have lung cancer. 
PARTICIPANTS: Right.
COUNSELOR: And so we just want to keep coming at it from love. We just want to keep coming at it from compassion. Did that make more sense?
HOLLY: Yeah. To me, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, good. Any other comment Holly? ... Now I want to briefly go over Phyllis' and then we'll take the last few minutes for Lucy and Heather, if you find after I go over Phyllis' homework, you want to jump in, that would be great. Ok, on Phyllis' she says, "Moderation" and then she writes, "This assignment really resonated with me. I find moderation is an issue that I have never really spent much time thinking about before meeting Josephine or starting my abstinence. As someone who has spent many years on the lower end of moderate scale trying to avoid moderation altogether, this was and still is an issue that I have to be rigorously honest about in order to completely surrender and stay on my path of recovery. Moderate is an abstinence issue. A one liner I like to remind myself of every time I consume a meal is that moderate but is not perfect. In other words, eating from all points on the moderate scale is important. In order to fully surrender, I need to be able to slide around on the moderate scale. Life isn't always the same. There may be times when a bigger meal is seven or eight and there may be times when I've eaten like a two or three on the moderate range. Learning to deal with these feelings and allowing myself to not always have the same mid-moderate four or five portion is healthy." And she's using those numbers all in about the moderate range.
Then the next sentence or the next thing she writes is, "What's a moderate of serving of what?" She answers, "To me, when I think about this statement what immediately comes to mind is that moderate is moderate is moderate. Three to four cups of food" - and I'll add in there, uneaten food - "is a moderate serving. However, I would not give someone three to four cups of ice cream for lunch. Keeping moderate portions or keeping portions moderate and getting a variety of healthy, nutritional foods is what will maintain my long-term recovery." 
And then she writes, "Blame the edges of moderation. This is what I was talking about earlier when I was speaking of sliding on the moderation scale. Although I feel it's important for me to eat from the higher end of moderate from time to time, it is also as important for me to not let that get out of hand and let my dieting chatter take place. This is why I feel it's important to be able to not always eat at a three or a four in moderation, because I need to teach my body that it's okay to eat all through the moderate range. That it's not a relapse, that it's not a binge to eat at the high end of moderate. That it's average to feel a little fuller after a Thanksgiving dinner. 
As far as consequences or side effects I've noticed my body go through because of this disease I think the most noticeable one is my Irritable Bowel Syndrome. I didn't have any issues with my Irritable Bowel Syndrome before my eating addiction kicked in. Although it has gotten much better since being since becoming abstinent, I still deal with issues on weekly basis. I have become very angry at myself when I first learned I had IBS. I did a lot of planning. I was very hard on myself. If someone had told me six months ago to thank God for my IBS I probably would have thought they were nuts. However, I now realize that doing this allows me to let go of the issue and the power it has over me. Everything happens for a reason - even my IBS. There will be a gift in it and I don't even know about yet. Blaming myself for getting mad about it will only further worsen the issue and not be advantageous to my recovery/abstinence." So, I thought she did a great job for her first time of getting it sent out to us. I really appreciated that. Any feedback from you guys? 
PARTICIPANT: I'm glad you cleared up what IBS was.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
[laughter]
PARTICIPANT: I didn't know what that was.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Heather? Do you have any feedback on the uniquely average, uniquely average concept or the moderation concept?
HEATHER: Well, I've just been listening in. I pretty much have gotten a lot of everyone's homework and I think I just need to do it... I need to write up my homework and kind of put my thoughts on paper. It all is resonating with me.
COUNSELOR: Good.
HEATHER: I'm very much like Lucy and Sylvia, I'm eating on the high end. I'm eating like around a seven. I'm thinking seven/eight because I've been kind of  jotting down the number next to it after I eat and it's usually about a seven/eight and I want to get it to be like a five or six. And I have a really hard time though really knowing what's moderate because I put together a meal that looks moderate, I eat it and I'm too full. I was in one of your groups once where you brought pictures in of meals? It was like one of the most helpful things I'd ever experienced.  I'm kind of thinking maybe I should just take a picture of my meals and e-mail them to you with a digital camera. [laughs]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Absolutely.
PARTICIPANT: That's a good idea.
HEATHER: Last night I had a bowl of pasta, and it wasn't a huge bowl, and I put some chicken in it and I had a salad. And I thought this looks really moderate to me. But I was really full afterwards and so I'll just say it was high moderate because of the way I felt afterwards.
COUNSELOR: But was it, it was (crosstalk) - 
HEATHER: - When I have a mid-moderate meal, I don't feel that overly full so I'm struggling with understanding the whole concept of the moderate as a range.
COUNSELOR: Yeah it was probably a high moderate serving of pasta if it felt high moderate... because pasta, rice, potato, a moderate serving of those are really only about half a cup of it. 
HEATHER: Half a cup of it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, a half a cup...that's about it.
HEATHER: I didn't know that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And so we're going to feel fuller if you put a high moderate serving of a complex carb.
HEATHER: See for me, a moderate looking meal looks really low when you spent 38 years eating high moderate or outside the moderate range. A half a cup of pasta looks like nothing. I'm like, who eats this? But that's horrible [laughs] so it's just that I have to get used to what it looks like and when I'm eating it and I have it in my body and I'm done and I feel good, then it makes sense. But as I'm eating it, it just doesn't look like enough and I go into this deprivation thing.
COUNSELOR: And so  - 
HEATHER: I'm so afraid I'm not going to be full.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, you know, we can talk in more detail personally but you know we have to look at why we're afraid of being hungry and why or what being full brings us... because it is part of that dependency on the addiction problem.  I've had clients that have done nothing but diet for years and years. If they look at a mid-range moderate meal, to them it looks like a binge.
PARTICIPANT: Wow.
COUNSELOR: It looks like overeating. For those of us who are more used to overeating, you put a mid-range moderate meal in and it looks like a diet. And so we do have to work on getting it into a reality about the moderate range and so a lot of times I'll say to people, why don't you write down what you're eating in portions and also write down where you think it is in the moderate range, and I'll give you a reality check.  So that's one thing I'll do with people. Other times we just brainstorm,... let's brainstorm two or three different breakfasts, two or three different lunches, two or three different dinners, and sometimes when people notice they get higher and higher and higher, meaning breakfast is a three, lunch is a five, dinner's an eight. I'll say let's start eating breakfast in the 5 or 6 range. Take a week and only focus on keeping  breakfast in the more mid-range, which is what we want to teach the body...that it can use food  as fuel. We're going to try to teach the body that we're not going to starve it all day and then give it all the day's calories in the evening.  That will teach the body to store food as fat because it's going to be starved, when it needs the fuel... the body have learned to count on converting the body's fat into fuel for the day's energy.  What we do want to teach the body is that we're going to give it food for energy - it does not have to store it. So we want to get it reversed... to where we're starting to have sixes for breakfast and fives for lunches and fours for dinners. That would probably be a more average healthy way. So just getting into reality about moderate meals and moderate servings is a major change and just like, who was it that told a story about seeing somebody on TV? Heather was that you? 
LUCY: It was me.
COUNSELOR: Lucy. Okay. So, yeah, so if you think in terms of going to Mexican restaurants, a quarter cup of beans, quarter cup of rice mixed together make the half a cup of the complex carbs? That's probably a pretty decent serving.
 
HEATHER: A half a cup of complex carbs?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PARTICIPANTS: [laughs]
\
SLYVIA: It's Sylvia. I'm laughing because I, I think I had the same thing Heather was talking about. Is there any way Josephine that you could send on the Internet some pictures of what you would consider moderate meal? On a plate? Or is that complicated?
COUNSELOR: It's probably outside of my skill...the pictures that I have, I don't know how to scan them yet, so if anybody else like Heather would want to take the pictures and send them out to us and then let us all pull them up and discuss them. That would be fantastic. 
HEATHER: Yeah, I would be happy to take pictures with my digital camera and, I mean it's a little scary to do that because I'm really dealing with a lot of rigorous honesty issues, but it would be a real eye opener for me to get some reality on what moderate is. And I was in a residential out patient and they served moderate and I was surprised. I mean, it's like I knew it but I was still surprised. Kind of a combination of surprise and, like you know in your heart what moderate is but when you're so used to not eating it's just such a change. So I'd be happy to send pictures.
COUNSELOR: And let me just wrap up before we switch to Lucy and say that, in Chapter 5 How It Works, in AA's Big Book, where it mentions honesty three times in that first paragraph of Chapter 5 and it says, "people who cannot or will not completely give themselves to this honesty, their chances are less than average" And it is our willingness to be rigorously honest and self-honesty around moderation that is very, very critical. Very primary for us. We've got to bring it there, so you guys are all sounding like you're ready to get on board to get the freedom that you know you can have from getting that honesty in the moderate arena. Because that's the long term stability you hear Holly so confidently state when she said, "I know I'm eating in the mid-range." You know, it's like, oh my gosh, I want that, I want that. So you guys who are younger in your time, just know that it is what can happen for you...so great, thank you Heather for being willing to do that. 
So, Lucy, I just want to tell you what a joy it's been for me to get to know you in this way and on this recovery path and how beneficial I think your wisdom and you're willingness to bring your level of honesty has been to the group and how it has set a tone for us all... because you've been in the group fairly long, and how it's set a tone for so many of the younger gals, the gals younger to the group. Just an openness and an honesty and so I hope that they pass that onto the gal from Europe that's going to take your place because you've really have brought that level of honesty that all of us really wish we obtain. I so appreciate how committed you're staying to your abstinence and the confidence that you want it to be for a lifetime. So, those are my feedbacks for you and I look forward to checking in with you from time to time and keeping you on the e-mail list. 
LUCY: Thank you very much and I couldn't do any of it without everybody else. [chuckles]
PARTICIPANT: Have a good travel.
LUCY: Thank you. And like I said if any of you guys are willing, please e-mail me your address, I'll stay in touch..
SLYVIA: I was going to ask, this is Sylvia. I was going to ask for everyone's address if people wanted to because I had this amazing article by Anne Lamott, the writer?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. She's a great writer, yeah.
PARTICIPANT: Yeah, I think it was in the Oprah magazine?
HEATHER: It was. Oh my God, I loved it. It's, it's almost the funniest thing I've ever read anywhere. I cried, I laughed, I cried, I was like, oh my God.
PARTICIPANT: Yeah, okay. Holly? Was that you who also read it?
HOLLY: Yeah.
PARTICIPANT: Do you think it's appropriate to share?
SYLVIA: Well she does turn to God in the end, I mean well she does anyway, but she prays, she talks about how she was in the darkness. I think she has a good resolution, but she doesn't have Josephine program which would be so helpful to her. I don't know if she reads fan mail, I should write to her.
COUNSELOR: You should write to her.
PARTICIPANT: Yeah, (crosstalk) she needs it, she needs help.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. All right you guys, lots of love to everybody. Bye bye Lucy, stay in touch.
PARTICIPANT: Bye Lucy.
LUCY: Okay thank you, you too. Bye.
PARTICIPANT: Bye everybody.
END TRANSCRIPT
