TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Evening.
PATIENT: Howdy. Howdy is short for how are you. More stressed out than last week.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah. And, [silence from 0:00:22.8 to 0:00:35.6] I mean...it's so difficult to know where to start, so I'll start out with last week and...Actually whatever we were talking about whenever I left and...you left.
COUNSELOR: Last week at our session?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: When you left, yeah.
PATIENT: Sure...you had acknowledged that, "Yeah, you clearly seemed stressed out." And so forth and so on. And, I think when I left...a couple of things that...and...I tried to enumerate a couple of things that I felt were, a couple of things on my agenda, and you questioned and you said...that, is this going to take three weeks for...however you posed that question. And when I left I thought of a few more things on my agenda that need to be done, and I just felt the futility of the situation where I cannot even enumerate all the things...if I know that I'm feeling terrible and I see a thing and walk right over to the table and get a pencil and paper and see, I'm going to write them all down so that I can deal with them, I can't get past two or three and, or I certainly can't do them all, and, last week's session was like that.
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: In that I, there were more, there were more things on my agenda that, for me, would hopefully justify the time that I said I needed off, because it will, these things will never get done unless I take time off to do them. I...
COUNSELOR: Right. So last session was like what though? You were saying, "Last session was like that..." And I'm not sure what you meant.
PATIENT: Well, I was telling you that I was toying with the idea... [0:03:05.7]
COUNSELOR: Of taking time off, yeah.
PATIENT: ...of taking some time off...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...medically speaking...
COUNSELOR: Sure, to get things, other things done.
PATIENT: ...and to get those other things done.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And logically...you asked me, however the conversation was, "Like what?" And...I was, "Well, 'a' and 'b' and 'c' and so forth and so on." And...we had some kind of discussion about that. And, why it would take so long and then we got into perfection...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...and kind of questioned what I meant.
COUNSELOR: So how'd you, how did you feel walking away from the last session?
PATIENT: Well, that's, it's exactly what I'm getting to. So when I was walking away in the alley like that, I mean, there's also 'e' and 'f' and 'g'. And then I started thinking about perfection, because when we're in here talking about perfection, we're talking about it or I see us, I perceive us, talking about perfection as a way of filling the time, as a way of prolonging the time needed for its completion. In other words, it's kind of saying, well, I...I want to take over one or two or three weeks, so I'll (a) make up some things that I have to do that I feel are very important to my agenda; and, (b) I will employ this sense of perfection so that it will, each one of these things will take a very, very long time and thereby fill up those three weeks.
COUNSELOR: Where do things stand, by the way, are you back at work or are you taking time off?
PATIENT: I went back to work, well, I had been working. I went back to work. I had an extremely stressful two or three days trying to fill that second big order that I had. The client, who was clearly...
COUNSELOR: You're a pain sometimes Greg.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: Are you at work or are you not at work?
PATIENT: I'm, oh, I'm sorry I'm at work.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: When I say the client, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. [0:06:00.4]
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, what I wanted to ask you is, I noticed when I said, 'how did you feel when you left last session?', you didn't answer that.
PATIENT: Oh, well, I started to and I think you asked some, you asked me another question, because I was getting, no, I was getting around to perfection and I...
COUNSELOR: So how do you feel about, how did you feel when you left here?
PATIENT: All right, we'll start all over. I...this is really part of the agenda here that I have today.
COUNSELOR: Do you see how, what I'm saying though, that you didn't really answer that question?
PATIENT: Yeah. I thought I was working my way to it...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...because I started to get, well, angry, because I said...I was walking to the subway or whatever and I said, "Wait a minute! Wait a minute!"
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "You know we're dealing with, first of all, it's my nature to...to sit down and write something as best as possible. Now it seemed that when we were in there..."
COUNSELOR: So you were angry?
PATIENT: That's fine.
COUNSELOR: So you felt angry when you left?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I'm telling you, do you want to know why I'm angry?
COUNSELOR: Well, yeah.
PATIENT: I mean is that important?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that is important...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...but, first of all, it sounds like you were angry but maybe you were angry with me?
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: So that's, okay, now I think we have a little bit of a home base to start with.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now, you felt angry. Did you feel anything else?
PATIENT: Justified.
COUNSELOR: In your anger?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And now you're going, I bet you're going to tell me why you felt justified in your anger, because you actually thought of a lot of other things that you needed to do?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, why did you feel angry with me then?
PATIENT: Because, it appeared to me and it's my perception...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and you're going to say, 'maybe you were projecting or not', but it was like there was an implicit criticism in your, as if to say, "Greg...like you really need all that time just to..."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "...isn't this perfection...kind of a...you're using it as a tool, blah, blah, blah, and so forth and so on." And the, well, the thought that occurred to me, that if I were writing a happy birthday poem to my niece or something...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...it would be the same perfection, the same intent; the same need to make that the best God damn happy birthday...
COUNSELOR: Oh, I don't doubt that.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: I believe that.
PATIENT: And therefore, and therefore, it is not necessarily so that the perfection that we were talking about vise-a-vie the filling up the time, using the time. Why I need three weeks is valid. [0:09:01.8]
COUNSELOR: Okay. So, you're angry with me.
PATIENT: Clear, I want to thank you first, before, thank you for saying, "Greg you're a pain in the ass." Because that's good, that's fine, that's important, it's very important.
COUNSELOR: Did you know why I said that though?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Because you weren't answering my question.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, but I feel that when I try to answer my question, maybe, maybe my answers are too long for you, well, not maybe, for sure, for sure. (counselor chuckling) So in my, either I don't hear the question, and that's possible, but...
COUNSELOR: I think your hearing's pretty good.
PATIENT: Okay. So then, if I hear it...
COUNSELOR: I don't think it's anything wrong with your hearing.
PATIENT: ...then I'm avoiding, and then am I avoiding it? There are three possibilities. I don't hear it. I hear it...
COUNSELOR: You hear it. Okay, that's not a possibility. You hear fine.
PATIENT: Okay. So then...
COUNSELOR: Your hearing is excellent.
PATIENT: ...either I avoid it or I think it requires a fine-tuned answer.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So it's only either 'b' or 'c'?
COUNSELOR: Right. I think, I think, well, I want to address what you said about criticism, because you, it sounds like you felt angry and you felt criticized, and I think you're right. I think I was being critical. I would say now if you, I was being critical of your saying that you might, that you were going to be spending three weeks working on something and that that wasn't perfectionism. And I was, you're right, I was challenging that, and you're right, that was criticism in a certain way. My sense though, Greg, is you want to have your cake and you want it, you want your cake and you want to eat it, too, or whatever the expression is I can't get right. (chuckling)
PATIENT: [inaudible at 0:10:44.5]...
COUNSELOR: Is that you're coming here and you're unhappy about things that are going on in your life. The fact that you can't get your life...
PATIENT: Act straightened up, that's right.
COUNSELOR: ...straightened out and you can't get things done and you can't...you can't get your apartment straightened up, even though you've taken some good steps in that direction since like. But you can't get things done, you can't...you can't get furniture from your ex-wife's house, you can't get your life in order, you can't get things done. So you want to get that done and that causes you pain, and it causes, and there are also problems in your relationships, where you get hung up on things and that causes you pain as well. But you also want to hold onto this perfectionism, or what I see as perfection, that you want to hold onto it in certain areas. So you want it here but you don't want it there, and to me it sounds like...
PATIENT: No, I want it everywhere.
COUNSELOR: You want the perfectionism everywhere...
PATIENT: Well, I mean, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...but I'm not sure then that you're going to be able to change that stuff you're talking about wanting to change. That's my question, how can you expect to get all that stuff done you want to do...
PATIENT: Okay, that...
COUNSELOR: ...if you're not willing to give up some of that?
PATIENT: The perfectionism has nothing to do with the getting furniture or this [overlapping voices at 0:12:02.6]...
COUNSELOR: Oh, nonsense! How so?
PATIENT: No, no.
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: No, no, no, no. Well, when I use the word perfectionist, I mean, when I talk about creating something, creating something that is a reflection of me. That the aspect of the, of getting the furniture is a very painful one because it means going, it means a confrontation, whether benign or otherwise, and it's more like it's, (counselor chuckling) it's more than benign, with my wife saying, "Now the time has finally come and we have to, I want to get my last quarter of the apartment and we have to arrange..."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "...the price and so forth." That that whole concept is so onerous to me, because it was so painful to me at the beginning that I walked away from it. Not only that, that my lack of...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...full participation with my attorney, whose my cousin and which makes things sticky so...it's very difficult to criticize saying, "Why weren't you here when we had the meeting?" You know, with Jen and her lawyer and me and my lawyer, and it was her lawyer and Jen and my lawyer and me talking quiet when we were all there, and I said, "Why didn't you say anything?"
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know, it was that kind of thing. So at Christmas my uncle said, "Well, how are things?" I said, "Well...I'll tell you how things are. I think the market has finally come back and I'm about to ask Jen..." And so forth and so on. And...he wasn't terribly much for it. "Yeah, yeah, I guess it is." And so forth. But I'm faced with, now I'm faced with not redoing but finishing, completing that which was so onerous to me that I simply had to walk away from it, and perfection has nothing to do with that, except to complete it with as little rancor as possible.
COUNSELOR: Right. I wonder if they're somehow related? Because I think part of what perfectionism is about, is having control over something, right? Having control over how something works out. That you have complete or as near complete control as possible.
PATIENT: Well...
COUNSELOR: Okay? I mean you just sit here [overlapping voices at 0:14:23.5]... I mean I don't know what perfection is if it's not that.
PATIENT: Well, it's not so much the control; no, no, no, control is the verb. When I think of perfection, I think of the result or the object, the result, the predicate. The great poem, not control...of, it's not even, it's not even, and it's not control over me and of my choices and so forth. It's a matter of how much creativity is in me that could select the right words that will go so well together...that's not a matter of control, it's a matter of creativity, which is another animal. [0:15:07.0]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. We could get at, we could get into a whole debate about what it is, but I see your point. There's a part of it that's about creativity, creating something that you want to create.
PATIENT: That's the letters and that's the reports and that's my complaints and all the stuff on paper, control. But when we talk about furniture, when we talk about the, this whole Workman's Compensation thing, yes!
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: I want control or I, or, well, the other side of the coin is, I don't what them to be controlling me and manipulating me as they are.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So, yeah, they'll have, very much an element of control there.
COUNSELOR: Right. So that's true of the letters and that's true of...
PATIENT: No, not the letters, well, yeah, well, okay.
COUNSELOR: The letters [overlapping voices at 0:15:57.2]... as people?
PATIENT: Okay, the letters. Okay, so that's a combination of two...
COUNSELOR: I'm not talking about in writing a poem now.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: I'm talking about your business...
PATIENT: Now you, okay. Now we're in a combination of control...
COUNSELOR: I don't know.
PATIENT: ...and creativity.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I think, well, maybe if you're putting a lot of effort into creativity to (chuckling) writing letters to your lawyer, that's a whole other problem, cause they might...
PATIENT: Well, I mean, when I'm writing...
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) Because that's not a great way to...
PATIENT: No, we're not writing a letter to, how you characterize it as to my lawyer. It's really to be read or to be heard...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...by the Workman's Compensation Board.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And what I'm talking about is a lawyer's delivery to the jury, to a judge and jury, that's what I'm talking about.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Because if I lose here, I mean, first of all I'm losing any...
COUNSELOR: Greg, you are a pain in the ass! (hitting desk and chuckling)
PATIENT: Good! Good!
COUNSELOR: (still chuckling) You're a big pain in the ass. I feel like we can't talk about this because we end up sparring. Because it's, every time I try to say something, you have to justify it. That's your whole deal is you have to justify and explain everything, and then I feel that you're not [overlapping voices at 0:17:04.2]...
PATIENT: Well, how do I feel about, how about disagree?
COUNSELOR: Huh?
PATIENT: How about...and disagree...I disagree with your...
COUNSELOR: I agree and that I've no problem with, you can disagree. But then I, and get angry with me, that's fine, I don't mind that. But where I think we get stuck is this justification like, and I don't know how to respond to it...you come up with like all the reasons why you have to do something. If that's how you really feel, then that's okay, then it's all right. If you really feel happy about the way you're doing things, that's okay. And I don't want [overlapping voices at 0:17:39.8]...
PATIENT: Oh, happy about the way I'm doing things?
COUNSELOR: ...and I don't want to change that. I, but what I'm not clear about is what you do want to change. [silence from 0:17:47.4 to 0:18:07.1]
PATIENT: You're asking me essentially, what's on my agenda? I want to change. I want to make changes in my job. I want to create a grievance against some management in the job. These are things that will make me happy and I think they are also very important. I want to, I want to best Macy's Department Stores in their control of my medical situation, since they've cut off, they've essentially said, "You know you're okay, you're fine." Whatever, and so forth and so on. I want to refute them legally. I want to...
COUNSELOR: Greg?
PATIENT: Yeah?
COUNSELOR: that sound like your goals for your life right now, and for those goals you could hire an employment agency and lawyers to accomplish...
PATIENT: [inaudible - overlapping voices at 0:19:25.3]...
COUNSELOR: ...those goals, to find you a new job. What I'm asking is, were you sort of unhappy even before you had this current job and before you had these current legal...
PATIENT: I was in the depths of depression.
COUNSELOR: Even before you had this current job?
PATIENT: Specifically, until I...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...went on the Prozac program.
COUNSELOR: Right. Okay. What I'm wondering then is, is there something about you, those are things in your life that you want to change. That you want to get a new job, you want to change the Worker's Comp., and those are fine goals. I'm not sure how much I can do about those things to get you...how much I can do to find you a new job or to get your case...settled or...get you more Workman's Comp. What I'm wondering though is, is there something about you that you want to change? Something about how you feel about yourself was there even before this job, even before this case, this Workman's Comp. situation, and I think it's all getting, you're really focused on those things now, but something was there even before that, right?
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: So, what is it about you?
PATIENT: Well, the basic thing is that I...
COUNSELOR: I'm asking you a hard question. I'm asking you...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...to say...you can say you want to change your job, the job's the problem, the Workman's Comp. case is the problem, and they are obstacles, they are things in your life now. But you've had problems that have preceded those issues... [0:21:03.3]
PATIENT: Yeah. They're very basic.
COUNSELOR: ...and I'm asking you the tough question, to say, what is it about yourself that you think you can change, that you have control over?
PATIENT: No, wait, that's a different question. Well, I think what you asked are, what do you really, what are the big problems that preceded this and that are much more basic to you? I think, that's the question I heard from you, that's the question I interpreted your statement to be.
COUNSELOR: What I'm saying is that you're talking about wanting to change external things in your life.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I'm asking you about the internal Greg.
PATIENT: That's right. That's basic.
COUNSELOR: What are the internal things that you want to change [overlapping voices at 0:21:40.9]...
PATIENT: Oh, that I want to change? First let me identify them. Total lack of self-esteem.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Feeling of failure. A number of experiences of curdling relationships.
COUNSELOR: Souring relationships, souring?
PATIENT: Souring.
COUNSELOR: Do you mean souring...
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...relationships?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So, okay.
PATIENT: Not being able to deal with things until too late, at which point I explode, and therefore, deal with them in a...
COUNSELOR: Poorly.
PATIENT: ...poorly.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: [silence from 0:22:48.3 to 0:22:56.7] A warped sense of myself.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now let me just stop you there. That could, a warped sense of yourself and you were talking about low self-esteem. How do you feel about yourself now?
PATIENT: You mean this moment or?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, this moment in general, how do you feel about yourself?
PATIENT: Terrible, but that's not specific.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's if, maybe it's a feeling though. It doesn't have, I'm not asking for specifics. I'm asking you how you feel about yourself, and that may be the first thing that came in, you feel like, terrible?
PATIENT: A little better than when I walked in.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But in general how do you feel about yourself?
PATIENT: Lousy!
COUNSELOR: Lousy?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You know, Greg, I think that's really where our work lies. I think that if we're, my sense is that, we need to focus a little bit more on that, on how lousy you feel about yourself, that I think that's still at the core here. That we've been dancing around it in other ways, focusing on these things which are not, and this is not meant to minimize how important these things are that are going on in your life, but I think in some ways we've been dancing around on the outside and missing what's at the center, which is you and how you feel, which is lousy about yourself. Like your sense, like you feel like a failure, low self-esteem, and I think we need to look at that and really address that.
PATIENT: Isn't it very, I mean, clearly I'm the guy who enumerated them, so...I appreciate what those problems are. But I view those as very strategic things, as opposed to tactical, aids to just...to get over something. And to finish my walk to the bus last week, what made me angry at the third part of the whole was, and then Dan said, "Well, no, wait a minute. How do you feel right now? Right now how do you feel?" Well, I said...I said...I don't remember, I suppose I gave you an answer...or whatever the answer was, angry or...whatever I said. But Jesus! I have enough on my plate that to, of real, in your face problems, and I'm walking out having been asked what, how I feel at this particular moment, which going home, only adds one more problematical thing in my life, as to what's happening or not happening here. [0:26:19.3]
COUNSELOR: Well, I missed the last part of that.
PATIENT: Well, there's the dissatisfaction with the psychotherapy.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So in addition to 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f', now there's 'g' also, the list has grown.
COUNSELOR: Right. So in addition to all the other problems, you have to deal with feeling unhappy about how the therapy is going?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is that how you, have you heard that question, when I was asking you how you were feeling now was asked, did you hear it as sort of, how do you feel about the therapy?
PATIENT: No, no, no, no. How do you feel? What's your emotion right now? You were asking...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and to me it says, oh...that the core of the question, to me the question is, what's the relevance? What's the real relevance to my very real problems, which I bring here and lay out on the table?
COUNSELOR: Right. What's the relevance of what, how you feel?
PATIENT: Yeah, "Greg, how do you feel at this moment?" What does, I mean, how is that helping me reduce the stress that I'm having with...at Macy's or...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...with the Workman's Compensation, not, with Macy's and so forth, that's...
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess your answer is, that it didn't help reduce the stress.
PATIENT: Of course. No, what I'm saying is that it added, because it added another unit.
COUNSELOR: Because instead of, because all it did was sort of make you feel like this isn't helping?
PATIENT: Well, it gave me...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...one more thing to cogitate about, one more thing to view on the list, and...if I'm not thinking about Macy's, then I'm thinking of...whatever.
COUNSELOR: So then psychotherapy can come; become just another problem on the list.
PATIENT: Yeah, sure.
COUNSELOR: It can become another thing to think about and ruminate about...
PATIENT: Yeah, it's a concern.
COUNSELOR: ..."Is it helpful or is it not helpful?"
PATIENT: Yeah. And...and I feel that I have so much to do, again, I really couldn't change. There were several other things I thought of and I said, "My God! I should have told him that I have to do 'd' and 'e' and 'f'." And so forth...which I couldn't think of because, I mean, then there's something really wrong with me. And I mean, there's such an aversion, it would seem to me that of all the things I have to do and all the minutiae of my life, that I simply repress it all and...once in a while something floats to the surface. But there's a great deal of repression of the, to the triteness (ph) of my life, the bullshit, the little things that nickle and dime me to death, in the psychologically and so forth. So I mean, well, this is one more thing, but...it's just taking the place of my thoughts about something. You know, when I wake up in the morning, and when I say morning I'm talking about bathroom call...it could be 5:00 and this happened...well, 5:00 I go to the bathroom, I mean, as soon as the eyes, as soon as consciousness permits I'm having this dialogue with or going, this problem with this account, this big account, where my management let me down and so forth. And I mean, as soon as the eyes open and so forth and so on, and I can't get to sleep anymore, I say, "What's the point?" That, "There's no point in trying...it's 5:45, oh, shit! Get up and make coffee and read the Times." And so forth and so on. That's how much it preoccupies me. Now, and so, okay. [0:30:01.9]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So then, so when you, if I come here once a week, it's like this is not enough. It's...maybe, if this were psychoanalysis, and I'm not sure that it's true anyway, but only in the sense of three, four, five times a week, where one can finish and get over and work to death one or...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...another particular something...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...nothing happens, I don't take a step forward here. Because here I am, I wake up at five in the morning and the flutter my mind is cogitating and my teeth are grinding about 'a', 'b', 'c' or 'd'.
COUNSELOR: Absolutely. So, I hear what you're saying. So do you think then that all of that stuff, the worrying, the cogitating early in the morning, the worrying about everything, do you think that has anything to do with how you feel? With your emotions...
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, I...I've been in...
COUNSELOR: ...with your emotional experience with your sense of yourself?
PATIENT: I have too much experience, psychoanalytical or as psycho anally (ph) inclined psychotherapeutic experience, to deny that there's got to be very direct connects in ways that I cannot necessarily intuit or maybe...
COUNSELOR: Well, right, but...
PATIENT: Sure! I mean...there's, I believe in relationships...I just can't make the connections...at the moment, at the spur of the moment. It may be helpful, as a matter of fact it would be helpful, if for example, I say three or four times a week and we just grabbed onto one of those things and connected one of the emotions to it and then tried to see where the, how the connections are and so forth and so on...that may be profitable and beneficial and so forth. But in this very limited, this is limited to 45 minutes as opposed to...
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:32:09.4]...
PATIENT: ...40 hours a week of whatever...
COUNSELOR: You used to do that, right? You used to do the psychoanalysis. You did a more intensive therapy...
PATIENT: No, no. I mean, actually I was doing twice a week.
COUNSELOR: Twice a week.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So it was more intensive, okay.
PATIENT: Yeah...twice a week. But, and after a...after a long, long, long, long, long time I just felt we were spinning our wheels and everything, really wasting time. I should say that part of the problem was that at the end I wasn't working, I was in a depression and so forth and so on, and I was kind of in a state of studying my navel...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...so there wasn't much outside...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...activity to build...
COUNSELOR: Right, to go on. Now you have some outside activities [overlapping voices at 0:32:58.7]...
PATIENT: Exactly, yeah, sure.
COUNSELOR: ...now and you can't [slow it down.] (ph) But I think we also have, well, yeah, and I hear what you're saying...you don't want, but I wonder if this is the chance to balance that a little bit, too. You have the outside activity, so you have the grist for the mill out there. You have the sort of stuff to work on, real-life stuff, and you also have yourself, your internal states, to still work on.
PATIENT: And my son, my relationship with my son.
COUNSELOR: And your relationships.
PATIENT: Maybe what [overlapping voices at 0:33:26.8]...
COUNSELOR: And that's what I'm, when you were saying souring relationships...curdling, right? You said curdling relationships, and you've talked about your son and your ex-wife and even your...
PATIENT: And Lisa.
COUNSELOR: ...and Lisa and the therapist before, having you were saying, feeling things, you were spinning your wheels. Maybe that one of the things that we'll have to deal with is the souring of this relationship...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...and understand why that happens with you. Why is it that you relationships with people go sour? What happens? And I wonder...
PATIENT: If we can just stick with that.
COUNSELOR: ...if it's happening now? That our relationship, somehow you're feeling, right now, like it's more of a burden than a help, which I suspect is how you felt about other relationships in the past, too, or that they're not giving you much right now. But somehow it's souring. Let's just, I'll stick with this relationship now. Somehow it's not going right but...
PATIENT: I'm saying that the, I think the only way it would become beneficial is that if we, if it's possible to do so...to confine...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...ourselves to that, so that we could work that to...inspect every corner. Yeah, I mean...I can't we should artificially confine itself...
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: ...it's just that if we come in next week and I talk about the new pimple on my face and so forth and so on, this goes down the drain, it doesn't collect, it doesn't build, it doesn't stick.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, I think you're right. We can't artificially confine the therapy and say, "Well, we can only talk about one thing." Because I think that's sort of limits your, artificially limits your feeling...
PATIENT: Well, it's...
COUNSELOR: ...whatever you're feeling. But I think...you have focused in some ways by saying, "You know, I still feel like, I still feel lousy about myself and I feel lousy about my relationships with other people." [0:35:41.4]
PATIENT: Let's, let's try to keep it to this, and then you can put a value on today's session because I can't. I think I could but. I came here saying, "You know, Dan, 'a' and 'b' and 'c'..." As I explained, and then when you said, "Well, how are you feeling right now?" I said, "Well, shit! Now I have something new on my, this is not working." And...if it were several times a week, if it were strategic things and so forth and we had the time and so forth, but right now I'm wasting my...three hours of my time and maybe I ought to cut this short. That's exactly what I was coming to say. So my question to you now is, I mean, today was better in a sense that...maybe you asked the right questions or...I'm not sure, but can we continue? Is there a, do you see a way to capitalize on this? That's my question.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think, what I wonder is, what made you feel, when you left here, like this was more of a problem than help? What was it that you were feeling?
PATIENT: It's preoccupied me. It took a few hours for me.
COUNSELOR: Right. Okay.
PATIENT: And, I didn't walk out feeling better.
COUNSELOR: It left you feeling worse.
PATIENT: Right. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It left you feeling worse, not better.
PATIENT: Three, number three, I have to do homework.
COUNSELOR: Right. Okay, that pisses you off too, because you have to do homework and you don't like doing that stuff anyway...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...that's annoying.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So there's a whole lot of stuff that was pissing (chuckling) you off at the end of last session. So I wonder if it made you feel worse, so I wonder because it made you feel worse, if there was some way in which last session made you feel lousier or more like a failure or sort of threatened your self-esteem more? I wonder if there was some way in which last session really got to you?
PATIENT: Yeah. See it would've, it would be, what comes to mind again, so it must be real, the, your saying or my perception of your saying, in effect, "Greg, you're sitting there trying to tell me that you're going to, it's going to take you three weeks..."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "...to do three letters?" I think that's it.
COUNSELOR: So my criticism?
PATIENT: Sure!
COUNSELOR: Which made you feel how?
PATIENT: Well, like a phony, like an idiot...
COUNSELOR: Like a phony, okay.
PATIENT: ...like a ne'er-do-well, like a, all of which may be true too, you know. But...
COUNSELOR: But now just go with how what I said made you feel...
PATIENT: Oh, oh!
COUNSELOR: ...because it sounds like you felt phony, you felt...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You really felt attacked it sounds like, or at least kind of berated, criticized. [0:38:45.7]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, surely, pretty sure.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You were skeptical. You were so...
COUNSELOR: Absolutely.
PATIENT: So there was an element of, "Hey, don't kid me."
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you heard it, not as my being skeptical of things you were doing or ways you were thinking, but as being skeptical about you, challenging you?
PATIENT: Actions is character. Action is character, that's what the great playwright will learn, that's what makes a great playwright. You don't say, "Oh, here...I love to drink tea." Sit there drinking tea all, for the three acts and the audience knows that I love to drink tea. God bless you.
COUNSELOR: Excuse me. (sneezing)
PATIENT: So how I act is what I am.
COUNSELOR: But it made you so, anyway, but the way you walked out feeling was, sort of lousier about yourself?
PATIENT: Lousier about myself and...
COUNSELOR: You were pissed off at me?
PATIENT: Yeah, don't, don't...
COUNSELOR: Sorry.
PATIENT: Lousy about myself, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, I'll let you finish.
PATIENT: Pissed off at you...to a certain extent, and not as much as you think, but like, "God! I'm wasting, I'm just wasting my time." Because now I have to shlep home to 85th and Jefferson and... (big sigh)
COUNSELOR: Okay, I hear that part.
PATIENT: ...it wasn't profitable...there was no profit.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Actually, there was...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...less, it cost it cost me! (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) Yeah, real was right. But what I want to understand is, what made you feel, I understand that it was not profitable, that you walked away, that you sense was it wasn't, it was a waste of time, it was, in fact, it was a negative experience. So what I'm trying to understand is, exactly what made it a negative experience and what happened between us that made it that way? And what happened to how you felt about yourself and what happened in our relationship, since those are the things that I think are good for us to focus on? And if, go on.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm just trying to add to the things that I felt, the...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...how I was feeling, and I don't think I can think of anything else, that, I mean, I'm trying.
COUNSELOR: That's enough. Boy...
PATIENT: Oh!
COUNSELOR: ...if I walked away feeling worse about myself and angry, I can see how you wouldn't want to come back and see that, boy, that's plenty.
PATIENT: Well, okay.
COUNSELOR: Well, not that you're, (chuckling) that's, those are pretty strong feelings.
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: I think, you know.
PATIENT: I...I can't answer that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I assume you're saying... [0:41:43.2]
COUNSELOR: Well, look, certainly I think the thing to add to that is...one is, I say you're a pain in the ass and I think you are, and the other part of that is I like you.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: You're a pain in the ass but I like you.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you do know that?
PATIENT: But I think that's true of...I can be a pain in the ass...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...because...
COUNSELOR: And the other thing is, it's certainly not my intention to make you feel worse about yourself...
PATIENT: Oh, that I know.
COUNSELOR: ...and to, really to criticize you as a person and to have you walk away feeling worse.
PATIENT: I know that.
COUNSELOR: However, I think that can happen occasionally in any kind of relationship where two people are trying to understand each other. And I'm trying to understand you and something happened with us and you ended up, I ended up saying, "Yeah, I was critical." And you ended up feeling worse about yourself and worse about our connection.
PATIENT: At last week.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I was delighted for you to say, "Greg, you're a pain in the ass." I mean to me that's progress.
COUNSELOR: What delights you about that?
PATIENT: That you're reading me correctly. You're telling me, in a way that I appreciate, it's very candid. You know, one of Levine's (ph) laws of living, 'when in doubt, use candor'...and except for certain, where you're going to get killed or something.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And that's good...it was with a smile, "Greg, you know you're a pain in the ass." And I was thinking, "Thank God! Now it's the real you talking." Not as a doctor or as a psychologist or something...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...but with the perception that comes with that.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And your saying, 'you're a pain in the ass', which is very graphic, which is another way of saying, 'you're very frustrating to me', and then you have to say why you're frustrated and which probably gives me the opportunity to tell you why you're frustrated, because I want you to have the full answer and you don't want the full answer or we don't understand each other and we're talking this way and all that good stuff, but at least there's a healthy confrontation there, there's candor and that's very valuable, and if we're lucky something good comes out of it that I can take home and say, "Ghee, that was valuable." I don't know that it's applicable right now to any particular, in a specific [overlapping voices at 0:44:29.5]...
COUNSELOR: But something about the way I said that made you feel, it felt honest, you have felt all right with me...
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...is that, do you usually feel that I'm not honest or direct with you?
PATIENT: No, no. It's just refreshing, it's like you opened up...it's...
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: ...refreshing...that's good, good stuff, that's fine. And I can smile and say, "Well, let's find out why...and then maybe we can clear this up." That's wonderful. Sure. You're making good progress. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: I'm making good progress? Okay, well, that's good to hear. I'm glad that I'm making good progress.
PATIENT: (chuckling) Twice in today's session.
COUNSELOR: But you're still a pain in the ass, you know? (chuckling)
PATIENT: But I'm still a pain, right, that's right. So I'm...
COUNSELOR: So I'm making, so I'm getting better but you're not, so...
PATIENT: You're getting better but (chuckling) [inaudible at 0:45:20.6]... all right, but...
COUNSELOR: So why do you think I said that? Why do you think I said that you're a pain in the ass? And what...
PATIENT: I think you just wanted to try a different approach in telling me what you, how you are frustrated at my apparently not, either not hearing you correctly or hearing you correctly but giving you an evasive answer or an unresponsive answer or whatever...that's a big statement.
COUNSELOR: It is.
PATIENT: You know if you're talking to me, I'm pretty sensitive, I'm pretty perceptive and so forth, so that's a pretty big statement. To somebody else it may not be but to you, coming from our relationship...
COUNSELOR: Well, I wonder if the more important part of it is not what I said but, as you were saying, the way I said it? In other words, the content wasn't so important, maybe the content...is important but maybe more important is the process that I was, that you experienced as being more direct, more in that...
PATIENT: That's why I thank you, I mean I thought it was wonderful, sure. Yeah. But it's not either/or, it's both, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So there's something refreshing about that to you?
PATIENT: Absolutely!
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Absolutely. Because...you said it, it was, "Greg, you're a pain in the ass." And I thought that was very, to me that was very spontaneous...it was good it was good. So and spontaneity allows me to be...
COUNSELOR: A little more spontaneous.
PATIENT: ...spontaneous, too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's less intellectual on both our parts.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: It's...I'm, look, you must understand that on that floor there, there are people who love me, they think I'm the greatest thing since sliced bread, and there are a couple of people who cannot stand me. And that's what we're talking about here... [0:47:33.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and it's very peculiar and I am sensitive to it...
COUNSELOR: So both sides of this, we're talking about both sides of this? You're saying that some people really, really like you, you're the best thing since sliced bread, (chuckling) and some people...
PATIENT: Other people.
COUNSELOR: ...other people don't like you?
PATIENT: No, at all. I'm a pain in the ass, I'm a whatever...I'm not sure how they, I'm sure they perceive me as a pain in the ass but I, it's hard for me to be more, to put a finer point on it...exactly why I'm a pain in the ass. I, oh, I'll give you one reason, because I confront. If...if something is brought up, I'll confront them and I'll be very candid. And if they say, "You're a pain in the ass." I'll say, "Go fuck yourself."
COUNSELOR: So how come you didn't tell me to go fuck myself?
PATIENT: Because you didn't warrant it.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: No. No, no. I'm talking about some serious stuff. I'm talking about some guy who took it upon himself...a year ago to say, "Why don't you go over there and get off the floor..." and so forth, "...and use that register because you're tying up things." And so forth and so on. And I thought that it was the manager who put him up to it and so forth and so on, and I walked over to him and, "Ted, who suggested that I should go over, off the floor, out to that end?" And up to this point we're getting along well and he happens to be a manufacturer's representative, he's like the liaison, so he's got more of a rapport with the manager and so forth, and he's gay and Katie (ph) loved only gays and so forth and so on. I said, "Who told you?" He said, "You know you're a big pain in the ass. I don't want to have anything to do with you." You know, out of the blue, you know. And I said, "Ah, go fuck yourself." And it was then, and I still wasn't sure whether he was protecting Katherine (ph) or he had taken it upon himself. And I have since learned, like a newcomer. I'm shop steward I think I told you. One of the, a new employee...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...over to me and he said, "You know what he did to me?" And so, and he did something terrible to him and he told him that he had to do something back in the wrapping room, which is absolutely, I said, "Wait 'til you're here six months and your solid and I'll do a grievance against him if you want." But that's the kind of guy Ted is. So I let him know in kind, I mean...he hates me or he...whatever. He invites, he lives very near the store, and so he invites most of the people up.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay, that's, that's enough of the story. So, you know.
COUNSELOR: All right. Well, we need to stop for today.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: But...maybe we've opened up things a little bit. I agree, if, I think it's helpful if we can...as you're saying, something happened that was a little less intellectual, more just gut level, I think. And maybe that's a bit of an opening for you and for, for both of us to try to figure out what's going on. [0:50:47.3]
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: You're looking at me expectantly though...
PATIENT: No, no, no, it's really...
COUNSELOR: "Okay, I'm not sure about that."
PATIENT: ...I'm saying I should bring a sheet and have you fill it out and send it in on me.
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: So they can judge me on how good are you. (both chuckling) I'm reversing the process and saying I should fill out a sheet...
COUNSELOR: For work so that I can fill it out?
PATIENT: No, and you should judge me on how good a patient or how bad a patient.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I have my own sheet.
PATIENT: Oh! Oh, you do? (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Yes, I have my own sheet and it's very similar to yours.
PATIENT: So they match you against me and they say whose lying, who's obfuscating, who's...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: Exactly. They match our reality against each other's.
PATIENT: You know I understand that's needed but...
COUNSELOR: It's a pain it's...
PATIENT: I'm delighted to hear that you think it's a pain, too. You know unless you're just being just...
COUNSELOR: No. No, I do. (both chuckling) [0:51:43.5]
END TRANSCRIPT
