
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
RESOLVING GRIEF
CONNIRAE ANDREAS
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Introduction
CONNIRAE: About three years ago Steve and I began modeling the grief process using submodality modeling techniques that we learned from Richard Bandler. We also used our knowledge of how people represent time, another area that we'd been exploring. Some people are absolutely devastated by loss, and can remain preoccupied by a loss that may have occurred years in the past. Others recover from loss quickly and in such a way that they think of the lost person as a resource as they go on with their lives. By studying these people we developed a pattern that can be used to help anyone recover from loss quickly, typically in one session. The demonstration that you are about to see was videotaped in our master practitioner training in Boulder, Colorado, December 1987. 
CONNIRAE: So if you haven't gathered already this morning we are teaching the grief pattern and we'd like to give you a little bit of background before we demonstrate it.
STEVE: And a little bit of definition, because there are a lot of things that are called grief and some of them aren't, and if it's not, then this pattern won't work for it.
CONNIRAE: So what we are talking about when we talk about grief is some kind of loss. Now this could be loss of people. That's what people usually think of when they think about grief. So it could be loss due to death, due to divorce, whatever, loss of people. It could also be loss of information, loss of things.
STEVE: Some people grieve more over a diamond ring than they will over a human being. Some people will grieve over the loss of a location, their home. Aldous Huxley had a home that was-the walls of his studies were just covered with books and all his books were resources to him and he also had a special chair described in Patterns I (The Patterns of the Hypnotic Techniques of Milton H. Erickson, MD) where he went into trance essentially, in this chair and did his creative work. When his house burned down in a forest fire, he suffered a tremendous loss, not only of location but also of information because he just couldn't get to all that stuff anymore. He had books that were out of print many many years before. Athletes who lose-have an injury-lose something.
CONNIRAE: Lose activity.
STEVE: Again as important to them as a person would be to someone else. 
CONNIRAE: So access to certain activities, things, people, location.
STEVE: Now there is also an interesting thing about grief and that is people can respond to a loss of potential as much as a loss of actuality.
CONNIRAE: This is what a midlife crisis is all about, right? So here I am 40 years old and I'm not a millionaire.
STEVE: Or I thought I was going to be a CEO by the time I was 35 or whatever. A woman who expects to have a child and finds out at the age of 25 or 30 that she can't, suffers a loss. 
CONNIRAE: So these are potential losses. They are not something that a person has actually lost. It's not something that was ever there to lose, but it's something that the person had in their mind that they could have or would have, and they no longer have that hope or dream. The reason we bring this up is because it helps make it clear that the experience of loss does not have to do with the real world. 
STEVE: It has to do with the loss of an experience, or a representation of an experience.
CONNIRAE: In your mind. 
STEVE: That points the way toward a solution. Now the other side is also interesting. You can all probably think of someone who is special to you but is not present in this room. They might be five miles away or five thousand miles away, but you still have a sense of them as being with you. It doesn't feel like a loss, right? Even though they are not actually here.
CONNIRAE: So if I think of my kids-over five or six miles away-I can think of them and enjoy them as if they were present, in my mind. I'm sure that you have people like that you can do that with, or people that you can think about who were buddies in high school or college, best of friends. Even though they are not with you now, they might seem like-
STEVE: And you may never expect to see them again, but still if you think back to those people they are a felt resource for you, they feel good to you. It does not seem like a loss. So if you can do these things, it kind of points the direction the grief pattern goes in. Now there are a couple of other things that we want to mention too, and that is there are some other things that often accompany grief and can be mixed up with it, but you have to deal with it separately.
CONNIRAE: So we want to alert you to them so that you can sort them out. One of these categories we are calling subsequent responses to grief. 
STEVE: So after you feel a sense of loss, then you may feel anger, or depression, or bitterness.
CONNIRAE: Resentment.
STEVE: Resentment.
CONNIRAE: "That jerk how could he leave me now? Why did he die on me? Just when I need him?"
STEVE: That may seem silly but a lot of people feel that. They feel abandoned because someone died. They were hit by a truck-it wasn't their fault, but boy, they still feel abandoned. 
CONNIRAE: They still feel angry and resentful about it. 
STEVE: Now these typically, once you take care of the grief, and the person no longer feels a sense of loss, these just vanish because if you don't have the loss-
CONNIRAE: -there's nothing to be angry about.
STEVE: There's nothing to be angry about. So those you don't even have to mess with, most of the time. You clean up the grief and they just vanish, they just change, they are just no longer appropriate. Now another thing that is often mixed in is that if the loss was violent or ugly-someone had a terminal disease and got somewhat less than human before they actually died, or someone died in a very violent accident. There can be a phobic response that is temporally associated at the same time to the same person, so you have do deal with that and you all know how to deal with that with the phobia cure. Now there is a third category of responses-
CONNIRAE: -that are responses towards loss and this might include things like being relieved that someone is gone, even though you valued them and so on, there may be ways in which you are kind of relieved that it's all over, so it's just a different response. You may want to separate that out. That's not what you are dealing with with the grief process. 
STEVE: And it's actually quite easy to separate out. Just say, "Nobody's perfect. I'm sure that this person that you valued also had behaviors and experiences that you didn't value. Those you're not sorry you lost. Anyone would be relieved of that. So just separate in your mind those things that you valued about this experience, this person, this activity, whatever, from the stuff that you didn't." OK in a slightly different direction-
CONNIRAE: Do you have any questions about this part so far? Make sense?
MAN 1: What about tangibles? Someone talks about losing their job and they go through the grieving process.
STEVE: Yes.
CONNIRAE: Yeah, that's like losing activities or things. Depends on what-
STEVE: It depends on the person. 
CONNIRAE: Am I losing the money?
MAN 1: There's the money and there's the sense of self, or in terms of self-worth.
STEVE: Yes. 
CONNIRAE: Yeah, sometimes any of these things can be tied into a person's sense of self-worth, so it's a good thing to keep in mind too.
STEVE: But see, depending on the person-the loss of a job could be a loss of people. Some people get a job just so they can hang out with other people. For some people, its money and whatever money would buy. It could be again activities, or whatever.
CONNIRAE: Some people really enjoy doing the job, so it's a loss of the activity itself.
STEVE: The activity itself. Or it might be the self-esteem. So the self/other distinction does come in here-that some people lose something and it's just the thing itself, other people lose it and it's what it means to them as a human being and so on-their status or whatever. Now there are a number of beliefs-Oh, sorry.
MAN 2: Could you give me an example of a phobic response? I'm not sure if I understand.
STEVE: Phobic response.
CONNIRAE: Yeah. Someone died in a traumatic accident.
STEVE: You were there.
CONNIRAE: Even if you weren't, someone told you about it and you created movies in your mind, kind of thing. So every time you think about that person you think about the bloody gory scene and you freak out. 
MAN 2: Oh, OK. All right.
STEVE: See, a lot of people don't distinguish between the phobic fear response or response to unpleasantness, and the loss, because it's kind of mixed in all together. In order to deal with it you really got to separate it out because what you do with it is exactly the opposite.
MAN 2: OK.
STEVE: So you got to deal with it separately.
MAN 3: It would seem to me that people who go through a real painful death from cancer would have, in other words the survivors would have a lot of that same kind of-
STEVE: Yeah. I met a guy like this just recently and it was quite interesting, because in the terminal process and she ended up-he lost his wife a year ago due to cancer and in the last stages of this she became comatose and of course was not that much fun to be around. But in between times there was a long period of illness and unhappiness and ugliness, but in between times he had some very special times, where they really got together in ways that they might not have had they both been killed simultaneously in a car crash or something. That it became-they used it well, to say things that they had forgotten to say, and to reminiscence about good times, and things like that. So interspersed in this bad time, there were nice times that he wanted to save and keep. So you just need to sort out the unpleasantness from the pleasantness that you value. Because you feel a sense of loss over what you valued, not over what you didn't. There are some other things, and that is that people have beliefs around grief and one of the beliefs is that it always happens in response to loss. 
CONNIRAE: So we would like you to bring to mind a few counterexamples from your own past. Almost all of us have experienced some time when we lost somebody like an ex-boyfriend or girlfriend or something like that, and we're totally relieved because someone better came along. 
STEVE: You might not have been relieved at the time but maybe a week later or a month later or a year later, you look back. Can you all think of something where you can look back and think, "Whew!"
CONNIRAE: "Boy I'm sure glad-"
STEVE: "Am I glad that happened!" 
CONNIRAE: It could have happened to me if he or she had stayed with me. 
STEVE: As long as something better comes along, you don't grieve over the loss. 
CONNIRAE: There is no loss. 
STEVE: Because you got something better. Now we also, we had a gal years ago who came to a training we were doing-well anyway, it turned out that she-the more she loved someone the shorter she grieved. 
CONNIRAE: So the more she loved someone-she had this presupposition that things would keep getting better. So the more she loved someone-even if they left her, it made her feel better because she knew that the next one would be even better than that.
STEVE: Does that make sense?
CONNIRAE: So if this was good-
STEVE: See, it always make sense if you understand the whole structure of it. As soon as someone came along, the next one was going to be better. Let's go on. Let's move on. Now there is another belief that grief takes time, that there are a certain set of stages that people go through and so on and that it takes inevitably a long time. 
CONNIRAE: Now certainly this statistically true for most people. Statistically it takes a long time and people statistically-most of them do go through these certain stages in a certain order. 
STEVE: But statistically of course, people take a long time to get over phobias. You know you can get over phobias really fast. 
CONNIRAE: There is a difference between what usually happens and what is possible, and that distinction has been forgotten in general in the area of dealing with grief. So there are all kinds of books out on the stages of grief that a person must go through, and they should, and they have to go through all those stages in order to properly grieve.
STEVE: In fact we know of people who have gone through the grief process that we are going to present naturally, and end up feeling guilty because they didn't go through these stages. 
CONNIRAE: Where it took a certain 
STEVE: Or wrong or bad, and other people around them often accused them of being unfeeling, and things like that. 
CONNIRAE: And we also want to mention that there is a difference between resolving grief rapidly, and someone who just doesn't attend to it, and doesn't want to deal with it. There is a difference there. The person who has resolved grief can talk about the person and congruently feel really good about the person that they lost. The person who hasn't, just doesn't want to discuss it at all-just, you know, not think about it. That's a different thing. That's not what we are calling resolving grief. 
STEVE: So for example, one of our students out in California dealt with a gal about a year ago who had grieved over the loss of a child soon after birth and she had been on meds for nine years, with double meds on the anniversary and he worked with her one session and cleaned it up and then the anniversary came and went with no problem. She threw her meds away and then he went back to her fairly recently and talked with her. She had a photograph of the child on the wall, she could talk about the child, and-
CONNIRAE: She brought out the photographs and showed them.
STEVE: Talked about how special it was just as if the child was alive.
CONNIRAE: Had some tears in her eyes of gratitude for having had that child.
STEVE: And had the experience, even though it was very short. So that's the target that we are headed for. So any questions? We'll just roll right into it?
CONNIRAE: I'd like to give one more example as a counterexample to having to take a long time and the more intense the loss the longer it should take, kind of thing. Last summer there was a woman in a training who just experienced about six weeks previous the loss of the three most important people to her in her life.
STEVE: On three successive days.
CONNIRAE: So on May 6th her mother was killed. On May 7th her boss was killed. On May 8th her fianc�e was eaten by lions. Right. Not the most typical kind of way of doing it. So she had lost these people and was complaining that she had a sense of loneliness in her life-not surprisingly, right? So in about-she was very quick, too. It didn't take very long. I wasn't teaching either, so I didn't have to explain anything to anyone. But I sat down with her, and in about ten minutes-I just asked her, "Which is the most significant of these losses for you?" So she said she thought her mother was. So we did the grief process with her mother only. Afterwards she said to me, she said, "Well I could just do this on these other two, too, couldn't I?" Yep, sounds like a good idea to me. So she was obviously prepared to do the rest on her own. She did that, and reported later that it made a major shift for her in having resolved those. (to Steve) So, anything else? You want to go on?
STEVE: Do you want to do it David? Sort of?
DAVID: Yes and no.
CONNIRAE: Yes and no.
STEVE: It will be worth it.
DAVID: I'm not sure what's going, you know, this is sort of-it's like I've got a good lid on it.
CONNIRAE: Yeah.
STEVE: And we will ask you to keep the lid on it until you have made the appropriate changes and shifts so that you won't need to. Come on up here. (Steve gives up his seat for David to use.)
CONNIRAE: And I do want you to encourage you to let me know if any ecology buzzers go off for you as we do this, so that we can be sure to do it in a careful and respectful way. Now I know from talking to David briefly earlier that there are several losses that you want to get resolved.
DAVID: Yeah, they seem to be connected. November 11, a year ago, we had a baby that was born and lived three minutes and died, and just prior to that the doctor sat me down and he said you are looking at a 99 percent chance of losing the baby and a 50 percent chance of losing the wife. I'm aware that when he did that I immediately clicked into just a "logic" mode and completely separated, and pretty well just stayed there but it kept stacking. And then Bob (a friend) a practitioner and master and so forth, he and I got together and when he went in and started working a little bit, he put everything back together and left it, because it seemed to be connected to multiple deaths. 
CONNIRAE: In the past?
DAVIDAVID: Yeah, that I had just sort of stacked them all.
CONNIRAE: OK. Can I know briefly which those are?
DAVID: It started out originally when I was twelve with my grandfather, which was the first time I ever came in contact with death. The day before he died we didn't know anything was wrong. He sat me down and he said, "One of these days I'm going to die, and you have to become the man of the family" and it was literally that statement. And so when he died, my response was to completely separate from feeling or anything and so that's how I dealt with death all those years.
CONNIRAE: OK. Yeah so he set up a program on how to deal with it. OK. Now when you think back on these things-
DAVID: All these things, yeah, OK.
CONNIRAE: Yeah. What's your sense as to which is the most significant, for you? Do you have a guess? . . .
DAVID: Boy. It's a pretty good teeter-totter, back and forth, between the first and the last one because the last one I was just absolutely terrified. I was fixing to lose the whole family-kit and caboodle, and that just scared me to pieces. 
CONNIRAE: OK. The family versus the grandfather. The last one is probably clear in your mind, yeah. Let's take that one.
DAVID: OK. (He takes a deep breath.)
CONNIRAE: OK, and now you actually did lose the child-baby? Right? And you've got your wife?
DAVID: But I notice now there are times-like if she doesn't come home at an appropriate time-I almost get a phobic response. 
CONNIRAE: Yeah. OK. So we might run her through this, too.
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: It's called pre-grieving, which is another step we'll get to more later. We can help people become much more easy in their relationships, no longer clinging-or you know, "Oh, we have to-it has to be," but just accepting, appreciating what it is without being desperate and holding on to it. OK. So let's do the baby. When you think about the baby now, and you know that you are missing something, I want you to just notice how you think of the baby, and I want to check too on what you are seeing there, because when you get this first image, this first representation, you want to have the representation be of what was-what's valued that was lost, not of something traumatic like we mentioned earlier.
DAVID: OK. (gesturing to his right) I've got a picture of the grave and then (gesturing in the same direction, but closer) a transparent form of about the way the baby would be now if it lived. 
CONNIRAE: Great, that sounds like just the right kind of thing. And it's kind of fascinating how different people represent loss very differently. So he's got a grave and a transparent picture. Clearly not the same as what a live person would be. Right? Other people will do it where they will see the person but a black dot will be superimposed over the person. There is always some way that the person represents "not there." The person is transparent, there is a dot over them, there is a curtain, there is something like that you want to find out. OK. So you can see the person transparent with a grave behind them. OK. Now come back here for a moment. Take a deep breath. In a moment this is going to be different, too. 
What I want you to think about now is a totally different kind of thing and that is something-someone that is no longer present for you, but when you think about them you experience them with gratefulness, with resourcefulness. It's like they are still a resource to you and you can take all the time you need to search for that. It may be something like a college friend, a high school friend. You've got someone. Whose is this?
DAVID: It's an old college professor.
CONNIRAE: An old college professor.
DAVID: He was a real good friend of mine. We did a lot of traveling together too. 
CONNIRAE: Great, great. And when you think about this person-male? Female?
DAVID: Male.
CONNIRAE: When you think about him now, do you have the sense of resourcefulness?
DAVID: Oh yeah, a lot of warmth.
CONNIRAE: Excellent. This is perfect. Exactly what we need. Exactly. Yeah. Right?
DAVID: Yes.
CONNIRAE: That feels better, right?
DAVID: Yeah, a lot better. I'll stay over here (gesturing straight ahead).
CONNIRAE: OK. Now how do you see him when you see him and you get this warmth? What do you see? Where do you see him?
DAVID: (gesturing with both hands straight ahead) He's just kind of right in front of me, just you know, and that's life size, in motion. Still a sense of transparency you know, because he's not really there. He's still alive. I could contact him tomorrow but- OK.
CONNIRAE: So this is, my guess is this is his way of coding that he probably won't see him. It's probably not going to be in his life anymore, so it's perfect. Transparency, life size. Now checking back and forth I want you to notice any other differences. It looks like this one is much larger. Is he superimposed over anything?
DAVID: No just kind of-I could put him-yeah. I could put him in any number of things. It's like it's almost as though he's standing in a context in which he is walking toward me in a situation that had happened, kind of thing. 
CONNIRAE: OK.
DAVID: When you said notice the differences, one of the things that distinctively came up as a difference that's kind of odd, is when you said, "Bring him up," I put him in a present frame. But on my timeline, I've got that grave in the future for me (gesturing to his right) and that's odd because normally all of those are going to be over here (gesturing to his left). 
CONNIRAE: That's right, but not for you.
DAVID: Right now. You know when you said difference, that just kind of hit.
CONNIRAE: So he's (the college professor) in the present right here. And he's bigger? The location is different; you mentioned that. Plus it's up higher, right? The grave one is up higher so this (college professor) is more like-
DAVID: It's like I see him standing on the floor and then up to his height.
CONNIRAE: Is that closer?
DAVID: Actually the grave is closer.
CONNIRAE: OK. Anything else about brightness? Even though they're both transparent, is one of them more solid?
DAVID: Well, not more solid, but this one (college professor)  is more normal lighting and this one (the grave) is kind of like almost like in a, looking down a tunnel, (both hands make a tunnel that he looks through) and that's the end of the tunnel kind of thing.
CONNIRAE: Oh, and how is this one (college professor) different? Is it panoramic more?
DAVID: Yeah, a little more natural. Yeah. It's sort of like he could walk all over the room kind of thing. He could just step literally.
CONNIRAE: How do you know there's that tunnel there? Do you actually see an edge to it? 
DAVID: No. It's just like as I look it's not necessarily that there's a tunnel, it's just as I look toward it, everything else is black around. You know it's just like I can look straight through to it but that's it.
CONNIRAE: Black all around. And around this, (gesturing toward the college professor) is there nothing around it? Anything could be?
DAVID: Yeah. I could put a frame around it and stop it, but it's like it's almost like like I said a legitimate situation where I was waiting, or he was coming toward me and we were talking. 
CONNIRAE: Yeah. OK. Good. Check sound. Is there any difference in the sound?
DAVID: There can be sound here (gesturing toward the college professor) if I want to listen to it, but there's not any sound over here (gesturing toward the grave).
CONNIRAE: OK. So the differences that we have so far are this one (grave) is over here on the future timeline, this one (professor) is right present, this one (grave) is higher up; this one (professor) is life size and this one (grave) is smaller. About the same distance?
DAVID: A little bit of difference.
CONNIRAE: This one (grave) is a little closer. This one (grave) has black around it. This one (professor) could have anything around it. Just regular lighting and so on. Which one is brighter? This one (professor) is brighter. Anything else? And this one (professor) has sound, and this one; this one could have sound and this one (grave) doesn't. 
DAVID: The only difference would be in focal quality when I look through to the grave it is a clear, almost too-vivid focus.
CONNIRAE: On the grave?
DAVID: On the grave. I mean it just stands out-vibrant.
CONNIRAE: Yeah. OK. All right. So now it's time for us to start exploring how to transform this experience into the same kind of resource this college professor is for David-as long as that's acceptable to you, and this is the point at which we want to an ecology check and go, "Do you have any objection to experiencing that child in the same kind of resourceful way for you?" Because the college professor, even though you could call him up, you probably won't. He's someone who probably is lost out of his life in "reality" but nonetheless David already knows how to carry that experience with him as a resource. It's something he can benefit from, and gain from now. So do you have any objection to transforming this into being more of a resource for you?
DAVID: Oh no. No.
CONNIRAE: OK. That's congruent. That's good. OK. What I would like you to do first then-the presence of this image behind, the grave-anything else we do if there is that grave there, I'm suspecting it's not going to have the kind of impact we want it to have.
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: So the first thing I want you to do is let that fall away.
DAVID: Let the grave fall away?
CONNIRAE: Yeah, and find out what shifts in your experience when you do that.
DAVID: OK. It's moving back, but not necessarily dropping. You know it's sort of like it went "Shhh" on out there.
CONNIRAE: Here's another suggestion that I have. What you might do-the appropriate place for it may be over in the past on your timeline because that's where it really was. Wherever your past is? . . . What do you think?
DAVID: I'm having real trouble separating them. It's like they go together. 
CONNIRAE: OK. What could be there instead of the-with the professor what do you have, what's the quality of the backdrop there?
DAVID: It was the normal setting. There were cars behind him in a parking lot, and a building. 
CONNIRAE: OK. Let's try something else. I'm going to try a location shift first. We'll find out if that's easier for you because one of the things, sometimes you need to find out what's the easiest sequence for the person to shift in. So let's try taking this (grave) and moving it location-wise. What happens when you do that in your experience? . . .
DAVID: (His voice becomes lower.) If I put it in the present, or bring it into this area, (straight ahead) the grave kind of hits a transparency, and everything lightens, but I'm starting to feel it (sadness).
CONNIRAE: OK. Now what if instead of having the grave, if you let the grave go, and you have something else be there. What you are seeing-it sounds like-is the child, your child as if he had continued living, and about that same age that he would be. What if you filled that out a little bit more and put a setting behind him as it would be if he were alive. Because if he were alive there wouldn't be the grave, it would be something else, you would see him in your house?
DAVID: OK. OK.
CONNIRAE: Have you got that? Does that make it better?
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: OK. Good. So now it's more like the professor scene where he's got a-this is a real context where you would be with this person even though the professor is not here; if you were with him it would be in some kind of realistic context like this. OK. Now that looks like that makes a good shift now. Now what I want you to do-has he already changed to life size?
 DAVID: Yeah. 
CONNIRAE: I thought so. So let's check for the tunnel, the black; is that gone?
DAVID: Yeah, it's gone. And the emotion.
CONNIRAE: Check for anything that the location shift did not carry? You've go the lighting. Could you put sound in now? OK. Is it slightly farther now in terms of distance? What is the distance? The same as with the professor?
DAVID: (nodding) Just about the same, yeah. 
CONNIRAE: OK. What I want you to do then is at this point compare what you've got now, to the way the professor is, and find out if there is any difference in your submodalities?
DAVID: What's odd is that I can blend the two pictures together, and have those two talking, you know, I mean- (both laugh)
CONNIRAE: Your resources are having a relationship with each other. (both laugh) Might be good. 
DAVID: You know I mean in a sense it feels better, but I'm feeling this time whereas up there it was like-but there's a realization of the loss. 
CONNIRAE: That's what-there's more that we are going to do with that in part two, to take care of that. Now what I want you to check though, is do you have the same sense, with the professor when you see him in this position, you have the sense of presence not of loss right? Now what we want to do is be sure that your child is coded in the same way-that you have that same sense of presence rather than loss. And then we are going to go on to do more things to make the "loss" even more of a resource for you.
DAVID: OK. 
CONNIRAE: So when you check the professor with your child, are there any differences now in terms of just exactly how big they are, how bright, what the context is around them?
DAVID: Both of them are natural context. The way that I did that, I probably need to tell you. I disassociated and let a part of me walk in there, to reach down, bend to touch the baby to do the things I would normally do with it. 
CONNIRAE: Now do you do that with the professor?
DAVID: Yeah. I can step into that picture and go talk. 
CONNIRAE: OK. Great. So it's parallel. Now when you step in with the professor do you have some sort of sense of loss also when you step in or not?
DAVID: Missing.
CONNIRAE: Of missing. 
DAVID: Yeah. It's not loss.
CONNIRAE: Like missing. OK. Is it the same with your child now? This sense of missing as opposed to loss?
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: OK. Good.
DAVID: Longingness. 
CONNIRAE: Got it. OK and that's the same as with the professor.
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: (to the group) OK. So my test here is do we have-have we used his reference experience as fully as we can to make-have we used his reference experience with his professor as much as we can to transform what was lost into a resourc? Because whatever his brain knows how to do with this professor, he can do also with this child. Now whenever his brain didn't naturally do with the professor though, we're not going to get by just mapping across. So we've got it to the point where he can look at the child, he can look at his child and get it it associated in and do the things that he would do and so on and experience that as a resource with some yearning. The next phase of the grief process is where we have taken some of the best natural strategies that people have for resolving grief on their own and we've made it into a format that anyone can then follow. So whatever pieces their own natural process, their natural reference experience didn't have, this next piece will pick up to make it more of a complete resource. This part, part of the focus of this part, part of the goal, the outcome, is to make it a resource in the future as well-not just in the present. When someone says yearning, that's about present to future. You know, 
'I want for something," and my guess is that the second phase will take care of that part. So let's find that out. 
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: So now when you think about the child and you see-him?
DAVID: Him.
CONNIRAE: Him. The way you do right here, with the sense of presence, and being more available in the same way that the professor is to you. What I want you to is create some kind of screen either up above or wherever it seems natural to you, to begin to let emerge a representation of the value that that child has, had, could have been, for you. You just have the sense that those values are there. It doesn't matter if they are detailed and so on, or if it's a more symbolic representation. You can allow more and more of those-often there are multiple values-to put them all on that screen for you, and just let me know when you are done because these are the things that you really want to preserve. . . .
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: OK. So it looks like he's gotten some real good ones up there. Now what I would like you to do is next to that representation-I want you to make a place for now beginning to emerge a representation of how these values could take form in a way more appropriate for you now, and in the future. So the same values will begin to be transformed, and again it might not be very specific how they start emerging, because you may not know exactly what's going to unfold. But we do this transformation, recognizing that people do shift in the direction that people's lives go, does change the way they want it to change. And whatever was valued about what's gone, now you want to take with you, but also allow yourself to transform it in a way that it will really fit with what you want to become, what your life circumstances can be, and you want them to be-that kind of thing. . . . So take a little while to allow that transformation to take place so that you get a sense of those values are shifting to be the same values in ways that they could, can, be satisfied in the future for you in the way appropriate in the way that fits with who you want to become, and what you want to do with your life. Let me know when you're done with that, or if you have any questions if you want to ask anything.
DAVID: OK. There seems to be an ongoing element of that too. 
CONNIRAE: Tell me more. What do you mean?
DAVID: It's like those things are coming off the screen and finding applications, but it's like there is a continuum. 
CONNIRAE: Continuum of what?
DAVID: Of finding new and more applications.
CONNIRAE: Good. So it's not like it's done; this is the process that is starting and it will continue.
DAVID: Right.
CONNIRAE: Excellent.
DAVID: Because it's, you know, it's kind of on this plane that starts here (gesturing near his face)and is slowly generally moving toward a future (gesturing farther ahead to his right) kind of like a belt system. (gesturing with both hands like a conveyor belt) OK.
CONNIRAE: Good. I like your unconscious mind. Yeah, and that's a process that can be useful to you at the unconscious level particularly to continue to transform and shift, and add, to the value that you can continue getting as you go to the future.
DAVID: That helped.
CONNIRAE: OK. Now is there anything more that you need to transform these to a point useful at this moment knowing you will transform them automatically further as you go on?
DAVID: OK. Yeah.
CONNIRAE: You got it?
DAVID: Yeah. (His head moves back and forth uncertainly.)
CONNIRAE: What's the your not sure part?
DAVID: Well, I'm still getting some kind of black cloud kind of thing that comes from over here (gesturing to his right) and I don't know what it is.
CONNIRAE: OK, let's check that out a little bit. So you're getting a black cloud. That sounds like a signal to me, so let's check it out. Welcome the black cloud, and find out what it wants to offer you, in information. Is there a suggestion? Is it any kind of objection or suggestion?
DAVID: The only thing that is coming up is unfinished business. 
CONNIRAE: OK. Let me check something out. See, it may be that this black cloud is just his unconscious's way of alerting him that he's not done yet. Now I know that already. We're not done with the process. On the other hand it may be that there is something else that we need to know about to finish, in addition to just the loss. If there is something else that we need to know about, then we want to know from that black cloud. If on the other hand that it's simply a signal that we are not through dealing with this loss yet, this is what's unfinished. 
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: Is it that?
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: OK. Good. Then we can continue on, and most likely the rest of the process will take care of that. If not, we'll find that out and we'll go back and pick it up-pick up whatever we need to. OK. Meanwhile you can invite whatever part of you is giving you that signal, if it has any specific suggestions, offerings, directions, or objections, to be sure to let you know.
DAVID: It's just sort of like it just sat down over there, (gesturing to his right) and it's going to wait and watch.
CONNIRAE: Great. Great. Make sure we like this. OK. So this is one of your protectors over there.
DAVID: Yeah. No, I got a bench of four of them that just filled in over there. I don't know who they are but they are sort of alike.
CONNIRAE: But they're going to be sure you're on track here? 
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: Good. Good. So you've got, you know what's of value to you in that relationship with your child. Right. You've already begun transforming it into ways that can be more appropriate for who you are, who you want to become, what your life will be, and what you will choose it to be in the future. Now what I would like to ask you is, "Would you like to have that-that sense of those values being available to you now and in the future?" Any objections? Are you checking?
DAVID: No. No objections.
CONNIRAE: So what I want you to do next is take those values, the representation of the values as you have transformed them. 
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: And keeping some of that with you in the present, allow that representation to just ripple throughout your future, to spread throughout your future timeline so that you know, without having to think about it, that it's there for you, that it's waiting for you in the future as well as in the present, not knowing exactly what form it's going to take. This is the reason for encouraging someone to make slightly symbolic or sketchy representations of what's valued, because we don't know what's going to happen; he doesn't know what's going to happen. He's going to put those values in a way that he knows that he's going to move towards those. And he's going to find ways of matching them in the future, and fulfilling them for him. And he'll be more successful at finding ways that really will match, because of that experience that he had with his child. That's a way that an experience in the world alerted him to something valuable, and that he can go search out more of it in the future. Because if you never have anything valuable to lose, then in a way you don't know what to go for in your future-more of. OK, that looks good. Another way that some people like to do this is to take the values as if it were a deck of cards, the same card over and over and over, a full deck. Multiply a whole deck of cards and keep one card and kind of spread the others throughout your future. That's another way that you can accomplish that. Now my sense is that-I would like you to just check it, too, that you have made these future representations in a way that they match the way you think about your future. The same location, the same size, same brightness, all that same kind of stuff so it really is there, a part of your future.
DAVID: They went down one side of the timeline, and sort of like a storage element to one side and then parts of that black cloud went down the other side, and just kind of strung out along with it. 
CONNIRAE: So how is that? What's your sense of-
DAVID: It's sort of like the black cloud is the unknown. It's like there are going to be more hurts and so forth, and I'm not going to be without it. And it's like that's an emotional element where before I just shoved that away, and not let the feeling come.
CONNIRAE: So this is a way your knowing that it's realistic to have certain hurts?
DAVID: It's almost like a guarantee you're going to go through the feeling and get it over with at the time. 
CONNIRAE: OK. So you have the silver lining already on the black cloud.
DAVID: Yeah. (both laugh) Choink! A funny new color just came up on that timeline. (both laugh)
CONNIRAE: Just checking. Because it's one thing to put in your future a black cloud the way he used to deal with grief, you know. What realistic to place now--what he can do now in the future, is to put in the future the way he now knows to deal with grief. That each loss is a way of alerting yourself to what you want more of. If it's worth losing, then it's worth having something you know you want more of. So it's a way you can keep redirecting yourself. OK. Good.
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: Now, let's do a little bit of testing. I would like to have you think of your child. 
DAVID: OK.
CONNIRAE: What's his name?
DAVID: Nathan.
CONNIRAE: Nathan. Think of Nathan. 
DAVID: And what's ironic, is I figured out what these four (black clouds on the bench) over here were. There basically sort of like keepers of some of those deaths I had never dealt with, and all of those are kind of together now. (gesturing in front of him) All of those lost people are kind of together.
CONNIRAE: All kind of together.
DAVID: Yeah.
CONNIRAE: He's got the location, right where we want it. OK, so your unconscious went through those other ones real quickly. Congratulations. That was quick. Good.
DAVID: It was sort of a "have to" though.
CONNIRAE: A "have to," you had to do that? Yeah. I agree. If you want to enough, you have to do it. OK. So think about those, those other losses now. Do you have a sense of the same resourcefulness? OK. If your unconscious wishes to, you can take more time later today, or in your sleep tonight, to fully get the value from those experiences as well-where you take the time to identify-consciously or unconsciously-what was valued in each of those relationships, and make sure that it ripples throughout your future as well. And each time you do that, my guess is that you will know more completely that every future loss will be this kind of gain, so that that's what you can place into your timeline as loss. You know that this will happen again in the future where you will gain from some loss, and that it's realistic to go through that and experience that. Not to shove those feelings of gaining from losses aside. . . . OK. Thank you.
Follow-up (short term)
CONNIRAE: OK David. It's been about two days since we did the grief procedure. Since you live as far away as Texas, I thought I would find out right now the differences you've already noticed.
DAVID: One of the differences is I didn't notice as much as some of the guys I was with (did). There were several of us that had eaten out the night before at a restaurant here in town and the people behind us had a small baby and an older child and I was interacting with the older child. I was aware of the baby but not really comfortable with any kind of interaction with the baby, and the baby would have been about the same age as ours, had Nathan lived. The only interaction I did was one time the baby was about to step out in the aisle way and get run over. I put my hand out there but that was about all. One of the fellas with us was aware of that, and then the just the lunch period after we did the grief process, I was still processing, and I went off by myself and was eating lunch and I was sitting there, and the next table over there was a family with a little baby. I'm sitting there and I'm looking up, and in a minute it dawned on me that I'm playing with this child. We're playing the look away game and stuff like that, and it would be something that typically I would have avoided that much interaction. And it dawned on me that I was having a pretty good amount of interaction with this child. I thought "Wow!" and I got all excited and there was nobody else around that would have understood you know. People looked a little funny but that much change was real noticeable, so to me that was much more comfortable piece.
CONNIRAE: Great. Great. You may not have had an opportunity to test very many other response differences. Have you noticed anything else yet?
DAVID: Well, like you say, not a whole lot of other opportunities as far as in the real world. I have noticed that since we did the piece I have gone back and reprocessed twelve deaths that I had just cataloged, and in the midst of it, had gone through, and when they would come into the present state, I would associate in, and actually in the processing go in and have a conversation elements as well putting to rest some things. 
CONNIRAE: Great. So they seem much more like a resource to you?
DAVID: A lot more like a resource. You know it was like everything traveled across into the place where they needed to be. 
CONNIRAE: Great. Sounds good. Thank you very much.
DAVID: You're welcome. Thank you.
Follow-up (longer term)
CONNIRAE: It's now a month and a half after the session. David tells me that he continues to feel comfortable with, and deal well with, young children. On occasion, he'll even take a child from someone else in order to hold or play with the child. David sense is that the process has had an across the board impact. In general, he feels like a pressure has been alleviated and his wife has noticed that he seems more calm and settled. It's easier for David to loosen up completely and have fun rather than be as serious. 
The grief process can also be used ahead of time to do what we call pre-grieving. This means preparing yourself in advance for a possible loss. This can be particularly useful for friends or relatives of someone with a terminal illness. The pre-grieving process can also be helpful for anyone in an ongoing relationship. Several therapists we have trained do this routinely with their clients to improve the quality of their relationships. Doing this helps sensitize you to the value of your relationship and deepen your commitment, while it makes you less dependent on the other person. People who have done pre-grieving tell us it helps them to fully appreciate the important people in their life without clinging to them. Like any process, the grief process needs to be adapted to the particular person you are working with. 
(The DVD of this session is available from NLP Comprehensive, <a href="http://www.nlpco.com/">http://www.nlpco.com/</a>. 
If you are interested in using this method effectively, the DVD will give you the essential nonverbal components that engage unconscious response.  Other NLP demonstrations by Connirae Andreas, and Steve Andreas are also available from the link above. For a range of other NLP books, DVD and CD demonstrations, go to <a href="http://www.realpeoplepress.com/">http://www.realpeoplepress.com/</a>)
END TRANSCRIPT
