CLIENT: So I had a kind of rough weekend. Friday I was just feeling just really sad and overwhelmed. (inaudible) like, "Okay, should I leave? Should I stay at work?" It's like, if I leave early, what am I really gaining? I can just stay at work and whatever. So I ended up staying at work and it was just kind of like meh. (ph) I got home and was like—I don't know, sort of like wasn't feeling great. [00:00:58]
Then I decided to make plans with a friend for Saturday to help paint in a new apartment she's getting, which was exhausting but also—I figured at least it would get me tired out (inaudible) –(inaudible) and painted and it was really great. The side problem was—Actually on Sunday I was like, "I feel pretty good. Okay." The sort of side problem going on is that Ashby is having a complete meltdown about turning 30 in a week, and through a series of events has been having that meltdown at me and her friends. [00:01:53]
Her mom had e-mailed me asking what Ashby's address was because she wanted to have cupcakes sent to her workplace. And she (inaudible) give a suggestion on what flavor. So I was like, "Okay, here we go." Then I thought about it, and I'm like, "I think that might make Ashby crazy." Because Ashby is obsessed with her coworkers. She wants her coworkers to remember her birthday because they want to not because they have to. She won't put her birthday on the birthday list because it's her manager's job to do that, and this whole thing. 
So I just directly asked her. I was like, "If (inaudible at 00:02:43) delivered (ph) to your work that was birthday related, how would you feel?" And she flipped out. Like was really angry at her mom, and was saying how like, "It's so embarrassing. [I feel like a child]," (ph) just kind of like on about how that was the worst thing ever. I'm like, "Okay." I was like, "I'll tell her not to deliver them. Okay!"
Then she had this sort of extended rant about how she was turning 30 and it was really stressing her out. I'm just like, "Okay." And she wishes everyone would just forget her birthday so she wouldn't have to worry about it, and that she would try to come up with something to do, but couldn't come up with anything that was awesome enough to make people want to do it. Like her best friend had said, "Ashby, I've cleared up the whole day for you, your birthday." Then Ashby got really angry about that, because she (inaudible) all these things she wants to do and not have to come up with something good enough to make up for her (inaudible). [00:04:00]
So that was—And then also she wants a surprise party, but no one had ever given her a surprise party, and everyone who knows her should understand that's what she wants. And sort of this whole thing. I'm like, "Okay." So I had an idea. I was like, "Well, it's kind of last minute. Maybe I could organize a surprise-ish brunch." I'm like, "I'm not up to party organizing. You can't get people to come out on a week's notice on a Saturday night or Sunday night. Hmm." So my idea was to tell her that it was going to be brunch with four people] (ph) and then invite like ten more people as a surprise. [00:04:48]
So I was kind of planning that out. And her [big brother] (ph) was like, "I don't know if it's going to work because Ashby flipped out at me." I'm like, "Well, she was saying Friday really clearly that she wanted some kind of surprise, so this is what I could do. We could do lunch, but you know, whatever." So then I asked Ashby on Sunday if she wanted—I said, "I'm organizing something for you. Do you want to do it Saturday or Sunday?" Then she started, "Well, why would you do that? I don't understand." "I'm just—just Saturday or Sunday." She said [other things] (ph) about it, and then—She was lying on the sofa and she literally pulled the blanket over her head for a while, and then literally stomped into her bedroom and slammed the door, and just stomped back and forth for the next couple hours. Which was really—it really pissed me off a lot. I felt like she was acting like a child, because she was. [00:05:59]
I decided—I was just like, "This is ridiculous." So I decided—I'm like, "Well, (inaudible) at the end of the day on Monday, and if she's still really pissy about it, then I will tell her that I'm not organizing anything, and you know, (inaudible). So Monday she seemed kind of cranky. I said, "Whatever." I was reading a book in my bedroom. Then I hear like a crash and she's crying. She was cooking, so at first I thought she hurt herself. I just kind of—I went in and she was on the floor sobbing, and then started apologizing because she'd spilled something [into part of my shoes]. (ph) I'm like, "I don't care. What's going on?" [00:06:54]
So finally she sort of yelled and cried—(inaudible) that she was very, very angry that I had tried to organize a birthday brunch for her, and that I was forcing her to do something she didn't want to do, and that I should have understood that she didn't want to have a brunch on her birthday because that's boring, and if she just has brunch on her birthday that means that she's a boring person who will die alone and unloved. So I was forcing her to realize that, and she wanted to make that decision on her own time. I was just like, "Okay." I said, "Okay, well you know, I could undo it. I can just tell the people we're not doing plans." Then she's like, "No, you can't do that. It's already happened. It's already ruined." I'm like, "Well, if it's already ruined, I'm still going to cancel." [00:08:00]
So she's going on, and she's mad that I asked—one of the people I asked to do something—[She was mad that I didn't] (ph) understand that he wasn't her friend, and it was horrible that I'd asked him, and just—it was just sort of this like endless—She wants to do something for her birthday but she [hasn't really] (ph) come up with anything, and that's because she lacks something as a person. And (inaudible)—this whole thing, and I'm like, "Well, maybe you could have asked someone for help coming up with what to do. Or you could have asked one of your friends, like 'Can you help me plan something?' or whatever." And she still was like, "No." [00:08:54]
Then she was like, "You know, the person who was just fed up with me couldn't even come up with something better than brunch," which just made me so angry, because I was like, "I'm having a hard time getting through the day, so no, I couldn't come up with something better than brunch. I'm sorry, but I'm not sorry." Like, I wasn't up to it. Also on a week's notice, there's like limited—So then she started castigating (ph) herself for being an asshole and [just went on]. (ph) This is so—Uh! It was just really awful. Like I feel she really wanted me to participate in—like agree that she is boring and horrible and unloved, and agree that she (inaudible) and on and on. [00:09:58]
It was so frustrating because I didn't really know what to do or say, because she's sitting on the floor crying. I tried to sort of give her a hug, and she yanked away. So I was like, "Okay, that's fine." And half of what she's ranting about is how she doesn't have any friends, and no one loves her or wants to do anything for her, even though I tried to do something, and her best friend tried to do something, and in both cases she ripped our heads off. I don't know. (inaudible) I still feel sort of it's harsh. I kind of tried to just listen to her. Finally I was like, "Okay. Well, I'm not trying to control you, I'm not trying to control your behavior, and I don't want you to use me as an excuse." [00:10:56]
Because now she's like, "Well I have to do brunch because you told people and it's all ruined." I told her she can't do that. She can't make me responsible for that. I was going to e-mail the people and say, ["I don't think it's what Ashby wanted."] (ph) Because it's all of three people. Fortunately, I'd only reached out to one person as a potential surprise, so I just need to e-mail him and be like, "Never mind." And I was like, "You've got to make a decision (inaudible)." Then she started (inaudible) like, "It's too late. I just have to have brunch." I'm like, "Nope, you can—anything you want up until Sunday morning. And even on Sunday you can probably make a decision." Then I went into my bedroom and shut the door. [00:11:50]
It really sucked. I wrote a long e-mail to two of her friends just being like, "This really sucked." Her best friend was like, "Yeah, I thought that might happen." I was like, "Well, you know"—(inaudible)—because she'd said so many times that she really wanted someone to organize something for her, [someone to invite the] (ph) people, and a surprise. I was like, "Oh, I'm providing these items." (inaudible) when she was sobbing on the floor, but like she was clearly very involved in whatever was going on. [00:12:32]
So it kind of [felt like] (ph) it pretty much killed the day for me. Like I was really exhausted from her having the temper-tantrum the night before, and then during the day. It's just like I—(inaudible) to want to call someone, but I was just too tired to even do that. So I napped, and I read a book for a bit. She kept on cold-shouldering me till about seven or eight at night. Then what she does is she'll just cold-shoulder, cold-shoulder, then pretend (ph) nothing happened and will probably never bring it up again. Except for she might decide just to have another angry fit. 
She also yelled at me when I told her that I convinced her mother to not send her cupcakes to work, but instead to place the order with (inaudible at 00:13:37) to be picked up. And she was mad about that. She was mad at her mother for reasons I don't understand. She was also mad at her mother making the order for 24 cupcakes, because she doesn't have enough people who like her, and why was her mother delusional, crazy, and thinking that she had friends. And then she also was mad that her mother asked me for an opinion on her birthday present and I suggested what Ashby had asked for, which was money to travel. [So she was mad about that too.] (ph) [00:14:15] 
[That was a part of when I was just like "close the door"]. (ph) Because when she's like lying on the floor wailing about why did her mother place an order for cupcakes, I'm like, "I don't know. Maybe she likes you. Goodbye." And also like—I get that people are crazy about their birthday sometimes. It's just a lot, you know. Because the whole string of it was—it began with, "I desperately want to do something for my birthday and have people celebrate it, but I actually want everyone to ignore my birthday so that I don't have to deal with the crushing disappointment of no one liking me, and I'm mad that people didn't forget and that you reminded people." [00:15:12]
It's just like—it makes no sense and it's crazy and like—It's really frustrating to try to do something, and then have her yell at me about it. (inaudible) "I specifically told you not to do it that way." I was like, "Well"—The other thing is that I had decided to let her know I was doing something because I figured she would be losing her mind. Like if I planned something Sunday afternoon she just—So then she was mad that I had told her, because I should have just made it a surprise. I explained my reasoning, and she's like, "No, it's just ruined," etcetera. [00:16:05]
I don't know. It's just like it's—[I think this is the] (ph) aspect of living with Ashby that is possibly the worst, is—It's also that whenever she has this like [flameout] (ph) it usually begins with "I was trying to just not tell anyone and pretend to be cool for your sake, but now it's ruined and now I have to scream at you." I'm always like, "I really would rather you had just said something two months ago. Like anything." [00:16:58]
Also it's hard to—I feel like she often has these meltdowns in ways where it's difficult for me to disengage except to walk to my bedroom and shut the door, which—I don't know—I feel it's a little hostile. Or not hostile, I guess. Just kind of—I feel like it's being firm a little bit more than I would like to. I just feel just saying, "Okay, I'm not doing this," and door shut. But I'm not sure that there's a better way to deal with it. (pause) [00:18:05]
The other thing is that she often will get really dramatic when I tell her, "I'm feeling more depressed," or whatever. "Oh great, this is so terrible. You're going to be depressed and crazy all winter." Every time I feel really bad, but then I think, "I don't do any of that." Like the most I do is I'll sleep all day. Sometimes I'm like, "I really want to watch bad TV, and you want to watch sports. Can we split it?" I can't read a book when the TV is on. I have to leave the room. That always freaks Ashby—like she gets very anxious when I do that, because she feels bad that—she feels like she's forcing me out of the living room and forcing me to [do something I don't] (ph) want to do, and this whole thing. [00:19:08]
THERAPIST: And then she gets anxious and guilty.
CLIENT: Yeah. Then it's like—I can't read a book and watch—I can't do it. And it rarely bothers me. She got obsessed with watching—marathoning "Breaking Bad," which did bother me, because that show is just really disturbing and upsetting. I was like, "I don't want to be in the room when it's on, even if I can ignore it." So we've been having a back and forth over who gets to watch what for three hours in a row, or whatever. (pause) I also feel bad—like now I'm kind of thinking, "Okay, what can I plan to do on Sunday that will get me out of the house and away from another temper-tantrum?" [00:20:06]
THERAPIST: Sunday is her actual birthday?
CLIENT: Sunday is her actual birthday, so I'm anticipating like meltdown from start to—
THERAPIST: (inaudible) melting down.
CLIENT: Yeah. One of her friends (inaudible)—One of her friends said, "Are you sure she can come? Maybe she doesn't want to." I was like, "Well, you know, I'm giving her the option. I'm going to sort of let her know enough." [I did hear her point] (ph). I asked her like several times, "Do you want to not celebrate your birthday?" And then she started, "No, no, no, no. That's horrible." Okay. [00:21:00]
I don't know. Like her BFF had sort of—It's kind of weird, because it has happened I think two times that I've tried—I try to organize something for Ashby and Ashby has wigged out about it. And her BFF Krissy (sp?) is pretty good at predicting that, and I'm always like, "Hmm." Well they used to live together for quite awhile, and she's known Ashby longer than I have. It's just this very kind of awkward moment of her being like, "I think this might go really poorly," and I'm like, "Well, I think it might, but I'm just not quite"—(inaudible) It did. And I feel bad e-mailing her to be like, "Our mutual friend Ashby is being (inaudible). Do you have any suggestions?" Or "(inaudible) can I just vent that she's being (inaudible)?" [00:22:03]
I don't know. (pause) I mean, for all her whinging about not wanting to keep me out of the place, I'm not going to want to be in my apartment all weekend I don't think. I also know she'll lose her mind if I'm not there, because obviously I'm avoiding her and then she's a horrible person. But I'm feeling more pro- leaving the house. [00:22:34] (long pause) [00:23:30]
THERAPIST: [One thing we were] (ph) talking about last week was this sort of like show don't tell thing [that you did], (ph) and you were saying that maybe one thing that contributes to that is a worry that your—how you feel will be kind of discounted (inaudible at 00:23:54). One thing that struck me as you were talking was that—one thing we were wondering about related to that is why it happens in here. Not that it doesn't happen other places, but we wondered (inaudible). And one thing you seem to be saying is that it's not hard to call up Jen, like "Oh my gosh, Ashby is acting (inaudible) crazy, and I just had to kind of vent." [So it made me wonder what would be easier about that]. (ph) I don't know if it's that Jen knows her too, or you know Jen can feel the same way at times? [00:24:57]
CLIENT: I've actually—[kind of whenever I've talked] (ph) to you about this, I've ended up explaining a lot of it, because to me the whole situation feels like—I just feel like, "Is this really happening?" The way I sort of feel in the end is I try to organize—"I try to do something nice for you that you said you wanted, and you're furious at me." That just doesn't make any sense. Like [it's sort of a combination of] (ph)—I'm like, "I don't quite know what just happened." Like I sort of do, but I didn't think that—like normally when I offer to do something for someone, like "Let's have brunch," they don't get angry at me. So to me that's an important—I don't know important, but sort of like—part of it is I just don't understand what happened here. [00:26:10]
And I described a lot of it, or some of it, to Krissy and (inaudible) as well. It is easier to (inaudible) because they are used to living with her, so they're already used to the thing where she—where everything—where she tries to turn everything that someone else does into proof that she's a horrible person and will die alone, and then tries to drag you into an argument where you have to agree with her. (pause) [00:26:56]
THERAPIST: So some of the way you're (pause) relating events—I'm not trying to say it's bad or trying to talk you out of it. It just seems like, again, that it sort of relates to some anxiety (inaudible). [It's to do with] (ph) a kind of incredulity about how she's behaving.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:28:04]
THERAPIST: So then when you talk about it—like some of what you're trying to do is actually establish for yourself, "Oh my God, this is actually what happened." I mean, not like you really doubt your memory, but you're (ph) kind of laying it out. It's like, "She really was acting (inaudible) crazy." Like, "When I hear myself say it and I put it all together, oh my God."
CLIENT: Yeah, like I was—when she pulled a blanket over her head, I just stared at her (inaudible). I'm like, "My roommate is throwing a temper-tantrum," by which I mean she literally yanked a blanket over her head and literally stomped. Because like usually (inaudible at 00:28:53) temper-tantrum and they're not actually doing that. I'm like, "No, no, no. In this case, this is actually happening." Yeah, so there's part of that, and part of it is also every time I sort of say what happened, I'm just like—it kind of affirms like, "That was really crazy, and it really didn't make sense." (pause)
THERAPIST: So in that sense, I guess I've become a kind of, in part, a reality sounding board? [00:30:09]
CLIENT: Kind of. I mean, sometimes I like to—like I'll do this at work when I'm alone, like just say it out loud, what I'm thinking of, to kind of get it together and see if it—I don't know—to see if it makes sense. So yeah, there's that sort of like—I'm talking out loud to myself, but not. (pause) [00:31:05]
THERAPIST: So the sort of reality (inaudible) doesn't necessarily require another person.
CLIENT: No, it totally does. Like I think it does. Like it's—I guess I—to me it's related to talking out loud to myself. It's like to myself it can be useful, mostly if we're talking about something like sorting out in my head something that like—I don't know—for some things, but often I want to talk to someone else, like as a sounding board, and as a "This was really crazy, right? Like I'm pretty sure it was really crazy, but I want you—[it would be nice if you'd] (ph) confirm it was really crazy." Or maybe this other person will be like, "Wow, and also there's this other aspect you didn't notice that was crazy in this other way." [00:32:02]
THERAPIST: Here's a slightly different formulation of it. Maybe it's easier for—maybe it's more like—it's easier to bear how crazy or disturbing something was when you're talking to somebody else about it. So maybe it's less that you in some sort of [genuine sense] (ph) don't trust your version of reality, and more that you don't want to think when you're alone so much about your version of reality, because with these sorts of situations it's very upsetting and disturbing. And that's kind of easier to—You feel safer with that, talking to somebody else. [00:33:32]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it does. I mean, the situation with Ashby felt so stifling, and like—I don't know. Because she even talked about her mother being smothering, and all I could think of was like, "Right now you're being smothering in a different way." And I feel like—I guess talking about it with someone else also—I mean, it makes it easier to kind of accept that that happened, and be like, "Okay, this happened, and I have to deal with that happening." [00:34:31]
THERAPIST: You can actually kind of talk about what it was really like for you (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I think it's also—I know [it's our] (ph) tendency to sort of provide excuses for someone's behavior, like, "Well to be fair," this, that, and the other thing.
THERAPIST: Right. "Oh, she's turning 30."
CLIENT: Yeah. Which, to be fair, it's fine. And the other thing she was sort of coming back to but wasn't explicitly saying was if she was dating someone none of this would be a problem, because her partner would just know what she wanted and do it and organize a party and blah, blah, blah. (pause) Sorry (inaudible). [00:35:52]
I mean, when she started [going on about that], (ph) all I can think is that doesn't work like that. Just because you're dating someone doesn't mean that they are a mind-reader, that—like you still have to talk to someone and tell them what you want. I don't know. I've organized, I think, every birthday of my own. Which is fine. I never really wanted a surprise party. And the last couple years I've done nothing organized and I really like it. 
So these sort of, "My life would be perfect if only I was dating someone" part, I'm always like, "No." Like, "I don't know where you're getting that from." Especially since I'm like, "You've seen enough bad relationships to know that it doesn't work that way." (pause) But yeah, trying to—like sharing it with—sharing what happened—I don't know. I guess it makes me feel a little less like it's my fault, that I should have done something.
THERAPIST: We'll (ph) stop for now. [00:37:39]
END TRANSCRIPT
