TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Session number 7, Client number 0735-103, 1970.


PATIENT: When you have only one session a week there's so much that goes through your mind that you can't seem to remember it all. Stuff I was thinking about this morning, this job I have used to be, seemed like it had more responsibilities to it than it does now. Today it seemed like I was just doing tasks, time consuming. And I've been talking to a place out on the north side about a job where I'd be a management type of person - have three or four people working under me and all this. I just got to thinking now, I wonder if there's going to be a drastic change if I should take that job in the [inaudible at 01:52] noticeable to the extent that to note an attitude or personality change or something.


COUNSELOR: Like maybe having a really responsible job will change your whole outlook on life in a way that will be just really apparent.


PATIENT: Yes. Whereas now I think I'm just sort of an errand boy or something like that most of the time. There I'd have a responsible position where I'd have decisions to make among other things. Then of course it would be at a better pay which will change my attitude entirely too. But that's just thinking. 


COUNSELOR: I guess one thing you're implying is maybe being treated like an errand boy and having a job that isn't responsible hasn't has had a pervasive effect on you. [03:08]


PATIENT: Yes, I think that at my age, with my background, I should have more responsibility and therefore more pay and so on and so forth, but I look at it from the standpoint of I'm just not where I should be, to the extent that if my boss came to me and offered me more money, I wouldn't even accept it because of the fact that there's nothing more. If you just change the pay you're not changing enough. You've got to change the responsibilities, the attitude of... well, you can't change the attitude of the people around you, and that's part of the problem. So just the money itself wouldn't change the situation it would just help me tolerate it. 


COUNSELOR: The money isn't as important to you as being considered a responsible person or something along those lines.


PATIENT: Yes. I'd like to be making more money but I'd also like to be in a position where I'd have more responsibility, or more authority, or more whatever it is. That would help me psychologically.


COUNSELOR: You like to have people looking up to you instead of having people looking down on you.


PATIENT: Well, yes, I don't really completely feel that people around me look down on me to a great degree, it's just that they're just like me it seems like, sort of like a rat on a treadmill. We're not making any progress; we're all kind of keeping the same level. Once in a while it seems like maybe a guy that gets promoted up the ranks a little bit, but for the most part everybody just kind of stays static. There doesn't seem to be any progress any place in this company so maybe that's another thing that's discouraging.


COUNSELOR: So it's more like wanting to feel like you're making some progress, like you're getting somewhere. [05:42]


PATIENT: Yes. The boss came in this morning. We have a piece of equipment that we shipped in to a Massachusetts lab. They broke it and sent the part back to us that they broke. Well, some time ago we sent another piece of equipment similar to this one that they could do the same job on, and they told us that they would take this piece of equipment that they broke and they would repair it. Well, all of a sudden we get it here and so if I was in the position where my boss is I would have done things differently from what he decided to do. I took this piece of equipment and put it on his desk Friday. He wasn't in, and he came in this morning and told me to take it down to the shop and have it repaired. I was on the phone at the time, so later when I caught him I asked him, why should we have this repaired when it was their piece of equipment? They ought to really repair it themselves and all this. He just points to the fact that I don't agree with the decisions that he makes concerning the job and it affects me. The decisions he makes affect me because the way I see it repairing this equipment and sending it back to the lab's going to take money out of our pockets. Then next year when it comes time for raises and what we can afford because we had made a budget last year. And I'll say, now look, here's a place where you could have saved money and there's a place where you could have saved money. And I'd want to anyhow. Whether I'd be able to say, well here's a place that you spent money that wasn't necessary, and another place where you spent money and it wasn't necessary, now you're going to punch me for your bad management. So that's the reason I'm very disgusted and want to get out of this situation.


COUNSELOR: Yes, he's mismanaging things and it comes down to affecting you.


PATIENT: The way I look at it it's taking money right out of my pocket the way he poorly manages things and there's nothing that I can really do about it. So after seriously looking for about three months I'm beginning to get discouraged on this new job thing. Every once and a while one will come up where it looks promising and it seems like for a while there they'd be interested, then they kind of lose interest or don't call you any more. So what are you going to do? Call them and say, hey why didn't you hire me? You just have to turn around and go someplace else. 


COUNSELOR: I guess it makes you feel down. Not as much for going out and trying to get a job when their interest in you trails off. 


PATIENT: I sure wonder what they found out about you that they shouldn't have. 


COUNSELOR: What did they find out that sets you to wondering? [09:00]


PATIENT: Like this place uptown I called the other day; they had an ad in the paper, a job that I just minutely qualified for not to any great extent. But I called them up and they said well, do you have a transcript? We'd like you to send us a transcript. I said no, I have one but I'm not going to let them have it. Would you mind writing to the college and getting a transcript sent to us? And I said okay, and they sent me an application, and I had to fill it out and sent it back and they'd consider the application along with the transcript and all this. I was talking to my wife about it this morning on the phone and she said, well why don't you write in and send a transcript? And I said, because I don't really... two things: I'm not proud of my grades and another thing I don't think my grades... I've been out of school too long for those grades to tell anything. So I'm just not going to bother with it. I may send them back their application but as far as the transcript goes, forget it. 


COUNSELOR: The grades wouldn't be that much help to you.


PATIENT: It would be more of a hindrance than it would be a help. And I'm smart enough to know that. I'm lazy enough to make those type of grades but also smart enough to know that I don't have any money in the bank there. The sad thing about me is that I know too much about myself. 


COUNSELOR: How do you mean that? You mean that you know too much about your liabilities?


PATIENT: My assets and my abilities, I know just what they are. I don't know, I know what I could do. I know what my background is. Just like I say, I know too much about myself.


COUNSELOR: I guess you feel sad when you see yourself not living up to your knowledge of what your potential is.


PATIENT: Yes. I know what my capabilities are to a certain extent. A great deal of the time I think that the only reason I got a college degree is because I knew there were some people thinking I couldn't do it. And so I just went on to do it, to show them. In the process I've taken psychological testing course and things like that. I've given myself a test in an objective way and didn't slant it. I know what my IQ is, what my test scores on certain tests would be. I also know how to slant the test so that they can go in my favor or what have you. I think I know too much about myself. [12:08]


COUNSELOR: In the sense that, maybe if you didn't know so much about yourself you could sort of be more contented with the job you have, like, oh it's a really good job. You know you've got a pretty good IQ and it's set you to thinking, no this, isn't enough, this, isn't in my capabilities.


PATIENT: No. Not only that but if you've done more you feel that you should be making more. Maybe then that wouldn't be the case where you are. Sometimes I think that's the problem with me and my wife. I gave her and IQ test one time. And I'm the kind that, well, I prefer people that are a little along the intellectual line you might say. Her score came out low and I kind have held it against her ever since. It doesn't make for the best relationship.


COUNSELOR: I know it's not like you've thought about it constantly or something, it's not that kind of a thing, but it seems like it's been in your mind.


PATIENT: Every time she does something that shows a lack of intelligence you say well, what can you expect? Look what she made on that test. Even going further back then that, you can just observe her mother for a while and realize that her mother's IQ isn't up to what my wife's IQ is and say well I guess she didn't have much to start with. She had a whole background there too.


COUNSELOR: How does that make for problems between the two of you then?


PATIENT: How does what now?


COUNSELOR: Your finding out that she didn't do well on the IQ test?


PATIENT: Well, It's like what you don't know won't hurt you type of thing. And I think up until the time I gave her that test I figured, well she must be about as smart as I am. Then after that, like you say, every time she makes some kind of mistake you say well that must be due the fact that she's got a lower IQ and all this. 


COUNSELOR: Is it kind of like you don't have a good opinion of her as you would have had?


PATIENT: Yes, I think so. It slants your opinion in the wrong direction. Something that's trite but it affects me more than maybe it affects someone else. Like I say, I prefer to be around people who are intellectual to a certain extent. Not people who think in mathematical formulas all the time, but the people who say, well I read such and such in Moliere and really liked this part of that play or that story or whatever. Where she hasn't had any college. [15:11]


COUNSELOR: It's like it articulates one of the ways you were unhappy with her, wish she were different and better.


PATIENT: I keep thinking back to say maybe well maybe you shouldn't have gone that route and then you could have had a wife who at least had a couple of years of college and that you feel was more compatible intellectually than she is. 

I'm trying to cut down on my smoking so much. I didn't mean to be snide or anything but I just happened to look there and saw that pack last time.


COUNSELOR: I didn't think it was snide.


PATIENT: I didn't want it to seem like I was trying to be cheap. Especially today, like I say, I'm trying to cut down, quit, something.


COUNSELOR: I thought it was funny because earlier in the day I noticed that pack sitting up there and I said, oh yes I saved that, that's right. And then I forgot it again.


PATIENT: Well at first I thought well, didn't think anything about it. I gave you the cigarettes and there was a pack right up there and I said, well she smokes. I wonder if that's hers? I haven't really figured out whether this, is your office entirely or whether someone else shares the office or something. Motorcycle helmet over there - do you have a motorcycle? So I didn't know whether that was your pack of cigarettes or not.


COUNSELOR: Is that like you're curious about me?


PATIENT: I'm curious about all the things. Sometimes I think I have an insatiable curiosity. Like bringing this right back to the therapy thing. I am curious to the extent that when my wife and I got married I wanted things to go along a certain pattern and they never did develop along that pattern. So like you say, I kind of feel like I was slighted. Not really cheated, but just didn't have the spark that we should have had. Of course, like I say we came from two different backgrounds. This was before I ever got into research or anything like that but I had enough curiosity to attempt college at least. I like to examine, test, things like this you know, that I haven't examined or tested or what have you, before. Even to the extent of sexual relations. I like to experiment and things like this and my wife never has been the kind that liked to experiment up until the last year or so I guess, maybe two years. But up until that time it was either this way or nothing. So I have this feeling I think that she also has. She has told me that she feels she has been cheated for about ten years now. I also have that feeling myself if you want to get right down to it. [18:46]


COUNSELOR: Both of you feel cheated. 


PATIENT: It would seem that way.


COUNSELOR: And I guess she kind of resents you for it and you kind of resent her for it.


PATIENT: It would seem that way. 


COUNSELOR: Does it make you sad to think of that? 


PATIENT: Well, it's just the idea that you keep wondering back what would life have been like if your parents had been rich, you know? It's the first thing that pops in my mind because of the fact that right now we have so much trouble paying bills and money is a prime source of irritation shall we say.


COUNSELOR: It makes you think maybe things could have been different. It's silly to think about it because things aren't different but it still makes you think about them.


PATIENT: I used to keep in the back of my mind I wish I had a rich uncle that would die and leave me all his money but that's never going to be the case. I don't have a rich uncle. And I don't have any that I wouldn't know about because I knew about all my relatives.


COUNSELOR: You sure could use a windfall.


PATIENT: Yes I could. Do you ever play these things back or what?


COUNSELOR: Sometimes.


PATIENT: Just out of curiosity. Or is it just something to keep me nervous?


COUNSELOR: Do they make you nervous?


PATIENT: Well, I sometimes think that there are things I'd say that I don't if it wasn't for the tape recorder.


COUNSELOR: It kind of like puts a damper on you and makes you think twice before you say something.


PATIENT: Well, they put this down on paper and boy I tell you, you better watch what you say because you never can tell what they're going to ... They might decide to mail this particular tape to your wife. Of course that's not really true because I think I've said things here that she wouldn't appreciate hearing. I think it would be my feeling if she were here saying things like this about me. 


COUNSELOR: I guess it's still in the back of your mind that tapes could be mailed to your wife. It's not impossible. [22:07]


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't think really that she'd be surprised at anything she's heard. There may be some things here that I've never said to her, but not too many. We're pretty frank with each other. Sometimes to the point of being painfully frank you might say. Like I say, maybe this, is part of the problem. We tell each other too much sometimes. Going back to her and her boyfriends, like I say I'd rather hear it from her than somebody across the street or some detective agency or anything like that because I can take it from her. Or I would take it from her, whereas from somebody else I wouldn't. Or I'd take it and go straight to court with it.


COUNSELOR: I guess it's like with the tapes, it's sort of like when something's possible, you can never be 100 percent sure that it's okay. Like you can't trust 100 percent that the tapes are going to be confidential because there's just that possibility.


PATIENT: I can know that you take the tapes and get someone to record something on paper from it or something like that, and quite possibly I can completely trust you but it's that idea that they're laying out here and maybe someday some guy comes in and says, here's some tapes I think I'll just take them and see what they say, you know. Somehow you might figure out who's speaking on the tape and it wouldn't be your fault at all. It would be pure chance that something would come of it. I don't know I look at things from all possibilities. I've been accused by my wife of coming up with some pretty wild ideas, but when you're in research that's the way you're trained to think I guess you might say.


COUNSELOR: That outside chance is still a chance. [24:41]


PATIENT: You've got to consider the outside chance as possible as any other chance. Driving down the street you figure, well, I wonder if that guy over there had a flat tire and started towards me. I sit and do things like this when I'm on a trip. As if I didn't worry enough, that causes me to worry some more. Suppose that semi over there had a flat tire or a blowout on his left front tire and started towards me, where would I go and all this. It seems like sometimes I just try to think of things to worry about.


COUNSELOR: Almost like if you haven't got anything to worry about you'll figure something out. 


PATIENT: The other day started out as a usual night you might say. Went home from work - this was last Thursday night - and the wife was home playing with this little band that she started playing out there, this little summer band, mostly high school kids and some adults. Thursday nights they have a little concert in the park. So we went to this little concert in the park and afterwards we were going to the Baskin Robins to get some ice cream, treat the kids and all this. We decided we'd stop at the service station and get some gas. Pulled into the service station and didn't have any money and thought, oh well I'll just write a check. Got the gas, wrote the check out and gave it to the guy and he said, cashed checks here before? I said yes. He takes my driver's license, takes my license plate number, he goes inside and comes back and says, that you wife there? I said yes, she made out the check and signed it and everything. He said, would you come with me? What's going on? I go inside and he says, we've got three or four checks of yours here that bounced. And I said, well that's funny it's the first I've ever heard of it you know. Just embarrasses me to no end you know? It wasn't really my doing, it was my wife who had been in there several times and written checks and some of them, where we didn't have very much in the account and by the time they got there the account was dry and all this. What really happened was that this old guy that was working was about three or four stone and he turns around and calls the guy that's managing the place and is talking to him. Couldn't keep a civil tongue with me. Threatened me with, get yourself to calm down or I'll call the police. I was as calm as could be you know. A little upset, makes me nervous. A police car came through the station and he leans out the window and hollers at him and next thing you know there's three or four police cars there and it just hurt me to no end. Finally this guy that manages the place came over and he came up with one check that they had had trouble cashing in this one bank. We'd closed the account out because we had trouble with the bank. Of course the check had been no good after that and he hadn't been able to get a hold of us and for some reason or another I'd never heard about this. Of course I sometimes prefer it that way. And a big hullabaloo and all this. We got this all straightened out, left, and of course I was so upset that I just go straight home, take a couple of [inaudible at 28:08], and go to bed. The kids were all frustrated because they had to sit in that station for about an hour and they had to miss their Baskin Robins thing and all this bit. [28:19]


COUNSELOR: Big mess.


PATIENT: And of course I immediately blamed my wife and she didn't like the idea because she was trying she felt to do her best with the amount of money that she had to work with and all this. So for three days things have been kind of touchy.


COUNSELOR: Things haven't quite yet settled down.


PATIENT: They haven't got back to where they should be.


COUNSELOR: You're irritated with each other. 


PATIENT: I still feel it in the far recesses of my mind. I wish I had the intestinal fortitude to just go out someplace and run the car into a tree or something. Be done with it. Because I don't really think that if someone was to leave me a million dollars right now and I could settle up all my bills that I have, that that would be the end of my problems. There's just more to it than that. 


COUNSELOR: I didn't quite follow all the implications of that. If the money isn't the only problem and just wanting to smash the car up and forget it.


PATIENT: Well as long as it would kill me, I mean that's the only thing, suicide angle, other than that, forget it. I couldn't afford to have the car fixed so there wouldn't be any benefit from it.


COUNSELOR: I guess you're much better now. Your problems seem to pile on top of each other, and on top of each other, and on top of each other, the thought of killing yourself seems like the only solution.


PATIENT: For me anyhow. I say things like this to my wife but she goes on the defensive. No you shouldn't do that, you shouldn't even think that, and all this but I think she's more or less saying that for, you wouldn't want to leave me with all these bills would you? From my standpoint, if that's the attitude she has, hell yes I would. If that's all she's worried about, that's the impression I get, that that would be all she'd be worried about. [31:09]


COUNSELOR: Now when she says, oh you mustn't do that, you think maybe she's trying to pretend that it's out of caring for you. But you're thinking really she's worrying about the bills. 


PATIENT: I don't get the impression she's caring. To me it comes across almost 95 percent that, you wouldn't run off and leave me with all these bills would you? 


COUNSELOR: You see her as looking at you as you're someone to help with the bills.


PATIENT: I see, what was this again?


COUNSELOR: You see her attitude to you as you're just useful for getting the bills paid to her.


PATIENT: Not completely on that but it seems that once in a while, indirectly, you get this, you're not making as much as you should thing. There's really nothing you can do about it and it kind of hurts you to hear somebody say, well you should be making more money when there's really no way you can increase your salary.


COUNSELOR: It's bad enough that she doesn't seem to care about you and on top of it criticizing you about your salary and stuff.


PATIENT: I used to be the kind that wouldn't go the boss and say, I've got to have a raise, but the last year or so I have been. I've gone in to him and said, look, raises are coming up and I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a good one. Of course it didn't do a damn bit of good but I still did it, which is unusual for me. Like today I was doing something and when it came time to leave and come over here I flat out told him, I said I have an appointment at two o'clock I've got to be leaving. So he says okay. You know to me this, is kind of twisting the knife because of the fact that the raise wasn't what it should be and I've got something here that's fairly legitimate that would benefit not only me but the company in the long run. And so I kind of use it as a prying bar, I've got to go to this for a couple of hours and to heck with this job.


[telephone interruption][33:34]


PATIENT: I kind of enjoy having something where I can ditch work for a while so to speak, sort of halfway legitimate. When I first started to work where I am now the type of attitude that I had then was that I can't even get sick. I've got too much work to do; it's necessary for me to be here every day. Now I just don't give a damn. If I wake up in the morning, my wife was hinting this morning, she said, wouldn't it be nice to just stay home and go to the beach today or something like that? Of course my first opinion was that it costs money, but she said, why not tomorrow? I've got this appointment today and I can't miss this, but I said maybe tomorrow I could. So I just have a notion that when I get up in the morning if I'm so inclined I'm just going to call in and say put me on a day's vacation or something like that. To heck with it. There's just not that much importance to that job any more. 


COUNSELOR: Like if you aren't important enough to them for them to give you a raise, well they're not going to be that important to you and you're going to enjoy demonstrating that sometimes.


PATIENT: It's not only the raise, it's the responsibility that they give you too, to show that you're meaningful to them it seems.


COUNSELOR: Yes, like when you don't get assigned responsibilities I guess it seems like they don't have that much confidence in your...


PATIENT: You know, you accept attitudes and even habits of people that work around. And I've noticed that since I came to this job I have accepted quite a bit of, to me, all bad habits from one of the guys they've got working there. It bugs me to a certain extent. I would like to be able to... I don't really want to be the guy's boss, because I think within two weeks time I'd either have him doing what I wanted him to do or I'd write him off. It's just, I don't think either one of these things would accomplish that much. He's just the way he is and that's all there is to it. So, be that way from now on. 


COUNSELOR: It isn't the kind of thing you can do anything about.


PATIENT: Well you could do something about it but it has a good chance of backfiring you might say. They used to make the statement, if I ever got to be a boss I'd fire him, and if he ever got to be a boss I know he'd do the same to me. Let's put it this way, he looks like he's going to be a boss some day so I'm just going to get my little two cents worth and go. Not really. I don't think it would ever come to that but it sometimes strikes me as this may be the way things are going. [37:24]


COUNSELOR: I guess it leaves you in a helpless position with him.


PATIENT: Well, when he's the technician and I'm the so-called junior scientist it kind of makes you wonder which one ranks above the other. It just goes to prove that titles are meaningless. My wife used to work down at Wendy's and I think everybody that works at Wendy's is a manager. At least that's the story. One guy manages the grill, the other guy manages the French fries, and the other guy manages cash register one, somebody else manages cash register two.


COUNSELOR: I guess the thing is like you're a lab specialist and you would have expected that that really meant something before.


PATIENT: When I first came here this job looked very appealing. It had what you call an appealing title and it also had a much better pay than what I had been making. So I said, you're coming up in the world. And then for a couple of years things were going along and then all of a sudden things don't progress, or at least not like you think they should. The next day I told the boss that I thought I'd like to have a fairly decent raise to get back in a good financial position and also I'd like to see if I couldn't get this junior part taken off of my title. At my age I thought I ought to be a full-fledged instead of a junior. He seemed to ignore both of them so I just ignored the job so to speak and do what I feel is absolutely necessary and let the rest of it go.


COUNSELOR: It kind of eats away at you the way they just ignored what you want.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: I guess you feel that you deserve to be appreciated and you aren't being appreciated. [40:22]


PATIENT: Well I think when you get treated that way at your job and you feel like you're getting treated the same way at home then they just have a way of compounding things.


COUNSELOR: Like you're not respected at your job and you aren't respected at home and your wishes are disregarded at your job and your wishes are disregarded at home.


PATIENT: Maybe even at church, that's the only other thing, well, that and 4H. I have four segments to my life it seems like: work, home, church and any extra-curricular activity which is very limited usually, but right now, or during the school year anyhow how that's church group and members. So when the first two most important and everything seem to be losing ground so to speak, then you wonder what's the use in the other two when the first two are 75 percent of your life anyhow, why worry about the other two? Who cares what you are with them? It makes me irresponsible. When I first started this little thing on Sunday night where I lead the singing at the church and all I thought it was a position where there's no pay involved but there's a little bit of prestige and you try to do a fairly good job. You try to be there on time and all this. It got to the point where I wouldn't even be there on time. I wouldn't be prepared. Right now it's getting to the point where I don't even care if I show up or not. I think of some flimsy excuse or sometimes I don't even bother with excuses I just won't show. I feel this, is a holdover from not only my job, but also from my home life. It's affecting me to a certain degree and it's just influenced everything that I do.


COUNSELOR: Is it like your job and your home life, the way your wife treats you and the way you're treated at your job makes you feel like, what's the point? If I do something it won't be appreciated anyway. [42:57]


PATIENT: Right. And if I don't do they they'll just say, well that's what we expected. So you just get to a point where you don't give a damn whether you do anything or not.


COUNSELOR: I guess it's sort of like implicitly you're thinking why should I work for the church if they're going to react the same way? They're not going to appreciate me either. What's the point?


PATIENT: So the only thing really left is the scouts or the cub scouts and it seems so far removed. You get in there, you work yourself to death for it and you get a little bit of applause maybe at one meeting or something and that's it.


COUNSELOR: It's not enough.


PATIENT: Well it's not enough but it's not substantial. It's just a front. And all the time you're trying to keep this 4H pack thing going and really at the back of your mind the thing that's really important are those bills that you can't even pay and yet you go ahead and run to the 4H meetings twice a week to keep things going there and spend money that you don't even have to spend.


COUNSELOR: Something came to my mind just like it really leaves a hole in you not being appreciated. Like there's really something missing in your life.


PATIENT: Like I say, the idea that there's maybe somebody in this world that will love me or appreciate me keeps haunting me. It should have gone away when I got married but it didn't. In the back of my mind I keep saying well someplace there's somebody that's going to appreciate me or love me or something. But I don't really feel I'm getting that any place else. My wife says she loves me, yeah, I'll bet. I mean that's my reaction to it. I don't say that but in the back of my mind it's, yeah, I'll bet. But then why do you do things like this and things like that.


COUNSELOR: You keep wanting it from somewhere and you think well maybe somewhere.


PATIENT: And yet you don't want it. I keep saying to myself, now stop and think. Suppose there was some little gal that came along that you fell head over heels in love with and all this, I mean what in the world would you do? Your life would just be that much more mixed up. I have a friend that... a couple that used to live in The Village and moved to Louisiana and everything. This guy was head over heels in love with his secretary and yet he lived at home. He'd come home seven, eight, nine, ten o'clock at night normally, sometimes two, three, four, five in the morning on occasions. He'd have been out either running around or at her house or something like that. Bills weren't getting paid because he was spending more money on her than he really could afford to. It was really pathetic that the situation... I keep thinking, now suppose something like that was to happen to you, what would you do? I don't want that either. [46:42]


COUNSELOR: Like in reality you think of the complications and what a mess it would be. But the feeling of needing something or wanting something is still there. [inaudible at 47:09] you're the number one person for someone.


PATIENT: Yes, and you really don't get the feeling that it's your wife because she doesn't give you the impression that you're number one. A lot of times I say, well now, I guess I'm as close to her as anybody else, but sometimes I wonder when she every once in a while: I sure wish old what's his name would call again. And it cuts right to the bone. I don't think she really realizes how much something like that cuts, hurts, whatever.


COUNSELOR: That tells you that she's all interested and excited about what's his name not about you. You're number two.


PATIENT: When you quiz her about it or bring it up or something she's just, it's just I'd kind of like to talk to him for a few minutes and that would be it. And you don't really see it that way.


COUNSELOR: It's like the [inaudible at 48:23] of what she has in mind.


PATIENT: No that's not all she has in mind, that's the excuse that she uses to validate it. 


COUNSELOR: Have you ever told your wife that you don't think she cares about you really? [49:48]


PATIENT: In those exact words, I don't know. I don't think so. I think I've said it in some other ways but maybe she didn't grasp it. Like when two or three weeks ago I said... she had said that if there wasn't some positive reaction out of this therapy that she wanted a divorce. Well that just goes to confirm any suspicions that I have that she doesn't care for me. 


COUNSELOR: It sure doesn't look like caring. Maybe she thinks the other way. Maybe it comes across to her like you're annoyed with her for doing this and that instead of really being bothered by what she's doing as an indication of her real attitude towards you. I didn't say that quite right. Do you see what I mean?


PATIENT: I think I do. I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that she says - maybe I'm the same way I just don't realize it - she says she loves me and the tone that she says it really doesn't reinforce what she's saying. It's just that, yeah I love you too. That's the attitude that I get. And 99 percent of the time it seems like I'm the one that's trying. I initiate this by telling her I love her and then she turns around and says, yeah I love you too in that ho-hum, well if I have to say it I will.


COUNSELOR: You feel she says it because she has to not...


PATIENT: And it seems like to me she should just have a little recording; whenever I tell her she just turns a recording on and she won't even have to say it then. I mean really I don't want her to even say it unless she means it. I just never have been one of these kind to lead people on I guess you'd say. I don't like to use people and lead them on. Not like some guys that would go out with a girl and tell her they love her and all this and when they get tired of her they drop her. That's all there is to it, no hard feelings on their part at all, it's just part of the game. Me, whenever I say something I mean it. It seemed like to me now more than ever I don't really mean what I say and I think maybe it has something do to with her influence on me or work, influence at work, I don't know.


COUNSELOR: You don't like to see yourself getting that way.


PATIENT: No. I would really rather remain a sincere individual than to be one that would lie to everybody, not really mean a thing I say. That's not the kind of person I want to be associated with. If you have a person that tells you they'll be there at three and never show up at three you finally get to the point where they say, well they'll be there at three you don't plan on being there till three-thirty, four o'clock because you know very well that they won't be there at all. It seems like that's the way my wife is. We're supposed to be at church at nine thirty on Sunday morning; we never get there on time. To me it's just a lack of I don't know what, but she just doesn't have ambition or she just doesn't really care whether she's there on time or not. Like I said, it's affected me and I don't really like it. [54:43]


COUNSELOR: I think we should quit for today. Next Wednesday?


PATIENT: This coming Wednesday?


COUNSELOR: One-thirty, three-thirty?


PATIENT: Let's make it three-thirty.


COUNSELOR: Okay. You look like you're feeling a bit down.


PATIENT: Well I am but I think I'm going to be able to overcome it this time for some reason. A couple of weeks ago there when I got so depressed it took me a couple of days to get over it, but now it's just I don't have the impression that it's going to last very long. I feel like I'll get out and go back to work and get me a coke or something and it'll be all right. Maybe that's an improvement. Maybe it's not going to be that way at all. I don't know. I think I was subconsciously depressed before I ever came in here because of this job that keeps stalling me without giving me a definite answer whether they'll hire me or not. It kind of disgusts me like I said. I've been looking for three months but I keep getting this, I don't know, it seems like the same old story to me.


COUNSELOR: That happens to me sometimes the same way. Sometimes I'll be depressed without even realizing it. It's only when I start to talk about it and think about it that I'll realize that I've been depressed all along. 


END TRANSCRIPT
