TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: How are you?
COUNSELOR: Good. How are you?
PATIENT: Are you sure? 
(Laughter)
COUNSELOR: How come?
PATIENT: I don't know. You just look tired.
COUNSELOR: I am a little tired.
PATIENT: Yeah. Your eyes are slightly (inaudible) again. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: I actually missed being here last week. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: I don't know. It was just kind of interesting.
COUNSELOR: Interesting in what way?
PATIENT: Because I think I wanted to ... talk more about what had been going on. And I wanted ... more feedback on my dreams for example.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And ... and I was wondering ... what happened when - two things. What happened to me? And I was thinking - because when I went to - well let me just back up. When I went to call you I had your card in my wallet.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You mean.
PATIENT: And I was calling from Pennsylvania. So. And I saw that it was ... you said cognitive something therapy. And I thought the cognitive was all about knowing. And - and different kinds of you know different kinds of knowing. And what did I know? What did I know or what happened or what was it that - that it happened a couple of weeks before when - when I said when I walked out the door and turned my back on you I knew that I couldn't rely on father anymore. 
And I thought you know something's going on there. But I realized that I had no handle on it. On the other hand I realized I got a form from the hospital about - you know with all of these questions - you're mid way through (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And on ... I'm like well what if they change. You know? I wish I felt like a big change. But I know it's - I know it's there. 
COUNSELOR: And you. Say that a little more. I'm not quite clear what you're saying. You don't?
PATIENT: Well you know when you circle those things like what are you feeling?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I couldn't really remember what I had put before. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I'm sure you're not supposed to. I mean - I don't really know. But ... what I - as I was writing it I was able to - you know sometimes when you - you're some place and you come back to the same place some time later - the same place you suddenly realize that something really has changed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So I - what I realized was different in doing this was that ... I don't have the physical stuff ... anymore. [2:52]
COUNSELOR: The left side pains.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's gone. And I haven't felt it for a long time. Maybe like a month. And I don't have the - you know I don't have any headaches. I don't the stiff neck unless I've been you know working for you know 7 or 8 hours with the family for a long time. I'm like no - but I feel tense here. 
But ... I don't have the pain anymore. I don't have the pain in my breasts except sometimes when I'm working with a woman with breast cancer. And then I know almost without asking her where her vasectomy was because it's on my other side. But it's on my other side now. I mean it's not the same one - the same left breast. I don't have the funny back aches - the lower back pain that I use to have all of the time.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And nothing has changed. I mean nothing has changed physically. I don't exercise more. I don't eat less. I don't ... do meditation. So I know that something is really changed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: Because my body's telling me that it's changed. And I still love to walk. I walk up here from the ... 79th Street easily. You know as I always do. I mean usually I like to do a longer walk but. I was thinking that the feeling of breathing was a good feeling. And that I don't spend so much time looking out anymore at people. I use to be very interested in what people looked like. I don't - it's more that it's turning inside.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.

PATIENT: That it was outside. It use to be watching all different people. And now I notice that I can do it or not do it. But more is going on in here - inside. And these seem like physical things. But I don't think they're just physical things. I don't think the physical things before were just - I'm sure they were connected to mental state. 
So as I filled that form out I thought you know ... a lot has changed and some things haven't changed at all. So ... I was kind of hoping for some feedback from you - some sort of.
COUNSELOR: You know that we're half.
PATIENT: Gauging.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Now that we're half way. We're sort of at this half way point. And.
COUNSELOR: Help just.
PATIENT: I don't really know where to go.
COUNSELOR: Do you know how ... much have you been. You came in saying that you felt kind of lost. You know that you weren't ... you know.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How much of that's will? Has that changed at all? [5:25]
PATIENT: My feelings of loss have changed. But my feelings of being lost haven't.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And my feelings about - I mean they're - it still catches me on ... and makes me very sad. I mean I'm a - you know I have a very physical punch in the chest. When I think about it I feel like crying. 
COUNSELOR: You just felt it right now?
PATIENT: Just now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Because I was remembering ... when I was making beds this morning and ... I was - as I scoot down the (inaudible) I suddenly thought ... God, why you know? I didn't really - I had to have a fun dream and I couldn't remember it. I thought I didn't dream that I was dead. But you know I wouldn't mind being dead. I was like oh my God. (laughs) You know? It was like so scary. And I was really scared. So that the feeling of lost hasn't gone.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And it scares me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Did it - does it feel scary now?
PATIENT: But ... but it feels like stuff is coming in circles.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I don't know what ... what I'm.
COUNSELOR: Does it feel hard to stay with this scariness? I thought that it might be but I don't know.
PATIENT: Doesn't feel as hard with you here. I think ... I'm more willing to stay with it now. So ... (inaudible) ... so to be able to find me some help ... and I don't know what that is like. I mean like what kind of help that is. [7:42]
COUNSELOR: So you were smoothing out the bad and you just felt like maybe I'll just go to sleep forever. That wouldn't be so bad ... to kind of forget.
PATIENT: No. I'll forget ... but I don't ... I'm talking about the future. The past feels good. But.
COUNSELOR: Is that why you see it or?
PATIENT: I can't see it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: There are parts of it ... Oddly enough I think it's really - I mean I may be kidding myself but I think it's tied up with money anxiety. And my sense of worthlessness is not ... not so much in ... it's not obviously on a day to day. It's like you know what can I do now that's worthwhile that ... will go on a - will be you know that I can earn some money. It has to do with - the work just has to do with suddenly not feeling like I can go back and.
COUNSELOR: You can manage the work.
PATIENT: And earn money. And you know I mean my kids were here this weekend which is why I was rushing. I mean I was supposed to be home Tuesday. And then my in-laws ran into all kinds of problems. And I didn't get home until late in the week and later - much later in the week just before my kids came home for the weekend. 
Jake came home. And Millie came over to be with him. And we had a great time. And I don't know just hanging out. It was just too cold to go outside. We just all stayed in and sat in the kitchen for hours talking. And I thought these - I'm fooling them.
COUNSELOR: Into thinking you're okay? [10:19]
PATIENT: I told them about my therapy. And they were really fascinated. And they both said ... you talk you know it sounds like it's really good mom. And it makes us wish that you know that we had - we would go into therapy. You know therapy's not scary for us at all. It sounds really interesting.
COUNSELOR: Because you love them so.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I tell them just some of the things that I'm dealing with. But what I - what I was thinking about was ... and I told them this. And since I told everybody this (laughs) it kind of obviously means something. I mean everybody. I told George and Millie and Jake and Brad. 
The only - it's like somehow ... sitting here across from you is like a fight. It's like a - it's like a pushing pull you kind of thing. That I'm trying to be ... as real as I can but I'm not. Because I'm trying to protect you. Because I don't have a relationship with you at some levels. So. Because I don't know anything about you. I'm trying to protect you because you are somebody who has to be (inaudible). (laughs) 
So obviously that has something to do with ... looking after other people in the same way. And protecting other people.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Which I'm real good at. But it's also a social ... jone (ph). You know it's also the social - it's needs careful ... to protect you from my pain. I'm sure you can handle it. But it's me that keeping back. I'm putting up the barrier. 
COUNSELOR: Like you do with your kids along the way? [12:30]
PATIENT: Well yeah. I mean that's what I was saying. That when I said that to them I had this thing about I wonder if I'm protecting you the way I protect them. They certainly know that I spent the last year in a really bad place. 
COUNSELOR: It feels like you're protecting me right now actually.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: As you speak here you're really said what would happen if just started really crying?
PATIENT: I really am good (inaudible) feelings about this.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That doesn't bring it any closer to us though. (Inaudible) further away.
PATIENT: Yeah. It did.
COUNSELOR: That thought.
PATIENT: That (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Very unappealing.
PATIENT: Very unappealing. 
COUNSELOR: Can you say what it would do? It would be.
PATIENT: I would be - I would be ... the thing that comes to my mind is I would not be like her. If I were really sad I would not be like her. And.
COUNSELOR: So what? I mean suppose you're not like (inaudible).
PATIENT: I don't know what the - I don't know what is the opposite. The opposite of that seems like ... what is the opposite of that? The opposite of that is like ... the opposite of that is my mother. The world is a ... the world is a terrible place. Everybody is out to hurt you. God takes away your husband. Your daughter goes Europe the rest of her life. Your son marries the wrong woman. That - that's the opposite. [15:14]
COUNSELOR: You work very hard to try to keep those parts of her out of you but you can't.
PATIENT: I think ... I think it's been a pretty unconscious effort. But I've been at it for a long time. I can almost remember exactly when it happened. And it had something to do with ... desire for a lot. I wanted a lot. I always wanted a lot. I mean not a lot of things. I wanted a lot of experience. 
But when I was 13 I was - and my mother grew up in Miami Beach in (inaudible) and we were visiting her step-mother and father. And she didn't like them. I knew she didn't like them. She went like a dutiful daughter. But we had to spend quite a month there in the summer so she could be with them. I don't know why she - when she hated them. But she didn't hate her father. She loved her father. She hated her step-mother.
And they were in a big fight in the kitchen of this house. And I went out.
COUNSELOR: Who was (inaudible) step-father? I mean step-mother?
PATIENT: My mother and my step-mother. And she was really cutting my mother down. And my mother was kind of taking it. And I thought you know I can't imagine why she hates him. You know why is she here? And I went out and it was - the house was near a big - it was a big pine trees in front of the house. And a stand of pine trees by the sea or the bay or whatever that was. And I went out - I went out into the middle of this pine grove and I grabbed the biggest tree. And I put my arms around it and I looked up and I said I will never do that.
COUNSELOR: You'll never?
PATIENT: I'll never be like my mother.
COUNSELOR: Be - be so (inaudible).
PATIENT: You know I'm going to look up. I'm not going to look down. And I felt rooted with that feeling.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just like the tree. It was a very (inaudible) experience. [18:05]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I went back and I didn't care what my mother did anymore. You know? I felt sorry but I didn't care. And so I spent all of this time trying not to be negative, sad.
COUNSELOR: Can you?
PATIENT: Weak. Vulnerable.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible).
PATIENT: Yep.
COUNSELOR: I mean sometimes a lot - a 13 year old you know you can't not be those things right then. I mean I'm.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know I suppose this is a belief I have that you are and that's a healthy thing for a 13 year old to try but.
PATIENT: Yeah. But you really try. And my (inaudible) after that it was very considerate. 
COUNSELOR: So considerate when someone comes to the door in the therapy office you notice that they're tired in about a tenth of a second.
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: But it's ... and in part it's ... that sort of shadows by themselves you know. Put it down. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Keep it down there. And yet I know that all of the stuff that I tell all of the people that I work with is that's real. That's real but I don't experience it for myself. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And even when I cry with my patients for example ... I'm crying for them not for me. You know I don't even - I don't even acknowledge the - my losses. I just stay with them. Which is you know which is okay but. You know when people keep saying doesn't it get you down? Doesn't it get? No it doesn't. It doesn't and I keep on (inaudible) ... if I had to go back and redo my own losses every time I lost a patient whom I come to love and care about ... that would be hard. So that's another reason for pushing it down. [20:57]
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you're protecting me right now?
PATIENT: Um-hum.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. How are you doing it?
PATIENT: I'm doing it by not talking about (inaudible). I mean I'm literally here. Do you know what I'm saying? And that's what I always do when I'm angry.
COUNSELOR: You cover up.
PATIENT: If I don't say it. So that it be up - I mean I'm aware of what I'm doing. But.
COUNSELOR: What do you pray would happen if you stopped doing that and just said whatever that angry feeling was to say?
PATIENT: Well what happens is the anger - what I can do is I can do anger. And then when I do this I'm actually trying to decide when I'm going to be angry. And usually I just decide not to. I just decided not to. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: I noticed.
PATIENT: I can just - I mean I can feel it. (laughs) It just goes.
COUNSELOR: Well what would?
PATIENT: But the relief of saying to you that I just stopped being angry with you is really a nice feeling. I mean I feel.
COUNSELOR: But.
PATIENT: I feel a relief that I'm not angry with you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But we won't.
PATIENT: But I still wish that I could be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well what can we?
PATIENT: That I'd be angry with you about.
COUNSELOR: Well what - what is going on? I mean were you angry with me? Did you have a thought that you were angry at me about something?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: It went away.
PATIENT: I was thinking about the fact that ... the - somehow the (inaudible) sadness just doesn't make any sense. Because the sadness is anger. And I don't really understand that. But it's ... whenever I push them down ... anger and sadness. But sometimes the sadness is about anger.
COUNSELOR: Were you mad at me?
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: No. I'm not protecting you either. (laughs) I wasn't angry with you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But you - but you - but you don't know (inaudible).
PATIENT: But I felt angered and I didn't want to tell you about it.
COUNSELOR: You didn't want to bring it in here?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And what are you afraid would happen? [23:37]
PATIENT: I don't know. It's that ... not only am I scared of my anger everybody else is too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But I don't - that's your perception I know.
PATIENT: I know. (laughs) I know.
COUNSELOR: And I don't want to but it may be true. I mean you said that when you'd gotten upset in the past people (inaudible) crazy.
PATIENT: Other people have gone crazy.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. So maybe if I - I mean I don't think the perception is wrong but it ... but I'm willing to think that it might not be. 
COUNSELOR: Right. We don't know right now but you know.
PATIENT: I don't know. I really don't know. All I know is that people when they describe me as angry about something they are very undone by it.
COUNSELOR: Do you ever throw things when you get angry?
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: So you would never let yourself go crazy?
PATIENT: No. I don't.
COUNSELOR: Or maybe you don't even have the (inaudible).
PATIENT: Oh. I think that - I don't have the - I think the only time I ever throw something it was ... I even told you about it. It was unusual - about throwing a salad at my daughter. 
COUNSELOR: What was that? I don't remember that you told.
PATIENT: Oh. He was - I had lent him the car and we were.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: And he went out and he.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Came back much later with the pizza. And the kids were starving. And I said forget it. You know you couldn't bother with me. And she has never forgotten that. And consequently I haven't let myself forget it either.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel guilty about it?
PATIENT: No I don't. (laughs) I kind of feel good about it. (laughs) I don't feel guilty about it at all. 
COUNSELOR: So what did you feel guilt - angry about in here just five minutes ago?
PATIENT: I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: This was a feeling though?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well it was about anger. I don't know what I was feeling angry. I was feeling sad.
COUNSELOR: But you said that like you choose not to say or something like.
PATIENT: And then I thought I was. Yeah. I felt - I mean it went by so quickly. And I stopped myself. Don't say nothing.
COUNSELOR: You heard like you (inaudible). 
PATIENT: Like it was like a little voice type of thing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Don't say anything about this. You know?
COUNSELOR: And you can't remember what that was?
PATIENT: I wish I could.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Okay. You know.
PATIENT: Because I feel like I could handle it. When anger gets some distance from the sadness then I can do it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [26:37]
PATIENT: When the anger is close to the sadness I can't.
COUNSELOR: Feel sort of overwhelmed.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It'll come back. You don't have to try so hard now.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah I know. And yet when I think about anger and I think how angry ... I guess what I see here is a little - is sometimes I always don't look at this but I think it's like me in a way. Is that he's very angry with his parents. He thinks he really fucked him over and they did. And they don't love him. (laughs) I mean it's so clear they don't love him. But it's like we make up for that. You know? 
He can't - he hates them. I mean he really hates them. But we spend all this time. We drove their fucking car. (inaudible) good, good. (laughs) Drove their fucking car all of the way to Texas in the middle of the night. We were totally exhausted. We left Thursday night in the middle of the night. And finally just our good sense prevailed and we stopped at 3 o'clock in the morning and slept. And then drove on you know. 
And ... they don't like him. But they call us as soon as anything is wrong. We're the people to the rescue. She considers me her favorite daughter-in-law. And George keeps saying why are you so nice to them when you don't like them any better than I do?
And it's a very good question because it's really the way I operate with my mother too. That's the way I operated with her too. And I can't - when I'm with them I can completely forget my anger. And I don't know acknowledge it. I mean I know it's there. But I don't acknowledge it until I'm away from them. And then I can acknowledge it. 
COUNSELOR: To George maybe?
PATIENT: To George and to myself that I'm - but he's angry with them all of the time. He's and I mean I think that kind of anger is useless. I mean I don't know. I don't know. It only hurts him. I mean it beats him up something terrible. But my anger is really of the moment much more than you know like ... like I - we hadn't been honest with them about our financial stuff, right? So we said okay we can - we can drive you down but we can't drive you - can't - we can't afford to fly back. I said that. George couldn't say that to his parents. But I said we can't afford to fly back. We don't have any money.
And she said to us okay I - we don't have any money problems. I'll pay for your tickets back. So it came to time to fly back and she gave me the money for one ticket. So I thought either I can take the bus back or drive back which is really stupid or I'm going to put this money on a flight back. And I didn't say.
COUNSELOR: What happened - why - what happened there? [29:41]
PATIENT: I don't know. I didn't say to her you know that's only flight money for one. Why didn't I? Why didn't I think better and say you know mom that's not - that's only for one fare? 
COUNSELOR: When you said it right now though what did you feel? When you imagined saying it. 
PATIENT: Confusion.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like why didn't I do that? Why didn't I do that? You know I'm not.
COUNSELOR: There's something - well what do you think?
PATIENT: I think that I don't want to embarrass her. She's my mother-in-law. 
COUNSELOR: She - she just really fucked you over though.
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs) She really did.
COUNSELOR: I mean she just said she would do one thing and then.
PATIENT: Things are real. I mean for that reason I can't give Jake money to you know to have a few days on spring break. I'd much rather spend the money on Jake than on me or on her. That's for sure. So why didn't? 
And one of the things that the guy I'm working with at the group home though - the Chaplain. I'm his assistant. And I was angry about ... one of my patients was dying and his Chaplain - his Chaplain did. I said to him Jerry please say - come and say you know I don't feel like I can do this. Come and say a pray. This guy is awake or you know this is. And I said come and say a pray for him. He said - he told me and he leaned over and he said well don't worry Thomas we'll remember you in our prayers.
Fucking don't worry I'll remember. You know? What? The guy is going to be dead in a few hours and what are you talking about? You know? It's not where his faith is. I don't know where yours is. But I said nothing. 
And this is my - this is a pattern. This is my pattern. And I don't say that. I simply said thanks. And I stayed with Thomas until he died. And I read the Psalms that I know he loves. Because I've been with him for three months. And so I went then and I talked to the Chaplain. 
And I said okay Jerry you know here's what happened. He said what did it do you? So why did you know? You didn't do it. You didn't accomplish anything by not getting angry. You got - you didn't get out what he needed. You didn't get you what you needed. You didn't tell him how you really felt. And he's gone away thinking that he's did a fine job. He said so you have nothing all because you couldn't tell him what you really mean. 
COUNSELOR: But. So we can.
PATIENT: And that you were angry.
COUNSELOR: So and yet in that moment all of the logic you can muster doesn't.
PATIENT: Doesn't work against that.
COUNSELOR: Doesn't get you over the.
PATIENT: It doesn't get me. And the same way with my mother. I didn't say to her you know that's not - that's only enough for one ticket.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And besides George took two days off of week. And I took a whole week off of work. You know I - I mean okay I'm not getting paid but these are things - these people - I'm committed to these other people.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: They're important to me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [32:30]
PATIENT: And you know I took a week for you. And George took four days for you. And this is only enough for one fare.
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: Why didn't I just say that? And I ended up being very angry with her. But not telling her. 
COUNSELOR: Well do you remember what you felt in that moment?
PATIENT: I felt like I - like that she didn't get it. How could I embarrass her by saying you know that's not enough money? And my idea - my ideas is always that somebody else needs to be protected. Just like you. Just like Millie, Jake, George. Everybody needs to be protected from my anger. 
 Like why couldn't I just say it without being real angry? You know instead of letting it get to the point where I felt really angry about it why didn't I just say this is not enough? You know? Or why didn't I say Jerry that's not what I need? Are you the guy that had a relationship with this guy at all? Pray with him. He's going to be dead in a few hours.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know? And I didn't. I always have this feeling that everybody else knows better than me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So don't make waves for them because they have to be protected. You know don't - don't expand their knowledge of you. Don't expand their knowledge of what's - what's - my whole idea is what good does anger do? But I'm beginning to really see it's got to be there. But I'm scared of it. So.
COUNSELOR: See I think that you're saying even as you say this it makes me feel like you're scared of it because you're saying why couldn't I say it without getting really, really angry. And my sense is that you're afraid that if you got really, really angry you could really destroy them personally not literally but in some way really do - make the relationship go bad.
PATIENT: Well ... I'm not sure. I think with some people I could. The one time that I got really, really mad for a long period of time was when I was splitting up with Phil. And - and I would you know I would really - I would really shout at him. And I would make sure the kids weren't there. And in fact the day we decided - that he came and said you know I think we really have to - you're right we have to call this marriage to a quits.
He had - actually had his girlfriend take the kids on a picnic so that he could come home and be with me and tell me this. And I - I did you know I was completely angry but it felt very good cathartic (ph) because I don't care about hurting him. It's when I care about the person that I think they can't take my anger.
COUNSELOR: So maybe you're trying to protect yourself.
PATIENT: So. And. Yeah. Its something about like what kind of person am I that would get so angry. You know to be angry is a big no no.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You were taught that from (inaudible).
PATIENT: Oh yeah. You can't be sad. You can't be angry. You can't cry because you'll be ugly. And I did all of those things in that relationship - at the end of that other relationship. And it was very spiteful (ph) to me. [35:30]
COUNSELOR: But did.
PATIENT: Go ahead.
COUNSELOR: Do you think you don't want to get mad at people who you want to kind of - you think you don't get mad at people who you need in some way? 
PATIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: That you're afraid that you'll just destroy them and so they won't be there to love you? 
PATIENT: I think that's just - that's possible. Yeah. Yeah I think that's possible. And ... my feeling is well you can always go get somebody else to love. But not your kids. You know?
COUNSELOR: Well that's a - that's a funny thought.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: To me. Like - what do you mean you know?
PATIENT: (Laughs) I mean I know it's - it's strange. That it doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
COUNSELOR: You know well I guess it feels to me like it's.
PATIENT: It's certainly split.
COUNSELOR: It moves you away from just the human ... condition in a way which is that you're ... that you're afraid that if you're angry or push them away and you'll be alone. And in some sense it's ... you know then you - then it feels like you're going to end up saying well I can always go out and find someone else. But just to kind of stay with fear for a minute.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: You know? Is that what it was like? Like it had moved you away from that or maybe I misheard you or didn't know what that thought meant to you.
PATIENT: Well you're right. It moves me away from the anger. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It moves me away from the anger. They would - I - my ideal way of thinking is that people should be able to be angry with each other and get over it. But ever since I've been with George I haven't been able. I've only been able to do that once and that was right at the beginning of the relationship. It was very good for me to be really angry. 
It was extremely painful. But the pain like was like fire. I'll never forget these moments of real anger. It's like a fire. And it - but it burns through a lot of shit. I mean it burns through things that aren't important too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So ... it's terrifying while it's happening. But.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel out of control?
PATIENT: Sometimes. Yeah. Sometimes. But it's probably too something like what you were saying is that you could say things that could never be repaired. And yet everything it seems to me can be repaired. But it has that feeling like. [38:34]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It could never be repaired.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well let's see right now let's make some room for a more kind of vulnerable part of you. And let's do that by ... I just want to be that by pointing out the point well - see you're right now kind of - it's like you're making - you know intellectually that there's no - that it's better to be angry than to repress anger. 
And yet in a moment when your mother-in-law only gives you half of the money that she said she would give you or the Chaplain's assistant doesn't do - doesn't help end a man's life with dignity when you asked him to. In that moment the logic doesn't.
PATIENT: Work.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Doesn't work.
COUNSELOR: And I'm suggesting that we allow that my vulnerable part of you in and to kind of say there's something very frightening in that to you. You know? That that's I think what's getting pushed aside. There's a part of you that's afraid you know. 
PATIENT: Oh yes. 
COUNSELR: You can think it through.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I think there is a part of me that's afraid.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: And there is a part of me - as you're saying will feel that if my anger's rejected well but I'll be or maybe I'll be rejected because I'm angry.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: And if I'm rejected because I'm angry it won't be repairable.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Can't - I won't be able to repair it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Because in the past everybody has remembered when I really was angry.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Or they - it seems to me that they take a - seems to take on a tremendous amount of importance to them.
COUNSELOR: What are you thinking of when you have those memories? What are you remembering?
PATIENT: I usually feel angry when I feel powerless.
COUNSELOR: But are you thinking of specific times when people went crazy when you got angry? [40:54]
PATIENT: I'm thinking of two particular times when I saw that ... they met my anger with ... disbelief first and then with ... and then with a rationalization like they didn't say you're angry. I mean they responded to me being angry. But they didn't hear ... what I was saying. They saw the emotions. And they saw my anger. But they didn't you know it didn't make any difference because they didn't in a way that I - I felt better. But they didn't hear what I was saying. I think.
COUNSELOR: But what's the - what's - are you thinking about incidents?
PATIENT: I was thinking of ... you know. Alright. I'm thinking of standing in the bathroom in my house in (inaudible) and.
COUNSELOR: When you were a child?
PATIENT: No. In - when I was with Phil in the bathroom. And ... and I said to him ... I know that you met Grace last night. 
COUNSELOR: Who was this? Was this his mistress?
PATIENT: This was his mistress. I know you met Grace last night. And I know that you met her down by the river. And he looked at me with complete and utter belief. And he said how did you know that? I said I don't know. I just know that. And I was furious because he had told me he was going to the library. And I knew - I mean he was - being betrayed was really an awful feeling. 
And he said - and I was angry because I wanted to say yes I did. You know. Or whatever. I'm not sure what I wanted him to say really. I wanted him to say yes I did it and I'm sorry. Well he wasn't going to say that. He wasn't sorry. But he didn't even say yes I did. He said you spoiled all of my fun. I said what the fuck are you talking about? He said the excitement of having an affair is that nobody knows about it.
And I said well I know about it (inaudible). And it hurts a lot. I said I know about it without even knowing about it. I didn't you know I know what you're doing and where you are. And you know when you go out for 20 minutes I know you're making - calling her. And I said that's what people do. I mean I'm not stupid. I did that with you in fact.
We had had an affair while I was with another guy. I said don't you remember what we did? I mean how could - how could you think it could be any different that I wouldn't know? Because I just - you taught me how to do this.
COUNSELOR: So in that moment with Phil.
PATIENT: Phil [43:51]
COUNSELOR: Phil. I'm sorry. He - he had you feeling utterly powerless. And you reacted by ... you swang it all of the way - the pendulum all of the way to the other extreme and portrayed yourself almost as (inaudible). I mean or admission let's say. Meaning that you knew you know. My pointing out that.
PATIENT: But. Yeah. Okay. And then I swung back. And I just said you can't do this anymore.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: This hurts like hell. You know do it and go. And I knew if I - when I and I said go. I knew that he would. And I didn't really you know there's a whole part of me that didn't want him to.
COUNSELOR: But there was a way that you originally said that as an example how people don't take your anger seriously?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well he just ... I mean he was trying to - he would - he didn't - he didn't reflect my anger back to me. He - he looked at me and said what are you - why are you angry then? You know? Why are you spoiling my fun? How can you be angry?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well that's just like ... sounds like he didn't take you - he didn't think you were crazy. He didn't take it at all seriously.
PATIENT: At - as the - as it went on he began to. But my anger didn't change anything. I guess.
COUNSELOR: So it's really about feeling powerless but.
PATIENT: It's about feeling powerless.
COUNSELOR: So then part of what you're saying is ... that you're afraid of being angry because you're afraid that will be like you're reaction of last resort. And why - not even.
PATIENT: Not work.
COUNSELOR: Work. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And then you would feel really powerless.
PATIENT: Absolutely. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Then - I mean that's what and that somehow falls into the sadness.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So that it if you express anger and get something done ... but you know what I don't think that's been my experience. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: (Laughs) If you express anger. Oh my God. If you express anger and nothing happens anyway. You know nothing changes. Then you really know that you've ... did you withhold this anger for a long time? And then you take a shot at it. And people are so surprised that you're angry because you've been presenting these sort of logic things or talking logically or being sympathetic or whatever the hell it is. 
And then you finally get angry because you feel powerless to make any other statement that will work. And then you get angry. It's very scary because you're not allowed to get angry. You know (inaudible) girls don't get angry. And then you get angry. And you come out (inaudible) oh Geez and you're still powerless.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [46:37]
PATIENT: So if you're - if you're - this doesn't work. And then you use that and you're so powerless. Then you must be really powerless.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know you must not ... count for anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. 
PATIENT: And then.
COUNSELOR: Well but yeah.
PATIENT: Then sad.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. 
PATIENT: So.
COUNSELOR: Well that's very important I think. And I think that I wasn't understanding. I mean I don't know that that idea of well of feeling you'll destroy isn't true but this seems to be more.
PATIENT: No. [Very destroy. Very destroyed of the relationship] (ph). Yes.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. That's really there too.
COUNSELOR: But they're both there. They're both there.
PATIENT: But I mean if you destroy your relationship you have with your kids because you want your way of something rather than saying these people are on their own now. These aren't - these aren't my creations. These are themselves.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's a very funny line to walk there.
COUNSELOR: Well this week you know maybe just be aware as possible any time that you kind of hold back. You know?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I don't - it sounds like you're actually are pretty aware.
PATIENT: I'm trying to be aware because I know I have this feeling from way back when that it's withholding anger - I mean it's withholding the anger from George about the business.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That made me feel very depressed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And then made me feel powerless. And now I - and the powerless became generalized into.
COUNSELOR: Into this feeling of being really lost.
PATIENT: Into this feeling of being about being lost.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean I know that it started with anger. I know that it started with not expressing the anger. And it just became like a cloud. And if you can't do anything about it. If you can't - if you're powerless you might as well die.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know if you can't envision your future beyond where you are again - the person that you feel you have been then you might as well just lie down and die. [48:33]
COUNSELOR: And this sometimes comes right (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Oh I'm sure. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Okay. I'm (inaudible).
PATIENT: Anyway. I'll try to - I mean that's what I want to do. I should try to be aware of it. Maybe I'll try to (hesitation in tape at 48:44) because I always carry a notebook. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did you - did you want to wait and pay or do you want to (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Yeah. Can I? I really don't have any.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You can. 
PATIENT: Any money. 
COUNSELOR: You can.
PATIENT: But I'll - I think I need a - oh I think I have a (inaudible) sheet in here.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah. And I got a method of - I got a machine to do that. They want me send them one.
PATIENT: Are they missing one because they called me this morning?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: [Just wanted it back] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Take some of them. You - you're maybe (inaudible), right?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Alright. Well take those. And then here take these.
PATIENT: I already got three of those. No, I (inaudible). 
COUNSELOR: Okay. These guys?
PATIENT: Yeah. (Inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible) mother-in-law?
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. (laughs) Okay mom - she - you know they called us again yesterday. (Inaudible) He fell in the store. And you're supposed to come from Chicago to Texas because dad fell in the store. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Alright.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: See you in a week.
PATIENT: Thank you. Bye. 
END TRANSCRIPT
