TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: How about - (laughs.)
PATIENT: Are you thinking about that one time besides here?
COUNSELOR: This is good. This is great. Thank you.
Okay. And for you, thank you.
I would like to let you know, I'm going to be out the week of Christmas. So  - 
PATIENT: Okay. The week like after Christmas, you mean?
COUNSELOR: The week that Christmas falls in, so yeah, for us it would be the 20 - because isn't it on Tuesday?
PATIENT: I'm going away from the 24th to the 29th, if that  - 
COUNSELOR: Okay. That probably - well let me make a note for that. I think that's pretty close. 
How are you?
PATIENT: Great. Actually, I'm better. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah? What was going on, because you called me.
PATIENT: Yeah, it just - I just had a really like horrible - it was - the chess interview went so badly that like I think all of the like negative things I thought I had been dissolving, I really had just been putting in a little pen. And what happened that day just blew the door off. It was just like the Pandora's Box of all negativity, ugliness and suicidal depression just like came out in one day  - 
COUNSELOR: Wow. 0:01:45.8
PATIENT: - and stayed. (Laughs.) Because, you know, it was like horrible and one of my last hopes. And I don't know when we last talked, but like now I talked to Susan and I have my deadline and it's very soon. You know, the gig is up.
COUNSELOR: When is your deadline?
PATIENT: Well, March 1 at the latest, February 1 at the best.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know, so that just turned into like my parents are paying $400 to fly me home for four days for Christmas. You know, so these people are like, you know, taking out their meager retirement to fly me home. 
And I'm like, is it - should I just go home and stay then? Or is it rude of me to come back like, you know, living on a prayer for eight more weeks, you know. Call them at week six and be like, could you take another $1,000 out of your depleted retirement account to move me home now because I don't have a job or a place to live by next week. You know? It's like, do I do that? Is that wrong to take their money now, and then to take more of it seven weeks later? 
COUNSELOR: Are you asking me? 0:02:54.5
PATIENT: Huh-uh.
COUNSELOR: I think you already know how you feel about it.
PATIENT: I do, but I felt really, you know - well, I feel horrible about it. But so then, it just is strange because that week, in all its horror, felt very much like when I left Tucson. It was right before Christmas. I all of a sudden just decided, fuck this, I'm leaving. And I'd been kind of thinking about it for a long time, and later - like my friends were freaked out because all of a sudden I just went from, you know, living, working, to being like see you all, I'm leaving now. And I left right before Christmas and didn't come back. 
And I just realized, here we are again, two years later, no progress in my life, doing exactly the same thing - (laughs) - leaving a major city because of underemployment. You know.
COUNSELOR: And that's what it was in Tucson too?
PATIENT: Kind of - I mean it was different a little, but - I mean because I've had - I could have at least had the opportunity to be working more. I was just like so sick and burned out from it, you know, from like teaching art at six different schools and just running around, and all I did was shop for supplies, cut things up and then go. So actually, if I worked as much as people wanted me to work. 
So it's just like that seems to be the story of my life, you know, like working. So I was choosing to work less so that I wouldn't, you know, whatever - killing myself or be too miserable or whatever. So then there was misery upon misery - (laughs) - to use one misery or another.
So I just felt like trapped there, like that's what I could do there, you know. I lost my studio - There's just no reason to stay, you know. So this is a little bit different, but it feels very much the same. I'm sure partially because of the timing. 0:04:43.3
COUNSELOR: Yeah. How had you wanted it to be different this time, because you sound pretty mad that you see  - 
PATIENT: No, I just hope that in 14 months I would find a way to sustain myself and do what I - you know, what I want to do and a studio to do it in.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. If I can make there.
PATIENT: Yeah, and you know, people were like wait, if Tucson beat you down, why are you moving to New York? Which was a good question, like - (laughs) - I was just like I don't know, I guess if I'm going to be beaten down somewhere, I might as well be beaten down there.
COUNSELOR: How do you account for that? What - I mean, you say that part of you sees that as a reasonable question.
PATIENT: I'm sorry, which question?
COUNSELOR: If you left Tucson - I'm not going to say that I agree that Tucson beat you down, but  - 
PATIENT: Well, just because I think this is roundly considered like the most difficult city in the country to live in.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: But I - but also I think the most rewarding in a lot of ways, or at least the way I've always pictured it. And I always wanted to live here. 
And I was just like - like my choices were this and D.C. which I really didn't want. It would have been more manageable because it would have been less expensive, and it would have been closer to my parents if I needed whatever I needed. But I didn't really want that, and so I just - I just get tired of making choices that are all about not what I really want and just about, like, getting by. So it was just like a big risk to come here.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I guess, but I just sort of felt like thing were falling into place and were looking fortuitous, you know, at the time that I made the final decision to come here instead of D.C. was just because Susan called me up out of the blue and said hey, you still thinking about moving to Chicago? You want to come live with me? Well, duh.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I guess I just figured that things would - I guess because jobs have always just sort of come to me relatively easily before here, whether I wanted them or not like schools were calling me up in Tucson. Say, oh, I heard about you. Do you want to come teach here? 0:07:00.0
COUNSELOR: And it didn't play out.
PATIENT: Yeah, and yeah, in D.C. before that too, it was just like - yeah. Based on other jobs, people literally called me up and offered me jobs. I never had to seek them out.
COUNSELOR: Now what was that like to not have that happen here?
PATIENT: It sucked.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What did you start thinking about yourself, or about Chicago?
PATIENT: Well, I guess I thought what I already sort of expected and had been told, is that basically nothing happens here except through connections. I perhaps just thought about to whom I was connected before I came, you know, a bunch of like freelancers and students who - you know, and everyone did - no, the reason I worked at Breeze was I had a connection. And I guess I thought - I didn't think I was going to like walk in and have it be fun. I was prepared for a year - years of struggle as long as there was like some sort of incremental progress. 
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But I just keep - I get up, and I just get knocked back down. It's not, you know, when I first started at Breeze I just figured, well of course this will need to other things. I'm doing movie premieres. I'm doing what I love doing. This is great. It's not a lot of money now, but certainly it will lead somewhere. You know, and it didn't. And - you know? So I started whatever. I started temping and I was like oh, they're a very cool ad agency. I might be able to like this. And then, I just couldn't. 
You know, like, so it's been much harder than I expected without - I'm probably further behind now than I was when I came here as far as any progress being made. You know, it's more of a deficit so.
COUNSELOR: All right. What's it like to be talking to me about this right now?
PATIENT: Not good, because I feel yucky again. I got myself feeling good for a couple of days.
COUNSELOR: How did you do that? 0:08:59.9
PATIENT: I smoked pot. That always works.
COUNSELOR: And is that a pretty - you say it's reliable, that it always works. Is that something you make use of frequently?
PATIENT: No, unfortunately - (laughs) - but I guess I should. Because I literally was in - like I was, you know, whatever. The testing - I was just in a bad mood for four or five days, and really the last vestige of hope was that Hospice job, and like I'm online finding out that that really was just a miscommunication. That's not going to happen either.
And, you know, like Susan gave me - (inaudible 0:09:37.9) - you know, whatever. She was like, well. 
We never have pot around. We did for a while, and we just smoked all the time because we were just cracked up and had like the greatest time. So we quit having it around, it was like, well - (inaudible at 0:09:53.0) - you want some? I was like, yeah. 
We - literally, within - I might as well have been shooting it because within like less than a minute, I all of a sudden felt like this overwhelming sense of happiness and peace when I had been, you know, really miserable, like unbearably miserable and not sleeping for like a week. 
We had a great time. I slept through the whole night for the first time in a week, wake up, feel good and then, you know, I've been kind of okay for the last two or three days, much better. And then now talking about it all again, that's upsetting me.
COUNSELOR: Smoking more pot or just from that one time?
PATIENT: No, just from that one time.
COUNSELOR: Oh, my.
PATIENT: That's - I mean, that's a problem, really. I mean if there's ever a candidate for mental medical marijuana, it's me. Because I - it's happened lots of times in my life where I've either smoked pot or done - like I've never done any of it a lot. But like if I'm in a big funk and I do something, it just like loosens it up because I get like the bad things for me, it really is just like this stultifying like vice-grip on me, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And just like, I mean, between the two of us, we didn't even finish half the joint. I only had like two hits, and my life was back.
COUNSELOR: Boy. Now  - 
PATIENT: And it always works that way.
COUNSELOR: So last time you told me about sort of the transition from dreading going to a party to feeling at ease and comfortable and unselfconscious. And I wonder if you can slow that down with this, from feeling - because I was going to say - when you were saying, you know, that bad things get me in this horrible vice-grip. And I was going to say, what's that like? Then I realized well, I think she just  - 
PATIENT: (Laughs.) 
COUNSELOR: But can you say any more about that? Like it sounds to me like - I get the impression that you're trying and trying and trying to find a way out of it, and you just can't.
PATIENT: Yeah, well - and I think that's why the sort of like dissolving the problems rather than -working them out - but it felt like it was.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Now it's kind of working. Instead of trying to find the way out of the maze, I'm just kind of like  - 
COUNSELOR: Just yeah.
PATIENT: - make the maze go away or defuse or something, and that had sort of been working. This was  - 
COUNSELOR: How are you doing that? How - because you told me about it before this sort of dissolving the whole idea that there was a problem, but how exactly did you do that? 
PATIENT: I don't know, I just did that. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I was just like I can just choose to think this is not a problem.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Other than that, you know, whatever. It was nice to feel good for, what, three weeks or whatever, but I have real problems, and if I don't face them, I will be homeless in two months. So like I go back and forth, because it's like that attitude is certainly like freeing - (laughs) - for a little bit, but it doesn't really change anything.
COUNSELOR: All right, okay. So it makes you more comfortable, but it really doesn't  - 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - help you address anything.
PATIENT: Like I might as well be doing drugs. It makes you feel more comfortable for a while, but things are as bad or worse when you wake up.
COUNSELOR: So - but the pot sort of shook you up or gave you - what would you say? What would you say it was like? I mean, you said suddenly you had a sense of well being that you hadn't had before.
PATIENT: Really? I literally - I just felt happy. I like smiled for the first time in days. And then, you know, we just like sit around talking, laughing, for probably - this was 10 o'clock at night or whatever - for like a couple of hours. Then I just went to bed and slept through the whole night. 
So it was just - you know, it's not like a foreign feeling. I know that's when I have these. Especially if I haven't smoked for a pretty long time. The first time is just like this incredible rush.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And you said that you had in the past used also other ways of just shaking yourself up and getting yourself out of a bad kind of funk or bad mental - what are some of the other ways? 0:13:43.3
PATIENT: They're also drugs. I smoke pot. (Laughs.) There's ecstasy and mushrooms that hasn't  - 
COUNSELOR: Ecstasy. So - 
PATIENT: I never had a bad trip. That's the thing is all my experiences with drugs are good.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Like the idea of a bad trip is foreign to me, because it's always just good. I mean, I haven't done anything like heavy for like a long time. I've only done hallucinogenics basically. But - yeah, you know, like there were times maybe when I was like afraid - maybe three times. Like if I was in a funk, I'd take acid. That was like - a potentially scary one, right.
No, it would just like fix my life and I could go back and live it. (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Well. 
PATIENT: You know.
COUNSELOR: How do you account for this, that you've never had a bad trip and even when you were in a really bad funk you could take acid and you would feel happy? 0:14:34.1
PATIENT: I think because it just removes me from a little bit - from like the rut of my life or whatever. It's like the horrible way I'm not able to quit thinking about my life otherwise. Or just like it's kind of like bringing - it's always about bringing me back to a place of being able to see things for what they are, which is mostly beautiful. You know? Because of the circumstances of my life.
COUNSELOR: Without your trip, so to speak. 0:15:04.4
PATIENT: What? What was that?
COUNSELOR: Seeing things with your  - 
PATIENT: Oh, yes.
COUNSELOR: I'm beginning to sense - I'm getting the sense that when you get really stuck in a bad sort of spiral or funk or whatever word we might use you have a feeling that it's something that you're actively doing. Your mind is making, and you are not able to stop it making it. That's how it feels?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And so if you take drugs or something that shakes you up, and you stop making it and some fresh experience. And this habitual repetition of something flattens up or just stops. You can drop it, something like that.
Can you be anymore specific about what it is when you're going round and round in circles in this shitty stuff, like what - like this time was the interview. You said it was so terrible and it really blew. What was terrible and how did it make you feel?
PATIENT: Well, it's a good thing I can totally dissociate in the moment, because I was completely fine during the interview. Actually  - 
COUNSELOR: This is something that we've talked about when you said you could tell me things with a - okay, so, and you were doing that in the interview?
PATIENT: I got - well the interview itself went really well, and then there was that problem of playing chess. I think like we talked for an hour and a half, which I don't think was expected at all. And that was going really well. I mean, I wasn't comfortable. I never am. It's always like constantly, where should I be looking, eye contact, no eye contact, cross my legs, uncross my legs. So I was never there in the conversation, but I could tell I was performing well and he thought it was going well.
COUNSELOR: How did it feel like to not be there?
PATIENT: Just - it's kind of - it's hard to be that conscious of it. And that's the way I felt in my last interview, too, that like mattered anyway. But it went well. So I just wanted it to end. I was like, god, why is this going on so long? Because I get worried that I'm not going to be able to keep it up anymore.
COUNSELOR: Because I get the sense that it's just exhausting. It's just kind of like what you were describing last time when you went to the Thanksgiving dinner, it was so much mental effort. 0:17:05.7
PATIENT: Right. Well, then, I think that was part of the problem. By the time we got to the chess, it was kind of the way I described to you I couldn't play that word game at Thanksgiving because I was like this.
COUNSELOR: Oh, right, because you were trying to be the right  - 
PATIENT: Yeah, and so I was  - 
COUNSELOR: - say something wrong or do something wrong, and so you couldn't be spontaneous. 
PATIENT: Well I just couldn't think. I couldn't think out of the straight jacket just that I was in, you know. And then - so - and I've had - I should have been fine, but he tried to trick me. And I didn't expect to be tricked.
COUNSELOR: How?
PATIENT: So he did illegal moves that my job was to catch, but I just - you know, I'm thinking, oh, god, there must be something I don't know. He's a chess master. I'm a bonehead.
COUNSELOR: That's sort of outside the box. I'm going to do something illegal - (laughs.)
PATIENT: I know. He didn't say, like, "Okay, be ready for some wacky tricks." Because he seemed like this really nice guy. I really didn't expect that, but he just - he wanted me to say, you can't do that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and especially if you're trying to be Miss Perfect, you know, Miss Perfect is not allowed to say, hey, what the hell did you just do with your rook, you know? 
PATIENT: Yeah. So that was - then I was totally thrown off. And then it was just downhill from there.
But so now - and so what actually made it worse was that he wanted me to come back. He's like well, to be honest, I have a lot of real concerns about your chess playing, but otherwise, you're our ideal candidate, would you like to practice some more? Would you rather - would you like to spend 24 hours a day for another week and then come in and play for five of my colleagues? And I just like - I said yes, of course, because I was still in  - 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: - mode. And then I got out of there, and it just - it all crashed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I was just like - it's just, you know, do I want to put all this effort into something I really don't want to do anyway. It's just like a way to make, you know, it turns out it is not as much as I hope, but it's $25 an hour. You're eligible for health insurance after 20 hours. It would - you know, it's a better thing than anything else I've got going.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: But it also comes in like they're - it would start until mid-January when the next semester starts, while if I have until late February, that money is not going to like save me and get me into an apartment anyway. Do I put all this work into - you know, and so I was kind of deciding no. 
He wanted me to come up next week. So then I - you know, and so I really - I think I'd like to put it off another week. If that's not okay, you're in a hurry and you're really worried about my chess, then fine. I'll send you the - (inaudible at 0:19:37.3). I'll send back the material you gave me and  - 
COUNSELOR: He gave you stuff to start?
PATIENT: Yeah, I was studying in the waiting room. 
And he said, oh, no, waiting a week is fine. So now that I feel like  - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see, so two weeks.
PATIENT: Yeah. So I am - I just have to go through it because it's the only thing on my plate now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:19:59.6
PATIENT: Like there's been no other possibilities.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I just - to not do that would be actively giving up, and I couldn't even justify not going home for Christmas and staying. And I'm still - it's my like - my version of keeping up the fight, like just trying or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So I just have to prepare myself to like - just to not care. Because I like I don't want to go through another week - I'm about to cry, it is so awful. And if I go there and it's horrible and humiliating again, I'd - you know, just be.
COUNSELOR: It's very painful. And I know that this is the last thing that you want to hear me ask you, but can you say more about the whole humiliating?
PATIENT: Just, I don't know. I mean like I'm saying, this is the thing. I could dissociate at the time. I just try to be like, "Oh, ha, ha, ha." 
You know, but I just - when I laughed, it wasn't - I didn't even know the guy, so actually maybe that's not the right words to use. But it was just like that happening and what that meant. And just I put in all this time into this thing. 
This is what I do with my whole f***ing life, you know. And I think it was just like, oh, god. But I put all this work into it and it didn't work out.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: It was - you know, it was awful. And so it wasn't - but it wasn't so much the humiliating, it was more like the smile that started like  - 
COUNSELOR: Which was more like  - 
PATIENT: But really, within minutes, I'm like, well, I'm just going to have to grind away then always in the back of my mind there's this inevitability of being the only child in people parents that in another five to ten years I'll be just living at home with them wiping their asses anyway. You know, like - it's just like all of a sudden one little thing like that, I don't know what it was. But it just makes me want to go, okay, my while life is hopeless. Why bother. You know what I mean? 
If I do get something going career wise, then I have to go home and ass wipe for four years. You know, like what's the point? Because there really is no alternative. My parents don't have money, so they'd be in some - they're - not a lot of it. So it's me wiping their asses or some horrible state hospital wiping their asses. And my mom has told me she'll commit suicide before she lets that happen, so. 
COUNSELOR: So did she mean by that, because what I hear in that is so then you better plan on wiping my ass.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I think - yeah, I guess.
There was a time after she wiped my grandma's ass when my grandma finally died, my mom said I never want that to happen to you. Promise me that you'll put me in a home. Like she couldn't put her mother in a home. Like she felt responsible to like whatever.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:22:56.7
PATIENT: So she - but she made me promise that I would do that to her, so I wouldn't f*** my own life up.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And then a couple - two years ago, like I guess her own mortality is becoming more apparent to her. All of a sudden she retracted that statement and completely turned it around.
COUNSELOR: She - what did she say?
PATIENT: Told me not to put her in a home.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
Now - so that's the picture that you get, is four years of ass wiping. But what does that mean for you or for your future or for your chances?
PATIENT: That I don't have one. Like whatever is going on, I have to suspend for intensive ass wiping.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So, you know. Yeah, I could have a bunch of money and I could hire someone to do some of the ass wiping. 
But how am I ever - I mean, that's the thing. I just see this bleak vision where like, you know, we burn - we sell the - we just burn through all those last bits of money and after four years of ass wiping I'm left with no money, not even from the house, from like whatever. My parents die some horrendous death, and then I walk out of Phoenix at 46 with no career - (laughs) - and no money. You know.
COUNSELOR: So the $400 plane ticket is part of this downward path.
PATIENT: Probably. Well, yeah, because when I said what days I was going to come home, you heard - I could just feel my mom stiffen. She was like, oh. I know she doesn't think that - whatever, four days isn't enough for her. They never see me and I'm flying across the country, and it's of course because of my cat why I can't be gone for longer than that. Because my work is closed all that - I mean I don't have any opportunity to earn any money for 10 days, so I think - so that's another thing lingering over my head, like, you know. I don't even know if I'll be able to have my two packets of Raman a day come January because of that. 0:25:02.7
COUNSELOR: And Susan can't take care of the cat.
PATIENT: Well, she is for a few - like, we're just trading off.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like she's going to go home kind of before Christmas - through Christmas. I'm going to leave on the 24th, and then she'll - like last year, I had to fly back on Christmas day. So we're kind of doing it the other way around this time where I take the post-Christmas and she takes the pre-Christmas. 
COUNSELOR: Oh my.
PATIENT: Because, you know, there's two cats.
COUNSELOR: Oh, she has a cat.
PATIENT: Yeah. I couldn't really expect her to - you know, and this - I'm worried because she has a low-maintenance cat (inaudible) eating for a few days, and I have to count on her to come back on Christmas day. I don't know if she will, you know. So I'll be worried about Curtis being sick anyway if she doesn't come back.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I can just see her being like, oh, if I go back really early the next morning, that'll be okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: At which point they will be alone for like 60 hours or something.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:25:59.1)
PATIENT: Need you ask? Like totally nervous. I've got to worry - I'm sure I won't even be able to enjoy Christmas because I'll be calling every five minutes to see if she's back to feed my cat or if he needs to be rushed to emergency, which I probably couldn't even count on her to do.
When he was just like throwing up for days or can't keep any food down, she's like, "well, why don't you just wait and see." You know. (Laughs) You know, you pull up the hair and it just sticks, you know. Whatever. 
 She just doesn't - she doesn't get it. She's watched him be hospitalized three times, so - at great expense that I can't even do now because I don't have a f***ing credit card.
COUNSELOR: Right. Now you were talking about wiping asses, and is your cat a little bit similar situation of a high-maintenance, high-love, highly active thing and you can't rely on her to do for you what you would probably do for her cat.
PATIENT: Oh, absolutely. Yeah. That's totally true.
COUNSELOR: And so you're - you are already thinking that this is going to spoil your Christmas, or might. And the way you're looking at it right now  - 
PATIENT: Yeah. I really have to - I'm going to have to try to just not think about it.
COUNSELOR: You think you'll be able to do that?
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You first of all, you cried, which is something that you have a lot of feelings about the prospect of doing when I talked to you in the past. How did that sit with you?
PATIENT: Well, it wasn't as bad as I thought, but - (laughs) - mostly because I got it under control reasonably quickly.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it was a very controlled kind of cry. How did you get it under control?
PATIENT: I don't know. I had three-quarters of me working on that one. You were trying to put this in - (inaudible at 0:27:52.1) - by saying, "How does humiliation feel for you." 
So I just tried to answer your question while I kind of package it back up, I guess. 
COUNSELOR: So it was a little bit like the interview.
PATIENT: Yeah, like - (inaudible at 0:28:08.5).
COUNSELOR: Working really hard. Well let me not say, how is your life like the interview?
PATIENT: Well, everyone's life is. I just think - as I was saying last time I think that what makes mine worse is that I'm so conscious of the - of being conscious.
COUNSELOR: Okay, the effort.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Almost like everybody's got their gears spinning, but you can actually perceive that, at least sometimes.
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe it's like I'm worse - I assume. I don't know what everyone else is going through. I assume I have more spinning, and I have the conscious over their spinning.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, than other people.
And you told me last time that you wish you didn't have so much. What would be the bad thing that might happen in here with me that if you didn't get that crying under control right away.
PATIENT: I don't know, to tell you the truth, there was the quick scan, no tissues, oops, what's going to happen. I can't - don't, look for tissue.
COUNSELOR: I was mentally  - 
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: - myself. So did you feel like your tears were not welcomed in advance? The red carpet of tissue wasn't rolled out for that?
PATIENT: No, I mean I didn't - no. I just - it was a very practical consideration whether I can, you know, just start wiping on my jacket. I don't know. I mean, I didn't want to be anyway, so it was just another more practical reason to  - 
COUNSELOR: To stop crying rather than have this inconvenient water line.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Anything else?
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Well, I just - I mostly didn't want to do it. If I really wanted to do it, I guess I would have just kept going like this or something.
COUNSELOR: Didn't want to do it because  - 
PATIENT: I don't know. Because who knows how long - if I really let go, maybe I would not get it back under control at all, and we wouldn't have any time to talk about anything.
COUNSELOR: You just  - 
PATIENT: And you would just sit there and I would be on camera for 30 minutes or whatever until it was over.
COUNSELOR: Would it less bad if it were not on camera?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: (Laughs.) I don't know. Do you want a - I know it's not a public record, you've corrected me, but relatively, some people will see this outside of this room, so a non-private record  - 
COUNSELOR: Yes, non-private.
PATIENT: - in perpetuity of my bawling.
COUNSELOR: And what will they think? 0:30:39.8
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know.
Say something, because I really want to leave.
COUNSELOR: You want to leave right now?
Is there something that I can do to make this less awful for you?
PATIENT: Not that I can think of. 0:31:45.6
COUNSELOR: I feel like you're holding on as hard as you can. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but it's kind of like restorative crying because it's not getting better and it's not getting worse. Like I can control it, but I'm not (inaudible 0:32:41.2) either.
COUNSELOR: What would I think of you if you did?
PATIENT: I don't know. I can't really think right now.
COUNSELOR: I'm trying not to look at you because I don't want you to feel  - 
PATIENT: What would be - (laughs.) Then look at me later if you don't want to look at me now.
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) You're entertaining me. 
PATIENT: I think I can do this - it's better if I can talk without you  - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear you properly. You said say something because I want to leave now.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Before I just left here to wallow.
COUNSELOR: Wallowing - you would just sink into it and never get up again. Is that it?
PATIENT: Maybe. (Inaudible at 0:33:47.9) - be like, - we need this room, you need to get out of here now.
COUNSELOR: I'd kick you out.
PATIENT: Well, eventually.
I told you before the whole thing about losing it in therapy is that it is such an unmatchable setting. We're in this clinical room, you know, you sitting there, the camera on me. It will end in, you know, x number of minutes regardless of what happened. There's not a place where like one feels, you know, like safe enough to  - 
COUNSELOR: You talked before about how with some of your friends, you're able to feel safe enough for each other to do this kind of thing, just letting yourself cry or fall apart. And one thing that came up for you when you told me about it earlier was the thought that in that kind of a situation you would be able to hug each other and be able to support each other in that way. Would I be able to do that, would I be willing to do that, would I pretend it, you know. The answer was, sorry I can't do that
PATIENT: What was your question? 
COUNSELOR: What's the difference? You said this is an artificial situation, an inhospitable situation that's not - (inaudible at 0:35:06.3).
PATIENT: I don't know. It is inhospitable to that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I wonder - you know, I could easily be wrong. I wonder if you wonder if I really care.
PATIENT: No, I think you do. I'm was sure that you have to care about all of your patients, but in a very limited and somewhat artificial way. Not that - like I think this is probably authentic care, but that it has to be very bounded. So in some ways that - there is - there's also something, you know, authentic about it or at least very bounded about it. 0:36:04.7
COUNSELOR: I'm not quite sure what bounded means. Like  - 
PATIENT: If you were to - you couldn't go around like really deeply caring about all your patients, I don't think. You would - at least I'm just projecting from my experience of really caring about someone or something and thinking about them and worrying about them. 
If you took really caring for someone times I don't know how many patients you have - (laughs.) But I just - I assume that's not practical and probably out of your professional training about how to empathize without being sucked into the - you know, how to - I don't know empathize in a professional unbounded manner to protect your own self as you go.
COUNSELOR: To not get hurt.
PATIENT: Yeah. So in a way you wouldn't get hurt, but.
COUNSELOR: If I got sucked in by all my patients because I really cared about them, what would that be like for me? 0:37:08.3
PATIENT: I would just assume that you would - if you - it would just be a lot of worry. I don't think that - well I guess they could hurt you by like killing themselves or not coming back or whatever. I don't know. 
I just feel like it would be overwhelming to feel that deeply for that many people if you couldn't, you know, leave it in the room or really just start intellectualizing it. I do believe that you're very empathetic in the setting and in the moment, but I just feel like it couldn't be healthy for you if you had to carry that times 10, having to day and night.
COUNSELOR: What would it be like? It'd be overwhelming? I'd get overwhelmed?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I just - when I was teaching and I found out, like, a whole class was in and just found out how horrible some of these kids lives were, I just went - I could dissociate the way I do to, and that was just like some kids I was teaching, not people who I knew, you know, relatively intimately. 
So I think that just sort of extrapolating from that experience, how that experience was for me, I guess I'd just assume that, you know.
COUNSELOR: That I'd have to put a limit on it or climb up out of it probably by getting intellectual as soon as you're gone.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Is that true?
COUNSELOR: You would like to know if  - 
PATIENT: Well, I think I do know just by your smile.
COUNSELOR: What? 
PATIENT: Right there. You were like no, no, no. (Inaudible at 0:38:58.4) which means by which you stay fully connected to everyone all the time. I would believe that to, but when you have nothing to say - (laughs) - it made me feel like my supposition was correct.
COUNSELOR: So silence is guilt.
PATIENT: When I ask a direct question, yeah. It's not really guilt. It's not like I fault you for it. I think - what I'm saying is it's what you have to do to maintain your own sanity.
COUNSELOR: Well, I - it's - I acknowledge that this is a very difficult question. I could try and wrestle this articulating my dilemmas with you, but I don't know how useful it would be to you. And that's open to discussion. 0:39:47.5
PATIENT: Well, it's just like if you're asking - if you're trying to, you know, I don't know if this is the right word, but cajole more intimacy in letting go for me, I tell you what the limits of my willingness to do that are based upon  - 
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: - unless you tell me something different, or why that's not valid for me to think that, then I'm going to think that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I feel like this moving away from a fear of being overwhelmed by feelings by getting involved with ideas and intellectual things is something that we have done in this conversation in the past 15 minutes. I actually don't really do that in life. I mean, with my work that I do here. 0:40:55.3
PATIENT: How don't you? Isn't it your job to walk out, think about what happened, think about a treatment plan, think about - or do you really not do any of that and you just come in here and like flow free because like - no, because you use tapes you - you're learning how to do this better. How do you not think about it outside of the room? How do you not think about how it could go better and how you could treat my  - 
COUNSELOR: I do think about it. 
PATIENT: Okay, that's intellectualizing it.
COUNSELOR: Not all thinking is intellectual. Not all thinking is cerebral and proposition. There's also feeling about it.
PATIENT: Okay, well, I'm just thinking of maybe you're in a totally different - I obviously don't know what your end of the study is, but when I have to like fill out endless, boring circle number six or seven forms, talk about it's so quantifying it all. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I guess it surprises me that you're just allowed to go out and feel and that you don't have to report to your supervisors with something very concrete.
COUNSELOR: I have to do forms like that too. And it's rather odd. I mean, maybe you feel odd in a similar way where you muck around in feelings, and sometimes they're very inchoate or mysterious or scary, then have go and produce some numbers. What's that like? 0:42:17.3
PATIENT: Well, it's - I mean, what I really think it is - it's not so much what it is for me because it doesn't take me very long if I do it right away. But I just feel like it's a waste of time for whoever is getting paid a bunch of money to sit around and crunch these numbers because you know. 
Maybe it would be different if I spent a lot of time on it, but then it might not be accurate in a whole different way. I mean, I just think that that's a big heap of bullshit. But like you need to - I guess they think they need to keep that kind of track of it. It's just like - it just seems ridiculous to me.
COUNSELOR: It has to do with somebody else's needs and not yours. 0:43:05.3
PATIENT: Well, I - I mean, I don't mind that because there - if I'm getting to do this this inexpensively, it's clearly a give and take. And I know that I'm here to give something as well to psychological research, but I just don't think that that method is very effective.
COUNSELOR: You resent it?
PATIENT: I don't resent it very deeply because it takes - what I resent actually is that you know maybe like someone - those numbers will end up in the New England Journal of Medicine, and I'll be able to just go, oh my god, what a bunch of crap. But then it makes me think about what other bunches of crap are out there that are supposedly scientific studies. Like, I just feel like it's a huge waste of probably a lot of people's time and money.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, including yours.
PATIENT: Yeah, well it's my five minutes. It's not that bad.
COUNSELOR: But, this treatment as a whole is not your five minutes. Do you have other doubts about the treatment that you're getting and the work that we do here in general?
PATIENT: I have doubts about my life being different when it's over.
COUNSELOR: Which is what you asked me for when you first came.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's not - it's what was promised me and what - (inaudible at 0:44:19.3) choice basically.
COUNSELOR: What did it say?
PATIENT: Oh my god. I don't know, like - it really was like telling me - it was just like, you know, do you have the same problems at work, in love? Would you like to fix that up? You know, with 30 sessions? Really, it's like that.
COUNSELOR: And what would it be like if you could.
PATIENT: Well, I was - (laughs) - it would be great, and I - that was the hope. I was like, well, these aren't snake oil salesmen, but it's Beth Israel Hospital. It must be good. So, you know, and it still it is good. I'm not maybe sorry I did it when my life isn't fixed in 30 sessions, but it's clearly not going to be. And you must realize that by now. 0:45:04.5
COUNSELOR: So you feel like this treatment is going to feel, and I already know that.
PATIENT: No, it's not - I don't think that it's - I think that it's going to fail under the original terms. But I think it's good in that - the way I was just describing, like even if after a year of struggling had a little bit of progress to show for it, that'd be good. I just kind of feel like I'm too much to fix up in 30 sessions. But I think - it doesn't mean I don't think it's helpful, and I won't consider it a failure.
COUNSELOR: How many sessions would it take to fix you up?
PATIENT: I have no idea, but it's not that many.
COUNSELOR: If we were on track toward fixing you up, what kind of things would we be doing here?
PATIENT: I have no idea. I mean, we're doing this kind of therapy so I guess we'd be doing the same things, but I don't know. I would be realizing how what happens in here relates to the rest of my life, and this consciousness would bring about change and - 0:46:07.8
COUNSELOR: You told me that you assumed that the way that I - you had some really intense feelings come up for you, and you struggled very hard against them in this session. And you told me that part of the reason for that was that you were afraid of being overwhelmed by them, and that the session would end and I would walk away from you I guess. I would say, come on, get out, move along, that session's done now. I'll see you in a week. Right?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I would get on a train and go to horrible work where I can't afford to be falling apart in front of children.
COUNSELOR: Right. So I would have - rather than fixing you up, I would have been unfixing you and then dumping you.
PATIENT: I don't know. That's a very provocative  - 
COUNSELOR: That's too harsh?
PATIENT: Well, yeah, because it's kind of mean if you think I actually think that. I'm not thinking Evan is going to dump me. You know, it's like - I feel like when I make - when I express my concerns about what therapy is, you kind of personalize it and think that I'm - I just know how it has to be. I don't  - 
COUNSELOR: It has to be because  - 
PATIENT: - because there are 50 minutes in a therapy session.
COUNSELOR: This artificial limiting structure thing full of boundaries and prohibitions.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And then you asked me, do you do this, Evan. When I go out of the room, do I become - do you pull back your - whatever feelings you had during the session and just relate to ideas. Is that an accurate - I'm not saying literal, but like is that kind of  - 
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm not - I wasn't implying that the minute the door shut  - 
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: - you were like on the telephone making dinner plans, but and then just, you know. But yeah, I mean, I assume you're always a little late to my session because you have one before me. I don't know. And so you must have to just switch gears a lot and in the end go to your supervisors with, you know, a treatment plan, something. 
So yeah, I do think that you feel in here and then you have to go turn that in or shape it into something else, and you have to be able to turn it off and on almost at will.
COUNSELOR: Partly to keep myself safe.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 0:48:40.9
COUNSELOR: And you really wanted to know if I did this or not, and you imply - and I want to understand if that's what you meant - I will - I, Lynn, will not make myself vulnerable if you're not making yourself vulnerable.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, but I don't really mean it that way. Well, I guess I do. Our stakes and our levels of vulnerability are completely different. You know what I mean? Like, you're not about to cry. You're not the one - I don't know anything about you, you know what I mean? Like why - I understand how you can like just how just feeling with someone can make you vulnerable, but that - it's completely different.
COUNSELOR: When you - when - now, I'm struggling with my feelings. 0:50:12.5
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: And  - 
PATIENT: I was just sitting here thinking you were trying to cry.
COUNSELOR: Why would I do that?
PATIENT: To make me - to invalidate what I just said about how you were about to cry.
COUNSELOR: I was actually trying not to cry, and what I was trying to do is tell you that earlier in the session when you said that you wanted to leave, it was very moving to me and kind of shocking. And I almost did cry then.
PATIENT: Well, I've done that before in therapy when I've almost cried. I just get up and leave.
COUNSELOR: Really? Why didn't you?
PATIENT: To tell you the truth - (laughs) - it's because it would have to be - I would love to say that it was just something nice like about how I just felt safe and I wanted to do that, but it was more like I'm in this study. I have to do this. When I'm paying my own money, I can get up and walk out whenever I want and do whatever I want.
COUNSELOR: So you don't have the freedom here? You have to be a good subject.
PATIENT: Yeah. I do feel like - I mean I think it's only fair. I agreed  - 
COUNSELOR: You have to comply. You owe me something.
PATIENT: I don't think we, you tune into you, it really is more like this whole thing, this whole thing  - 
COUNSELOR: This whole thing  - 
PATIENT: - this study, this hospital  - 
COUNSELOR: - this whole shebang. The hospital, the whole building is part of it. The microphone on the floor is part of it. The video camera  - 
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I would love - if I had a bunch of money, I would still see you. I would just see you, you know, if that were the possibility, but in a different setting where, you know, where I wasn't being observed and I didn't have to circle numbers and  - 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what would be - what would - the main things that would be different are you wouldn't have to be - no camera, no sense of a supervisor looming over my shoulder, no questionnaires to fill out, and maybe I would bring you coffee. You said that before.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Yeah. (Inaudible 0:52:25.1) the coffee is totally true.
COUNSELOR: Very nice, sort of Danish, modern  - 
PATIENT: It doesn't have to be, but yeah. I mean, you know, I said before, I understand that that's all part of the process. And it's still worth it to me knowing that.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel - you told me last time that you - there was no particular - that I in particular don't - you don't have the same self-consciousness with me that you have with other people. But I sometimes feel like you are working very hard to be the right kind of patient, either for - is it either for this study or for me?
PATIENT: I don't know what you mean by that, because I don't think - I don't know what the right kind of patient subject is or I probably would try. But since I don't know, I don't.
COUNSELOR: Well, like you said, tell me how to do this right because I want to do this right, and I'm just asking you, I could have just looked on the Internet and tried it out all by myself. 
PATIENT: Oh, well that stuff was more just about facilitating the process, which was purely selfish. That was when I thought in three weeks we could get this done, and what could I do to help that along.
COUNSELOR: Speed it up. 0:53:47.1
PATIENT: I know you don't want to say it because it'll sound really bad. 
COUNSELOR: Huh?
PATIENT: Speed it up.
COUNSELOR: No, I'm - do you have to go right now?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: We started a little late.
Can you wait for five more minutes?
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Well we had some strong feelings in this session. And I feel like, sometimes I felt like - a little bit like we were wrestling with each other. Sometimes I wondered if you felt like I was trying to force you into having some kind of emotional experience in front of me. Did you feel like that?
PATIENT: No. You weren't trying to force me. You were trying to let me.
COUNSELOR: Trick you?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Push you?
PATIENT: This is what we wrestle over! You're trying to pretend I think you're bad.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Do you not think that I am bad? 
PATIENT: No. I do not think that you are bad. I never - I never circled the number for tricky on the form.
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) 
PATIENT: That's one of the things. Do you think your therapist is tricky? No, you're never tricky. 0:55:04.8
COUNSELOR: Okay. Boy, I feel a little lost right now. You think - I don't know, maybe I was. I don't know, maybe I was trying to push you into something prefabricated, which would not be what I would want to try to do.
PATIENT: I don't think that's true, although that's something I've seen about therapists is that they do think it's some kind of triumph if someone who's not ready to cry cries with them. So in my history both with you and with other people, I'm going out of here like this because I (inaudible). And I don't think you were trying to force me, I think you were trying to let me. 
But you - whatever, you should probably feel good that I cried. (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Do you want to know?
PATIENT: No, I wasn't questioning. Do you want to tell me something?
COUNSELOR: Well, it's neutral. But it's - I'm glad that you told me that you kind of felt while it was happening that maybe I was going to  - 
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: - a little bit.
PATIENT: See, you make it worse again.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I - am I always pulling for the negative fantasy  - 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - that you have about me?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Should I just quit? 0:56:15.1
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Would we save a lot of time?
PATIENT: Yeah. (Laughs.) 
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) All right. I wondered what it was like for you - I wondered if part of you - I felt like part of you was ashamed.
PATIENT: Yeah. I couldn't say why, but I do.
COUNSELOR: I felt like maybe a little part of you was relieved, because to come in - you know Chekov said if there's a gun on the table in act one it has to go off in act three. You came in and said I never cry in front of therapists, and if I do cry in front of you, it'll either be a big achievement or it'll be because you've completely broken me down.
PATIENT: Did I say that? 0:57:01.8
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) 
COUNSELOR: So the gun was kind of on the table. And I'm not going to say that it's fired yet. Or I mean - yet it sounds like life has a three act structure, which it doesn't. But it told me that for probably layers of reasons, the issue of crying in front of a therapist was a complicated one for you, probably because there's all these structures of suppositions like crying in front of your therapist is good. 
It's an achievement to let your feelings out, but also you've told me I don't want to feel certain things. I don't want to sink in to certain things. I don't - I'm afraid of going all the way into certain things because I think I will just like fall off and never come back.
PATIENT: I think - what I think about it, I do want to let myself feel in the big picture. There's just not a lot of appropriate times and places. 
And what my crying here today made me realize is even more than I thought how bad last week was for me, how scared because I didn't - I didn't cry at all last week. I didn't have - like I don't want to freak Susan out, but like so much of my pressure now is about my having to move out. Which I knew, if she's going to start her practice, I mean, you know, it's not - but I don't want her - like I know how badly she's going to feel if I end up having to leave Chicago over this, or if I'm sitting around bawling about it. So I am trying to protect her from that. 
I don't want my parents - I don't want anyone to know how bad it is basically. So I didn't cry with anyone else, and I didn't really cry with myself except that I really felt like I couldn't - I just had - I did feel this week that I could just be okay I guess. I broke down.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I really felt like I was heading toward like a serious meltdown and I couldn't let go of things at all. 0:59:07.9
COUNSELOR: And you felt like this information is very toxic to anybody that might see how bad it is for you, see how much you're hurting.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. Partly for them too, though. And partly - I guess I don't want it. I want it to seem like a choice or like well, I tried. You know what I mean? 
If I don't - I don't want like after two months of like crying, wailing and gnashing of teeth and making everyone uncomfortable and feeling bad for me and feeling my pain then I slither off defeated, you know. So I'm just - my game face is a lot more just like, yeah, well, we'll see. And that's clearly not my real face at all.
COUNSELOR: If your real face could say something, what would it be?
PATIENT: I don't know. (Inaudible) - to scream tell me how it looks. But that's - (laughs) - I mean really, like, you know, I don't know. I guess as bad as it could be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 1:00:23.0
PATIENT: Time's up.
COUNSELOR: Well, almost, but I wanted to say - (laughs.) 
Well, I feel somehow like there's loose ends or like there's things I should be checking in with you about. Or basically, what can I learn for the future to make this better for Jessica. I feel a push to gather that information before we stop.
PATIENT: I don't know. If I knew - (laughs). If I knew what anyone could do, I'd tell them.
COUNSELOR: I guess what I meant is that - part of what I meant was the way that we work together. But it sounds like you got pretty annoyed when you kept - (inaudible 1:01:19.9) - well don't you think I'm happy because of this.
PATIENT: Well, I do - I don't know why you do that. But I feel like I'm trying to reassure you numerous times that those things that they're not based in reality. 
(Inaudible) - some tissue next time. This is going to be my only breakdown space for the two months before I leave, maybe I'll start to think an end of it.
COUNSELOR: So it might be okay to do that.
PATIENT: I mean, I don't want to because I really do think - well unless that - unless that's the point of the therapy. But like, I know like you think, if I sit around crying we won't talk. 
COUNSELOR: And talking is where the action is.
PATIENT: That's what I feel like. Yeah, but maybe what we're supposed to be doing here, which is feeling. Maybe I should just be feeling. But that doesn't - (laughs) - then I just walk out going god, I just traveled an hour and a half, then I just cried and I went to work. You know. 1:02:24.0
COUNSELOR: How quick is the transition from here to work?
PATIENT: Well, it's a little bit longer. I was actually going to ask you. I was thinking an earlier time is better, just because I didn't have to rush to work. But now it's just awkward. Like, I just have two hours to kill and no money to spend. So not two hours, because I can't get there really. So yeah.
COUNSELOR: So you would rather be a little later?
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess. I don't know if you can do that. I guess even 11:30 would be good, because I get out at 12:30. I have to be there at 1:30, so I can take - I can always get right on the subway because I always go for a little walk. 1:03:01.9
COUNSELOR: Well, that was one of the things I was going to say, what could you do to make yourself have some time to let things come and go, or.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I always do that. When we go at 12, that's when it's a real push. But like 11:30 gives me time to take like a leisurely walk and get something to eat before I go. The 10:30 just leaves me with too much time.
COUNSELOR: The ideal time would be what?
PATIENT: 11:30. But, I mean, this is certainly workable. I can go to the bookstore.
I don't know if this makes any difference, but it can also be Tuesday. Well, it could be any day actually.
COUNSELOR: Well, in past we were seeing each other on Tuesdays at  - 
PATIENT: 11 - well, was it 11:30? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay, let me tell you. From noon to 1 on Tuesdays, I can do except for the first week of every month.
PATIENT: Right, let's not go noon. Noon is the one that has me rushing to work. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you at 11:30 is ideal for you?
PATIENT: Yeah. The 10:30 is preferable to noon.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Wednesdays - (inaudible) back to Thursday. I'm afraid this is it.
PATIENT: Okay, that's fine.
COUNSELOR: Well anyway, let me - let me go through one more time.
Wait so noon - 11:30 was the best time. 
PATIENT: Or 11. I mean any - noon is too late, 10:30 is too early. So anything in the middle would be more just right. 1:04:48.9
COUNSELOR: Monday is out. Tuesday's out. Wednesday's out, and Friday's out.
PATIENT: Okay, this is fine.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Museums, galleries? Well - (laughs.)
PATIENT: Okay. See you next week.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Thank you very much. (Inaudible.) 
Thank you, I'll see you next week.
END TRANSCRIPT
