Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Before we get started, I have some conflicts I want to make sure we talk about.
THERAPIST: Sure. If you can't talk about your conflicts in therapy, where can you talk about them? (thumping noise) Sorry, my apologies.
CLIENT: That's okay. That's perfectly okay. Okay, so this is May. I know that absolutely that May 17th I'm going to be in the city all day. Normally I have a morning appointment. Can we reschedule that one?
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Let's see.
CLIENT: It may have to be cancelled rather than rescheduled, we'll see.
THERAPIST: I could meet at 2:40 on the Wednesday. Is that any good?
CLIENT: Hold on for just a second. Okay, let's tentatively do that. And that's the 17th, right?
[01:06.1]
THERAPIST: That's the 17th.
CLIENT: (pause) Okay. (pause) That's the 16th right? Because we're moving it from the 17th to the 16th. Okay, great, done. I think at the moment everything else will not be conflicting through May, but we'll see. (pause) I got roped into teaching a — what's it called — a field trip on Thursday too.
[02:19.5]
THERAPIST: What's that?
CLIENT: It's a bunch of kids that are going to be coming to visit our store to learn how to do computer animation. Unfortunately, what's really annoying is the teacher is very vague. She can't give me a list of the names of the students, and she can't guarantee me how long they'll be there. I know sometime after 3:00 they'll show up. Sometime before 5:00 they will leave, maybe. They may not show up until 4:30, so it's kind of, yeah. Computer animation for 10-year-olds is kind of a tall order.
THERAPIST: Oh, they're 10?
CLIENT: Yeah. So teaching them — I've worked out some things with my partner on how to, what we can do to show them high-end stuff that 10-year-olds should understand, I think. I don't know.
[03:14.4]
I'm a little stressed out about this one. Normally they're fine. They just sort of (inaudible at 00:03:20) themselves, but this is a little bit more. It's also nice to know I have a head count so that you know how many seats to put out, to count heads to make sure no one has wandered off, you know. Not having any of that stuff is kind of stressful. Yeah, May is really becoming quite busy for me all of a sudden. My father-in-law and his wife are coming to visit us over Mother's Day. It's kind of a stressful thing. But they're only going to be in town for like 36 hours.
THERAPIST: So it's stressful but not that long.
[04:10.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. But at the same time, there's the pressure of making sure that period of time is as enjoyable as possible, I guess. It's just kind of hard. They've already sort of not taken our advice on certain things, and that's going to be kind of problematic. They're from Kentucky and they refuse to not rent a car and to stay in the area. (pause) We told them we could just get them a car when they need it, this and that.
THERAPIST: Are they just coming to visit you?
CLIENT: Well, it's both. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So they're flying here but just for 36 hours?
[05:08.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what they do. They always are like this. Like they'll show up on Saturday morning and probably leave really really early on Monday morning. So I guess it's not really 36 hours, but it's something very small. Something where they have to leave in what I would consider, and I get up early, in the middle of the night to get to the airport. Because I think they have a five a.m. flight. So to just schlep everything back to the airport, might as well be leaving at one or two in the morning, you know. Not really, but sort of, yeah. So that's kind of — if they come at all, it's almost always very brief. When his brother came to visit us, he was here for like 19 hours.
[06:03.5]
I don't believe — although they were really horrified at the cost of hotel rooms — I don't think it's that because they're paying to stay overnight on the Sunday night where they probably wouldn't bother otherwise. So I don't think it's really that. I don't know. Honestly, at this point I don't even feel like giving them any advice. They can do things their own way. (pause) So that's been pretty much that. And, you know, I've been having some health problems which has not been so great.
THERAPIST: What's been going on?
CLIENT: I'm having a lot of chronic pain along with some new — I've been having muscle cramping for a while now. I was sort of ignoring — well, not ignoring it but taking supplements and hoping it will go away. And it does appear that this may very well be signs of something they had sort of suspected all along, and I don't want to go to the doctor about it. And I especially don't feel like being tested for it.
[07:07.7]
MS goes hand-in-hand with all the rest of these diseases. And since I've always had some neurological weirdness, especially with being spacey and just having a lot of pins and needles feelings, they told me that they'd probably have to keep an eye on it for the rest of my life. That's the autoimmune of the base of the brain and the spinal cord.
THERAPIST: Do you think that you like —
CLIENT: I run the risk of developing MS, yes.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because all of these autoimmune diseases, they tend to — sometimes your body just all of a sudden decides it's going to attack something else. And unfortunately —
THERAPIST: Is it in your joints?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's in my joints. Although occasionally it's in my skin, occasionally it's my organs, and whatever. So they sort of prepared me very early on that there's a very good chance it could end up this way.
[08:09.7]
The only definitive way to do it is a spinal tap. And I put up with so much crap from the medical community, I am not getting a spinal tap unless I can't move my legs. I'm really sorry, but I feel like sometimes it's like a dare to see what they can get me to do. I'll get the MRI, I'll do whatever, but I am not letting them tap my spine.
THERAPIST: I think I've heard that's an incredibly painful procedure. Is that why you don't want to do it?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's also that infection is a big risk. I mean, I've had things inserted in my spine before. I've had — they used the word "epidural" but it's not the same thing you have when you have a baby. They inject steroids into that area to make the swelling go down. And that was really bad. I've had about six of those, I think. Either five or six.
[09:03.7]
They only do three. The reason I know it's about that is that I do three a year, and I had two before I came here. I had two rounds of it, so it's either five or six of them. I wasn't a big fan of that, and this is apparently a lot more painful. And I already — the first couple of times I had the dye injection, I pretty much had it so bad that they had to more or less give me Valium. They called in a prescription for three Valium or two Valium, or something like that, make me take it before I get in there so I can be so out of it that I couldn't fight the — you know. Because I was having a lot of involuntary twitching. I mean, I was nervous as all get-out, more than the average person because I guess other people don't have problems with needles being stuck into their spine.
[09:54.8]
At this point, honestly, unless I wake up and I can't move my leg, I will not let them do it. I'm just really frustrated because I do not — most of the time when people have small symptoms of things, it's really not that big of a deal. But it seems like for me, it always ends up being a big deal. It's supposed to be like "You should be drinking more milk. You should be taking this calcium supplement." So I've been taking the calcium supplements although, you know, that's not working at all. I'm having points where things are getting spastic and I'm having muscles — all my joints go in the wrong direction. So if I get a certain type of muscle cramps, I can have it spasming in the wrong direction and can't do a damn thing. Not only does it creep out the people I work with, it's also really bad for the joints to be doing that.
[11:00.0]
So we'll see. I'm just — I don't know. At this point, I'm actually kind of hoping that I can find my own rheumatologist or find a rheumatologist who will just say "We'll give you infusions of interferon and if it works, great. If not, then don't" — you know, someone who will actually see if the treatment works, not actually having to bother with the test first. I don't know if that's going to work or not. Because spinal taps are expensive, maybe the world has changed enough that they will just do that. Not that interferon is cheap, not that I really want to get an IV of something every week.
THERAPIST: How bad are the side effects from interferon? That good, huh?
[11:50.9]
CLIENT: Well, a lot of them are the same thing as the chemotherapy stuff and the Enbrel, but there's also some other ones that are pretty bad. I mean, all of them are shutting off some part of your immune system. The stuff I take now is basically the same shutting down the immune system to recognize cancer on certain levels. Like it's interleukin, interferon stuff. They have a whole bunch of different ones. Luckily the interferon they give for Hepatitis C is a lot worse than the ones they give you for MS. I don't know if that's luckily or not, I don't know, but I don't have that. But it's supposedly really really bad at first, but then it gets better.
The number one reason why they give it to you intravenous instead of just letting you inject yourself like Enbrel does, is because the fact that they know there are a lot of problems. And I think the concept is that while you're getting the transfusion, I think they can get the early warning signs. Basically they can head that off if they need to. That's my understanding.
[13:10.0]
THERAPIST: So it's a way of like being able to observe you for a while when you're first getting it.
CLIENT: Yeah. They could also dilute it. They could have it administered over a period of an hour with saline, as opposed to just getting a subcutaneous injection like I do now. That's what I understand. Also from week to week to see how you're doing. I don't want to be one of those people jumping to conclusions per se, but this is something they specifically told me that they need to be vigilant about. And I am definitely showing the signs of something unusual. I'm having the kind of muscle spasms that people have after they move, like they're mostly sedentary but then they decide to do a whole lot of physical effort. It's the type of thing from fatigue. Like right now I'm talking to you, and I'm trying not to have my foot bother me because the arch in my foot is spasming. No good reason at all.
[14:19.2]
THERAPIST: How painful is it?
CLIENT: Right now, not so bad. It sometimes is really painful. I can put up with it for — it's been really bad for about six weeks. It's been going on for at least six months. It has happened in the past, but sort of went away after a while. I don't know. I'm just sick and tired of being sick, to be honest. I'm just really sick of being sick.
THERAPIST: I would imagine.
CLIENT: I just feel like — I don't know. The problem is that I'm angry and bitter a little bit because certain people in my life and even certain people I don't know very well in the community are like "Don't worry. There's a lot of research out there. Don't worry. You could maybe go into remission." I feel like in certain ways they set me up into having my expectations too high, you know? Like really, when it comes on that hard and that early, that's not the right thing to do. I have a doctor who basically said "Do all the things you want to do" and that was very helpful.
[15:37.7]
THERAPIST: You mean, get it done now instead of later?
CLIENT: Yeah. But it was much easier to be told by so many other people around me "Oh, they will come up with new drugs" or this or that, "You could go into remission."
THERAPIST: "Everything will be okay."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's interesting to hear.
CLIENT: I'm so sick of people saying that. I know it makes them feel better. It doesn't make me feel any better.
THERAPIST: It certainly isn't what you've lived with.
CLIENT: I'm not trying to seem gloomy about it, just —
THERAPIST: Well, it's pretty gloomy business, isn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah, it is. But it's irrational expectations to think that things will just go away. Really irrational expectations.
[16:30.5]
THERAPIST: What are the likely prognoses?
CLIENT: They don't really know. It changes from time to time. I haven't had any [ports in me] replaced in the past four years, which is good. It entirely depends on how the progression goes. Right now I seem to — although I'm in chronic pain and I'm exhausted, it seems to be that the joint deterioration is getting less. It's still there, but I'm talking about the progressive motion of the —
THERAPIST: Your joints aren't deteriorating at the pace at which they were.
CLIENT: Yes. I'm no longer having — it's very hard to explain this when I tell people about having to take parts out of you. There's no growing back at that point. It's not like I'm going to regenerate my elbows, you know. I have somebody else's tendons in me, you know. That's just, you know —
[17:34.1]
THERAPIST: How it is.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's never growing back because the other one is gone. (pause) There are some little things that I — I actually have this [back queue] of stuff I need to get done, but I just don't feel like it because it's such a flipping drag. Like they would really like to take my tonsils out. Because I'm on immunosuppressant, they've been infected since, I don't know, sometime in the 90s. They're not that infected, they're just always swollen.
THERAPIST: What are the consequences of that? Do they hurt?
CLIENT: I get sick easier. I am constantly carrying around a petri dish of diseases so that even if something isn't going around, if my immune system gets low enough, it can come out and get me. It's kind of like the nursery school effect. So I got that. So they really have to take those out.
[18:33.4]
I've gone through talking to the doctors and everything like that, and actually I just stopped. It's too much of a pain in the butt. It's two weeks of misery, you know. Maybe at some point when I'm starting to get — I mean, I get sick a lot. I mean, really sick a lot. I'm used to it. I mean, if I let myself, I could probably schedule surgery between now and the end of the year. So I just sort of put them off.
THERAPIST: But you don't want to.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: But you don't want to.
CLIENT: I know, I know. Exactly. It's just — I'm not sure if the [utility] is worth it right now, you know?
THERAPIST: This may be a strange way to put it, but I guess I also have the impression that it can feel almost like a physical kind of insult that you've just had more than enough of at this point.
[19:28.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. I've had enough. Basically when things impede my ability to live, I start getting them done. Like when I had my first elbow done, I couldn't — it's very hard to explain, but this joint here has a set of nerves that control these two fingers and [a little bit to the] thumb. So I couldn't pick things up anymore. When this started collapsing, basically the nerve got compressed, the tendon was shredded. I couldn't pick things up anymore. I had to actually have my husband brush my teeth for me. Because they're both bad.
But we decided with the doctor to get one in better shape first, then see if by getting this one in better shape and then having this hand rest, but I still ended up having to get that one done years later. So these are like the unintended consequences that most people don't realize that all these things go on. I mean, they kind of, but not really. So it was really difficult.
[20:34.1]
And this one, the tendon had totally ruptured by the time I had gotten in there to get it done. This one wasn't that bad, but it was still — at least it wasn't that there was nothing holding [up the first one]. The doctor was like "I'm not going to do this now, but one of these days you're not going to be able to call me fast enough to schedule the surgery. This is the number. We have all of the pre-stuff done." I really like that philosophy. The only problem is that all he does is elbows. It's kind of a specialized orthopedic. He does primarily sports medicine and orthopedic stuff. So he's like "Someday you'll get on the phone and you can't schedule fast enough."
I never realized what would actually happen was I'd go see the doctor and the next day I'd be having surgery because they said there's nothing holding up — I mean, I was like "Things aren't working right." It was like bad puppet arm. He's like "Yeah, that's because the tendon is no longer attached." I'm like "Oh, okay." It ate through the part it was attached to.
[21:36.3]
This one I caught a lot faster. But still, it's just a lot. I mean, it really is a freaking insult to have to deal with that kind of stuff, you know? On top of it, I don't heal normally from stitches. I am still splitting stitches from the surgery I had three years ago. Yeah, it was June 6th, or something like that.
THERAPIST: 2009?
CLIENT: Yeah, 2009. So I'm still actively getting rid of stitches, like dissolvable stitches. So I don't heal normally. If I could avoid it, I would. But I'm just sick and tired of being sick and tired. I'm just over it. It's really depressing.
[22:35.0]
THERAPIST: Yeah, and I think you're also bitter and pissed off about all of it, what you've had to go through and put up with.
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty much.
THERAPIST: During periods of your life when that's just not what most people are thinking about or having to deal with.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it would be nice to be able to go off and do certain things that I just can't do. I mean, there have been things in my life that I have never really been able to do especially well, but this is like — like people want to go out to the woods and to a cabin. I avoid it because my allergies are bad, like cabin mildew and things like that. It doesn't matter how much I take, I'm miserable. I'm just the person that doesn't do well with that kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: Do you want to do that stuff, I mean, apart from the allergies?
[23:26.5]
CLIENT: I don't know because I've never done it. So then a friend of mine is like "Look, they look like real cabins on the outside, but they have HEPA filters in every room. Like there's this amazing place in Virginia with HEPA filters in every room and they have this and that." I was like "That's amazing, but we still have to hike through the woods to get to it." I can't do that. It sounds awful, but if I get injured, I'm stuck.
THERAPIST: Like there's no way to get out of there, you mean?
CLIENT: Well, there will be, but not easily and not the same way. I mean (voices overlapping at 23:57.2). I mean, if I break an ankle or something, I don't want to be stuck.
THERAPIST: I imagine you're at much higher risk from the arthritis.
CLIENT: It's actually more from the steroids for breaking something. The steroids keep your body from absorbing calcium normally.
THERAPIST: So your bones are more brittle.
CLIENT: Yeah, so they become a lot more brittle. Yeah, the arthritis too, but everything is one big — this is the thing that gets me pissed so much, is that if I could just take pills for things, that would be fine. Even the shots. I don't like shots, but it's a trade-off.
[24:32.9]
If I don't want inflammation in my joints, I have to take steroids. Well steroids, first of all, make me gain weight like crazy and make me pissed off all of the time. And just to make things that much worse, it's the fact that it's actually hurting the arthritis. It's not helping it because it makes the joints more brittle. Plus the weight is bad for the arthritis too. So like nothing completely fixes anything. It's just trading off.
And I have fallen down the steps. Actually after my first surgery, I fell down the steps and broke my hand. That was exciting to have that. Luckily it was in a place where they couldn't cast it or anything, so they told me to keep it still. But it was just a lot to have to deal with, you know? So, we'll see.
[25:30.6]
I mean, there's been some good things in May too, I think. I just can't think of them right now. I'm hoping there will at least be some fun too because I don't think I can handle another work-filled, drudgery-filled month again. (pause)
I feel like whenever his parents come to town, they must think I'm the world's biggest wino because I'm always like "Okay, let's get a bottle of wine and sit down and talk." For some reason, it's so much easier to deal with them with a couple of glasses of wine. I do not drink —
THERAPIST: (laughter) I can't imagine why.
CLIENT: I know, I know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 26:18.3) I remember more the story with his mom.
CLIENT: That's his stepmom. His stepmom, the therapist. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Right. And dad.
[26:28.1]
CLIENT: And dad, yeah. Dad has been married three times and has children between the ages of 18 and 40. And he's in denial about his age. I'm just like —
THERAPIST: His psychologist stepmom?
CLIENT: Yep, sort of. Family counselor stepmom, I think. I don't know. I know she doesn't have a Ph.D. because every time I talk to her, she's still working on it. I think it's one of those mail-away kind of things. I don't really know. There are no accredited places in Miami that she supposedly would go to, other than — well, there's a couple, but Miami is not known for their academic institutions, let's just put it that way. And I don't mean to sound snarky about that, but, you know, I am. (chuckles) She's not that bright.
THERAPIST: If I remember correctly, she's said some pretty mean things.
[27:24.9]
CLIENT: She's said some very mean things, yeah. She sort of turns one way or the other. As long as I'm willing to support the story she wants me to support, she will be very kind to me. If not, then — the story of "We don't know what happened to Mike." I'm convinced, maybe she doesn't know, but I'm convinced that people know. But as long as I say "I don't know what happened to Mike" —
THERAPIST: Then she's okay with you.
CLIENT: For the most part, yeah. Or a couple other things that she wants me to support, like that Mike's sister is a saint on earth who gives up all of everything for her family and children. As long as I'm saying or doing anything to imply otherwise — not just saying, but I have to avow to that, then things are pretty good. Sort of. But yes.
[28:30.1]
It's a screwed up family. But, you know, they're coming to visit, which is good. They spent many years without visiting us at all. So I think that's a good start. (pause) So we'll just see. (pause) I would really really like it — it sounds stupid to say it this way — if they were willing to talk about Mike's problems on a real level other than the fluffy level of it. I would really like for us to not talk about it period, you know what I mean? (pause) It would be really —
[29:50.5]
THERAPIST: Like, in a sense, nothing is better than bullshit?
CLIENT: Yeah. Last time we spent any time together, his mother-in-law was trying to argue with me over whether or not my husband and I had sex very often. I think I would know.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: She's like "No, no, couples who are affectionate keep touching each other like that, after all these years, that's an indicator." I'm like "Really? Because I have been there and I would have known. If it is, I have serious amnesia issues." She's like "No, no, no, you don't have that kind of bond with him unless you have a good intimate relationship." I'm like "Really?"
THERAPIST: That's craziness.
[30:29.5]
CLIENT: It's like "No, we're really good at putting on an act of the most adorable loving couple in front of everybody." That is not necessarily — I was just disgusted by that conversation.
THERAPIST: If I follow, it sounds like craziness —
CLIENT: She was telling me that I cannot fake micro-expressions to make it seem like we had intimacy —
THERAPIST: She's almost saying that she has a better sense of what your sex life with your husband is than you?
CLIENT: Yeah. She's like "People can't fake micro-expressions. It's involuntary what you do, expressions and things like that." I'm like "Really?" I think she was trying to say that I was making it up and that it wasn't true. Not that I didn't know what I was saying.
THERAPIST: Inventing a problem that's not really there.
[31:27.7]
CLIENT: I was embellishing the situation. I don't even remember how in the world that came up at all. Because we don't talk about those kinds of things. Ever. I don't remember, but I remember I was in Target while shopping for an umbrella because it was raining.
THERAPIST: Oh God.
CLIENT: It was really really unpleasant. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It also sounds, apart from having been in Target, just wildly inappropriate.
CLIENT: There was a reason behind it, I remember. I think it was because at the time, that was the weekend that Mike's family therapist had his family come in to talk about his problems. His sex therapist was really pushing for him going to an inpatient treatment program. Mike was hoping his family would help pay for it. There were reasons behind this.
[32:32.7]
All weekend long, it was this ugly, awkward situation where my husband is trying to graduate and deal with all this stuff. They would like for him to go into this treatment program, but he has no money for it, plus Mike's dad doesn't really believe in these kinds of things entirely yet. He doesn't truly believe in this kind of addiction really either. Yet he's married to somebody who is a — I don't know. I really get the feeling that his dad is the world's biggest — what's it called? It's when you — I'm having one of those moments where I can't think of the word. He thinks he is the most knowledgeable and greatest resource on everything.
THERAPIST: Like know-it-all or megalomaniac?
[33:30.8]
CLIENT: Megalomaniac is closer. I was thinking narcissist. Narcissist, yeah. Like as the educated and smart man that he is, he can think through anything. It may not be actual knowledge of the actual item, but he can look at it and plow through it. Which is fine, because I actually feel a lot like that in many situations. And trust me, I know a lot more than he does. He just really believes that he knows better than everybody else. I can't wait until they start driving the car around in terms of being better than everybody else.
I feel stupid to be excited for the anguish that they go through for certain things in which they think they know what they're doing, but they don't. But you know what? Fuck it. I need to get my amusement somewhere in my life, and maybe just by being right once in a while, you know —
THERAPIST: It will help.
[34:33.9]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or at least feel just.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I said, the last time we saw them was that big incident in which now his sister isn't speaking to me because I told the truth on things.
THERAPIST: Sorry. There have been lots of incidents with the family.
CLIENT: This was the last time I even saw them. This was before we moved here. It was Mike's graduation weekend, basically. That's the one where just everything came together, and that was the last time we've seen any of them, other than his brother on his 21st birthday. It will be interesting and awkward. Did I mention that she was also the homecoming queen at her college?
THERAPIST: Your stepmother?
[35:34.5]
CLIENT: Yeah. Complete with bouffant sprayed hair and too much make-up all the time, and all that stuff, yeah. So if there isn't anything to make me feel even more — not uncomfortable in terms of like — I don't know what it is. But if there's anything to make me feel like I can't really talk to someone and be on a comfortable level, that's definitely it. They don't come into our lives very much, so I guess I should just be grateful.
[36:29.1]
THERAPIST: Or maybe you should be annoyed and bitter and pissed off.
CLIENT: Yeah, but — (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Or whatever you should be. Maybe that's what you are.
CLIENT: Are you sure you're a therapist, because you're not supposed to be saying these kinds of things. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: (laughter) What do you mean?
CLIENT: I'm making a joke. This concept of "You should be annoyed and bitter and getting amusement out of other people's Schadenfreude." I'm just being silly. To be honest, everything I do in here is so much different than I expected and have ever had with therapy. That is, you know, it's very interesting and somewhat — not unsettling. "Unsettling" has a very negative connotation to it. It's very different.
[37:33.8]
THERAPIST: I guess we haven't talked much about therapy you've been in before. What has it been like? Apparently different, but other than that?
CLIENT: Talking about thinking about situations differently. It was really behavioral based stuff. Really behavioral based. A lot of it was things like affirmations and stuff like that which sounds fabulous, except for the fact that if I wanted to brainwash myself, I could do it just fine on my own. It's mostly just been — I don't know how to explain it. Like I said, it's been really behavioral based.
[38:22.9]
It was not especially effective, because I really feel like — (pause) there are certain situations where going along with the motions does change things and change the way [that they're run], but when it came down to it, it just didn't. It really doesn't — (pause) it doesn't change reality. Pain management stuff is a lot of things like focusing on the future and pleasant things and things like that. I already do all that all the time already. (pause) I felt like a lot of it was something that I could've gotten from reading some women's magazine on "10 Tips to Make Your Day Better" kind of crap. It sounds weird to say it that way, but I really did feel like it, you know?
[39:22.3]
THERAPIST: It sounds like it felt sort of canned and superficial and it wasn't very helpful.
CLIENT: Yeah, it really felt like it really wasn't helping as much. Now part it might have been the fact that I wasn't putting into it as much, but I don't know.
THERAPIST: I wonder if those things are sort of reciprocal, you know?
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause) It's hard to tell. At least my husband and I had couples' therapy a while back. The biggest problem we had is the period of time we were doing it was the period of time where he was acting out so badly and lying. So it was absolutely devastating to have my husband being the model husband in therapy because we need to impress the therapist, really.
THERAPIST: And the therapist, that somehow wasn't being made clear to the therapist? Like that that was —
[40:23.3]
CLIENT: Oh, eventually we kind of got thrown out of therapy because of that.
THERAPIST: Thrown out?
CLIENT: Well, he was referred to talk to somebody else.
THERAPIST: By that —
CLIENT: The therapist, yeah. Once it became very obvious that he was lying about what was going on, yeah.
THERAPIST: Her mood was to say "Oh, then you should go talk to somebody else"?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh. I mean, that seems to me like sort of a problem.
CLIENT: Well, I think this was out of her depth. This was supposed to be couples' counseling, like learning how to communicate better and that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. I see. So her focus was on not whatever might be going on between the two of you and how to address it, but more a focus on ways of communicating —
[41:20.8]
CLIENT: Communicating. The kind of stuff that most people would have as problems, like very very simple stuff. Like talking about your feelings or being supportive of one another, or something like that. Like "When you don't take out the trash, it makes me feel bad." Saying phrases and — the problem is, is at that period of time there was so much subterfuge that none of this was even remotely helpful. So she basically recommended Mike to go talk to somebody else and a couple of other things related to it. It was pretty upsetting.
I can't believe I keep going back to mental health professionals after having had a real bad run of things. It wasn't always that way, but it definitely seemed like it for a while. It's really hard because I don't think that you understand how amazingly persuasive he can be about things. Like he has fooled the entire world.
[42:34.8]
In fact, I think about having him come in here to meet you, just so you can get some sort of read on this. Like, you would never never know. No matter how long you know this person, unless he got caught or got put in a situation to tell you, you would never know.
THERAPIST: It sounds like he presents as much more together and on top of things.
CLIENT: Yes, very much so.
THERAPIST: And kind of with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Attentive, loving, a good communicator while you're in the room there. It's not like he's doing it on purpose. It's just the kind of things you talk about are very low — we can talk about how I feel when he doesn't take out the trash just fine. I mean, we have that. We just can't talk about the fact that I am heartbroken when he acts out, and I feel lonely. Because when I talk about that, I don't get anything back. Either that, or I get the "I am a terrible person."
[43:43.8]
THERAPIST: Right. The communication breaks down.
CLIENT: Yeah. He talks about himself or "You'd be better off without me."
THERAPIST: We should stop for now, but we'll talk more. I'm not sure if this is what you guys want. It's not something you've mentioned, but if you're looking for a couples' therapist who wouldn't bat an eye at any of this, I can think of some.
CLIENT: Okay. I may want something later. Right now, I just feel like I'm already —
THERAPIST: Yeah. No problem.
CLIENT: Right now I definitely feel it would be really helpful for you to meet him to get a good grip on this. I mean, you have no idea, never would suspect anything. Which is why his parents seem to think he's growing out of this all of the time because he seems okay. No, he's not okay. So, I will see you Thursday.
THERAPIST: See you Thursday.
END TRANSCRIPT
