Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I'm pretty miserable. Yesterday I was pretty anxious all day long. I don't know I just haven't told my landlord about Buddy yet. I haven't called the vet yet. I just (pause) I feel like I don't have time to do things, you know. I can fall asleep at night pretty early now. Like during the day I feel like it's just—just like today, you know, I got to the meeting with the new member of (inaudible) and then I went to pick up Ian from school and do my (inaudible) I'm like, where am I supposed to get work at; between you and I, you know. And I'm just frustrated with everything; lack of work, lack of closings. Things just don't seem to be getting better, but it seems to be getting worse, you know. (Pause) I don't know. It's like I talked to my dad and I...
THERAPIST: Yes I imagined you're probably about ready to feel like you're getting something from just persevering with everything. [00:02:33]
CLIENT: Getting something?
THERAPIST: Getting something back for just sticking with it; with the kids, with work.
CLIENT: I was talking to my dad yesterday, I actually had a closing but, you know, the closing really drew me down (inaudible). But, you know, it's like I can't even tell him that, "Call the vet," you know, I can't even say to him to call the vet because I know if I say I don't have money he's going to find some—the other things I need money from him for, are going to need money from him, you know, it's like I can't even gather up—even, I got a ticket, they mailed it to me, moving violations and citation for having my card expiring, the registration, the safety and the inspection sticker, you know. Of course I can pull it up so I know it has been since April that I haven't —it's a $50 fine, I don't know if I get surcharged or not. I don't know if I get surcharged for running into the pole, but it's like everything that happens, nothing is making it any easier on me, everything is just adding to it. [00:04:06]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Like yesterday my—I park right by the driveway by the (inaudible) shop sometimes. And they like to give (inaudible) cookies. And so the woman gives Buddy a cookie and she's like right in his face, trying to get him to kiss her. And this other woman comes up from the side and starts petting him and starts getting in his face and I know right away that this is bad news.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: But I can't say anything, I can't, I can't vocalize. I couldn't tell her to stop, to back off, and Buddy just went (inaudible) and just, I mean, I don't know how he missed her, I don't know how he missed her. And so she runs off, the woman from the (inaudible) shop is all freaked out, you know, it just like, you know.
THERAPIST: Do you know what made it hard to say something?
CLIENT: I just, you know, my mechanism, you know, of thinking of, it just sometimes doesn't, something happens to me physically sometimes, I can't communicate quickly, you know, just I can't think of the right words.
THERAPIST: I wonder if you were like anxious because you were worried, knowing what was going to happen?
CLIENT: Yes. It's happened before where people crowded around the dog and he has gone after one of the people.
THERAPIST: I would think you would have to know you might be careful how you approach him.
CLIENT: Yes. And the woman goes and puts her face right in his and I'm just like, this is bad news. It's like I want to pull him away, and I didn't do anything (pause) until he starts jumping, you know. It's just kind of how I, you know, capped off my whole day of just misery. It just, you know, this is as I was coming home it's like, you know, this is the kind of dog that, you know, needs more attention than I have to give and it (inaudible) sucks. I have got to sacrifice. Like I've got these titles I've got to and, you know, they give me dates because those are the dates that kind of come up in the computer, but they want them by then, and I haven't done them; and I owe them two, I did one on Sunday and one they want today. Like I have no time to do them today and so it's like if they really want, I'm going to have to (inaudible) together and go the office and do these things. I'm just, you know, I'm finding that, not that I can't do the work, I don't want to—it's just, it's a pain in the ass, the work. There's nothing. I don't know. It's just, you get nothing out of it, it's just completely boring, meticulous, sometimes pain in the ass; and that's all I got, really, and not even really enough of that. 00:07:49
When the citation came, you know, I kind of bitched to myself about not having money for Buddy or not having money to fix the car. And Jess was right there and she just didn't say anything and just kind of walked away. She got this pile of money just sitting there and she has not made any offer whatsoever. She just got her car fixed, you know, she spent a thousand dollars. And it's like my car is dying a slow death and I've got to get it inspected and, you know, probably at least thousand dollars worth of work, who knows, I don't even know, and I'm making $700 on closing; $300,000, I should making a grand on you know. And I got maybe two deals, maybe three in my pipeline. It's just giving Claire's name to another realtor that she actually worked with and then, somehow, she has no idea what's going on with those. I probably should reach out and say, "Hey I'm so-and-so" (inaudible). (Pause) And today is the worst of all holidays, to do something nice for your wife. [00:10:09]
THERAPIST: Yes, all sorts of things.
CLIENT: Giving her $250 roses from (inaudible), lots of chocolates (inaudible) Fed-X.
THERAPIST: (inaudible). How do they package the flowers and ship them Fed-X.
CLIENT: I know King Flowers does it (inaudible). Jess complained one time I used King Flowers it was in a box and it wasn't (inaudible) unpack it (pause), I don't know if it's a bad idea to text her happy Valentines Day or not (inaudible).
THERAPIST: How could that be bad?
CLIENT: Because it's a text. (Pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yes. (Pause) She would probably go through it, I don't know when (inaudible) classmates, such a stupid holiday, just (inaudible). (Pause) It's like no one gets anything for groundhog's day, you know, no cards, no flowers, (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yes Hallmark (inaudible).
CLIENT: Six more weeks of winter. We haven't had any winter yet, how can it be six more weeks? (Pause) I started sleeping in my bed.
THERAPIST: (inaudible). [00:12:51]
CLIENT: I figured they're going to want to come up and at the window so I cleaned off my bed, put sheets on it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: I haven't yet. I mean I picked up a lot of the big pieces of glass, but I meant to borrow the kid's Dust Buster and wipe the blood off of the storm window.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I also was supposed to do last night, I didn't do it. I just kind of want to blow off today and just do nothing... just—I can't even remember what I did over the weekend. There is a family birthday parties for the kids on Sunday and that's when I did, I did all the cleaning. I Swiftered and even used the Wet Swifter, the place is still a mess. I balanced my personal account and my business account and they both have negative balances. It doesn't look like they're returning the items, so it not coming back as the positives, it staying negative, I don't know (inaudible) charges, its weird.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:14:25]
CLIENT: So I.
THERAPIST: Well that's great you cleaned up a little and you got some of (inaudible) accounts squared away I mean it's hard to do(inaudible).
CLIENT: There's no more football. (Pause) It's a shame (inaudible) from the kids' parents (inaudible) had some of it together. He doesn't want to return it and get something else he wants to keep it make a big village or something. I'm like, "Buddy, why doe we take it to the store and get something else? You've already done this. You've already..." He's like he doesn't want to do it. I'm not going to be the one to take him to the store anyways, so. (Pause) I'm just wondering what else can go wrong, you know. (Pause) I'm worried about the trust account, handling that.
THERAPIST: (inaudible). [00:17:02]
CLIENT: No. It's like a (inaudible) scheme, the fact that you're doing the closing. The money's there, it's not a big deal. But when things slow down and you can't replace the money, you know, (inaudible). (Pause) I've got to take some money from this closing and put it back and just kind of start working it. I don't have any groceries or anything like that but I'll lose weight. I'm eating like one meal a day. So yesterday I had leftover cake. I don't know if that's making things worst, I'm not eating any breakfast or lunch. (Pause)
THERAPIST: That's really not good.
CLIENT: What, not eating?
THERAPIST: (inaudible) to eat. (Pause) Is there anymore help you can get or is that?
CLIENT: I'm worried about paying (inaudible) tickets. I don't know it's like I just can't keep borrowing money, you know.
THERAPIST: And there's no way, I assume, to have somebody else take the (inaudible) for a year and get (inaudible) back?
CLIENT: Probably I just (pause) I don't have the motivation to try and find someone to deal with it or (pause) I don't know I've got so many things that I'm just so ambivalent to. It's just one more thing I've got to, trying to deal with I don't want to deal with. I mean I have a feeling my dad would charge them for me and let me pay him back. I've got to wait to borrow any money or if the modification doesn't go through, you know, the taxes and so I can't keep borrowing money from Jess. She obviously is not— I've had an opportunity for her to say, "Oh here, take some money," she hasn't done that. [00:20:43]
We're hiring a lawyer for 1200 bucks, we meet on Friday. (inaudible) to deal with all our IRS and (inaudible) stuff, which is big, you know, chore off my shoulder.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: And that would be a big deal (pause) cause I was not going back to concerts I would normally want to go to hear the band play in the garden in January. I don't know just (coughing). There's part of me that says my business is going to return back to normal and I'm going to catch up, and there's part of me that says it's just going to stay like this, you know.
THERAPIST: Well hopefully it will but, I mean, you're probably going to wind up with too much money, you know.
CLIENT: You know if I have a typical spring, you know, last year I didn't. If it's like last year, you know, I don't know like you know, they kept on saying on, "Oh you know as soon as your bankruptcy's done, you'll feel this huge weight off of your shoulders." There is no weight that has been lifted from me. I still feel, you know.
THERAPIST: The only thing that's going to make a difference is business picking up. (Pause) And the impression is that some combination, I don't know, some combination of, you know, just getting more business in and feeling better, like feeling well enough to (inaudible). You know that gets really hard when you're feeling (inaudible). [00:23:52]
CLIENT: Yesterday I just felt so anxious too, I just, I was working on Summary of Judgment Motion, I don't know if that's why I was anxious or just, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Were you anxious about (inaudible) it up?
CLIENT: Mom's questioning whether I'm doing it the right way or just something that you were doing, you know? It's like I haven't even read the whole thing through, you know, the opposition yet, like where I have an opportunity to reply. I've got to go ask the courts to reply. I don't know just, just like fuck it, mail it in. You know, I'm supposed to (inaudible) because you lay out all the facts that there is no issue with on a sheet of paper, you know, often by itself and you e-mail it to the other party and they're supposed to go back and underneath each fact, state why there's an issue and why there is not. (Overlapping) and I didn't do that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So according to the rule and specific in the rule that all of these have to be accepted as non-triable facts; and so I win like, even though in their memorandum, and in her affidavit, she does provide it. It is ridiculous the arguments they're making. But I'm still worried; you never know what the court's going to do.
THERAPIST: So (inaudible) how much of this (inaudible) how much is it not; in other words, like it sounds like (inaudible).
CLIENT: I'm also anxious about calling the vet. I'm anxious about telling my landlord. I don't know just everything except, you know, doing a closing; that's the only thing I just don't mind doing I'm like—to take up my whole day to do a simple closing and I don't mind. I used to get upset, bitch and moan about not having the documents anymore, I'm used to that. But anything else I have to do is a fucking chore. [00:27:36]
THERAPIST: I that because you're really happy to do closings, because you're really getting paid well, is that what you want to be doing (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Yes that's the family business I want to do it and I know it, it's (inaudible). As much as the ballgame has changed for me it's still sign and date it here, this is what this document is, answer any questions, tell them why they're wrong, convince them that their fears are, you know. Then it becomes just clerical work getting, you know, dispersing packages to where they're supposed to go, check's (inaudible); even that I don't mind because I have to be staying in the office until 11:00 at night doing that kind of stuff, which I was doing when I was busy.
THERAPIST: Is it like being worried (inaudible) or being resentful about having to do it?
CLIENT: Not resentful, I'm just—I understand that I've got to find more contacts or find more business somehow, but it's like I've been networking and doing what I thought I was supposed to be doing for years and it is all gone away. I know as we get towards the summer I'll have a couple of deals here and there, but you know I've got one deal from the guy at the company, got a buddy from law school who has a commercial deal where I'm just going to do the title work, which I actually might be, you know 1300 bucks or so. I've got a bunch of these little titles, but no other real good prospects, no real—I'm dealing with a woman on Friday who wants to talk about her estate plan, but no—I mean Jess has people calling her constantly (inaudible) some that she turns down. I spent all this money on this website and now (inaudible) money, (inaudible) thrown away. And actually I think it's just been giving Jess a lot of business, being in the directory. The directory is a higher ranked website so that comes up when they search. [00:30:48]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you got nothing coming in the next few months. It's not as much as you want but not.
CLIENT: Yes but I wish I had (inaudible). I mean I wish I could have a $1,000 just sitting in my bank account so I could go get my car fixed. I don't own a credit card, so it's like I've got to have the money, you know. And I got to call the vet and say, "Well let's do this, let's do this, let's do this," and I would be like, "Oh, by the way, I don't have no money." And they're going to want to put Buddy on medication, which is going to be however much a month. I mean I already spent, God knows, hundreds of dollars in medication for myself.
THERAPIST: I'm not as hopeful that—I think you do fairly often, which is to talk to your dad about like what you need to be doing or what's going to make things better and talking about how bad things are and how much you to wish they were different.
CLIENT: What does that mean?
THERAPIST: It means I think it's hard for you to think about the things that you need to be doing because you're so overwhelmed with how bad things are and what you don't have.
CLIENT: I should throw in I had a company president's meeting yesterday, which probably (inaudible) up a lot of anxiety about the company. I just don't have the effort to get to run, you know, put the chapter on my back and do what needs to be done. Someone needs to put that chapter on their back and save it. Seems like they are the people who are in it, it's not that they, they're not doing, just a lot of people have (inaudible). That's always been a source of his business from Ray, and his retirement has cost me dearly. But even before he retired you know.
THERAPIST: But does it have to be (inaudible). And you (inaudible) the big check of the year. (inaudible), which would have been your chance to make some more connections. [00:34:16]
CLIENT: The life insurance guys connected me through e-mail to this local bank and I haven't even contacted the guy yet, so I'm going to want to contact the guys. Here is one more guy who has got attorneys that he uses (inaudible) nice meeting you, you know. Send me some business and then we'll see, you know.
(Pause) Jess keeps asking me for the water bill, which I know where it is and I just partly I keep forgetting to bring it with me, but part of me just seems like I don't want to hear complaining about money or finances. It's just one more opportunity for there to be conflict. We owe like 800 bucks.
(Pause) I don't know if I mentioned it but I fucked up a closing or an old tenant's friends bought a house and I ordered lien certificate from the wrong parcel, so their escrows where short. They had a shortage of 3200 bucks, which means they got an extra couple hundred dollars in their payment now, which they would have had last year but they now have this year and so now they can't afford the mortgage. There were some penalties and interest which I've offered to pay like 100 bucks, that's really hard to do. I'm sitting on the phone with the woman and I'm just like, this is what happened, sorry. I wish there was more I could do but, it just sucks. At least then I was, just picked up the phone and called her and got it over with you know. (inaudible) [00:38:11]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Churn in my stomach. So there's another hundred bucks (inaudible). (Pause).
THERAPIST: (inaudible). (Pause) Yes it's good you called her up and took care of it, when did you do the closing?
CLIENT: December 09, no December 10th. And their closing was, I was holding $5,000 because it was a holdback because the people who sold the house, stay there as a multi family and that was the money I was floating to borrow (inaudible) pay back. So then I have to send that money out and then, how I made it through last year I don't know. (Pause) [00:40:44]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) a lot easier if you were in this with somebody else, you know? (inaudible) that can make a big difference.
CLIENT: You now Jess is so emotional about having to move, losing the house that I can't even bring up (inaudible) account because that's the first thing she's going to say is, "Oh we're going to lose the house?" (Pause) Gas is killing me.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) what is?
CLIENT: Gas. It's like I have to go to the north shore and network with people or go to the office. It's over 40 bucks a tank, and the car is not getting good gas mileage because it needs to be fixed. It's like today I'm literally driving up north, just to meet with new woman in the chapter. It's not even enough time really to shoot into (inaudible).
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: I wish there was because I want to see if there's any money coming in.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) for now [00:44:09]
END TRANSCRIPT
