TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: 5-103, client number 0735-103. This, is session number, either 13 or 14, I forget which. I think it's session number 14. This is1970; 1970, session number 14. And what's more, I only (ph) have to take a phone call in the middle. 


PATIENT: I'm running out of things to talk about. Now what do I do; adlib? Is that bad or good? 


COUNSELOR: Like in sometimes, you're ...


PATIENT: It seems like when I first started I had things I felt like I needed to talk about. And now that I feel that I covered all those subjects, well I've come to the point where I kind of feel at a loss for something to talk about.


COUNSELOR: Like you've talked about every subject that you can think of.


PATIENT: That it - this might be a problem. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. [1:59]


PATIENT: And I try to make things have some kind of relevance for the most part at least because of therapy. Cruel things pass through my mind every once in a while. Like last night my wife started this other job; she's working for a nursing home or something as a receptionist. And for once, I was kind of proud of myself in a way, I didn't have the slightest urge to call and see if she was there. 


I didn't really care whether she went there or not to a certain extent. I mean I did, but I thought well it was kind of unusual for me to kind of not worry about where she was and what she was doing all the time, which is maybe a step forward. 


COUNSELOR: It's really different because, like, usually you would have been wondering if she was there.


PATIENT: For the last six months, it would have been a different story up until, say up until this therapy started today; in fact after it started, to a great extent. And now I'm getting to the point where I can kind of accept the fact that she's going to a job, and not worry about whether she's there or whether she's some place else. And not even worry about quizzing her when she gets home, or other little tactics that I have. 


COUNSELOR: OK. It's not - it sounds like it not so much that you decided I'm going to trust her. It's like, it isn't - unless you really [roll it] (ph) an issue for you at this point. 


PATIENT: I think it's a little bit of both. It's more that - maybe it's some that I trust her more and some that I trust myself more, or it's not so important anymore or something. But it's a whole lot of things working together, I think, have caused this easing off of pressure, you might say. [4:05]


COUNSELOR: [Do you think that's destructing] (ph), or?


PATIENT: To a certain extent, yeah. I think I trust myself. I trust her. I don't have this constant fear that she's doing something behind my back now. It's, like I said, it's a lot of things seeming to work together. Maybe it's all right up here in my mind and (inaudible at 4:31).


COUNSELOR: [And it's worth a lot here] (ph).


PATIENT: It's worth a lot whatever it is. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wasn't quite sure what you meant about trusting yourself more. 


PATIENT: Maybe I'm not either. I don't know. I don't know; just how I could say something will change it to a point where I'm more emotionally stable. Not so much the trusting part just the - maybe I feel like I'm more emotionally stable now or something. 


COUNSELOR: It's not quite clear, but it has something to do with your own relationship to yourself. 


PATIENT: Yeah, there's just something to do with the way I accept things or something maybe. It's not entirely her. It's partially the way I look at things or accept things now or something. 


COUNSELOR: Accept yourself maybe, or?


PATIENT: Yeah. I found big change in the way I look at myself in the last few weeks. I went into the restroom down there before I came up here, and I looked, just glanced at myself in the mirror. And I got to thinking, you know, sometimes I look at myself and go, "You're going to bust your hands from looking." And then other times, "[that's why] (ph) can everybody ever see in you." You just kind of change from one minute to the next your own opinion of yourself. [6:15]


And, I guess, that's more or less normal to have elated feelings about yourself sometimes, and other times you're the homeliest (ph) thing on earth. So rather than just feeling insecure and feeling that nobody loves me and all this all the time, you just feel it once in a while. Maybe 30 minutes later you might just be completely at the other end of the pendulum. Or the other end of the swing of the pendulum. 


COUNSELOR: And somehow recognizing that it is both up and down.


PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, life is a sign factor; sign function. And it just bottoms of the pit all the time. 


COUNSELOR: The bottom of the only thing.


PATIENT: [I'm not as great] (ph) as I use to be. It seem like the zero line went there and the peak's maybe just barley got above, and then way down there; come back up, just barely above it, and I move the zero line down a little bit or something and there's just as much happy time as there is sad time it seems like maybe. You would have to take mathematics don't you?


COUNSELOR: I know what a playing curve is.


PATIENT: OK (laughter).


COUNSELOR: But that's enough kid (laughter). 


PATIENT: That's about all I know too, so don't get any deeper. I had enough sense to get out of math when I got to the point where I couldn't seem to comprehend anymore of it. I found out I didn't have to have any more so that's fine with me. Let's just call it quits on math. 


COUNSELOR: The other thing I got out of what you said is like maybe even some kind of perspective where instead of being, even when your down, like of instead of being just in the pit, like you can also see it as part of the playing curve. 


PATIENT: Well there's even some good in the pit it seems like now. Let's say, for instance, last night that I was sitting home with the kids; I had to baby-sit. Even if it was payday just the other day, I didn't have any money to try to paint any rooms like I wanted to or replace the window, which is broken, or anything like this. [8:31]


So I just kind of sit and watch TV. But three or four weeks ago, this would have bugged the heck out of me because I would have been in a kind of fit of depression because it seemed like everything was kind of working against me. And now I seem to be able to accept it at least and say, "Well it's just for a short period of time maybe; something's got to come good."


So I sit and watch TV. Played, very little, played dolls with a little girl who didn't seem to be able to amuse herself. And the little boy was outside playing, and after a while I decided well I'll go down and check to see if my clothes are washed up, and they weren't. So I threw them in the washer, and got a little mad at my boss. I mean you figure out how he fit it into that (laughter). 


COUNSELOR: I figure it's his [rough hands].


PATIENT: Got a little mad at my boss. Did my washing; watched another program or two, and by that time she was home. And, like I said, I didn't have an urge to jump up and all that; where did you go, what did you do, all this? Because I - she told me that she was going to work, and I accepted it. It was that, you know. And a few other little tactics that I had, well I just kind of passed it off and watched the news and went to bed. I got all kinds of sneaky ways of finding out where she was, and what she was doing.


COUNSELOR: But last night, you just didn't ask or didn't want to.


PATIENT: I accepted it. Way in the back of my mind there was just a tiny bit of urge to do something or find out where she was. 


COUNSELOR: Tiny bit.


PATIENT: Make sure she was at work, but usually the first thing I do is try to find out the number of the place where she's working, so I can call in with some flimsy excuse to find out if she' s there; just some little, something like that. Getting real personal; when she comes to bed, I used to check, you know, kind of feel certain areas to see if they were what I thought was acceptable. Do you know what I mean? [10:41]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're wondering if anyone had touched her. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Instead of that I'd just rolled up and went to sleep like I thought we both would want it to be. So that's why this morning it was sure rough getting up. I overslept this morning. I went home yesterday also with a big feeling of accomplishment because I thought that I had accomplished quite a bit at work yesterday. 


I'd gotten this equipment to working like it was supposed to. I had made some progress on the compound that I was running through the equipment. Ran some through, put them in the oven to bake out. You put it in the covered groove and then you bake it in an oven and all this. 


And I felt real proud of myself, I guess. That might of had something to do with it. The fact that I felt that I earned a day's pay or more, and today I've been sitting around twiddling my toes and not doing much of anything because it doesn't seem like there's anything I can accomplish today. So maybe it's - today I'll probably go home kind of depressed. And I didn't accomplish anything. I might as well have stayed in bed this morning instead of trying to get up. 


COUNSELOR: It's something of a - yesterday feeling that you had earned your pay like really set you differently with yourself. 


PATIENT: The only thing that could have been better I thought was for the boss to be there, and he'd be able to run in saying, "Look, I've done this, that, and the other all day toady." And get my points you might say. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: But about 3:30 or something, he took off and had to catch a plane and go to the west coast. And I didn't know about it, and of course he - I didn't get this complete feeling of accomplishment by, again, going and getting my points. [12:47]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it would have been nice if he could have known about it as well as you knowing about it.


PATIENT: Right. By the time he gets back, I won't have accomplished too much more it seems like and so that'll lose my points there. 


COUNSELOR: So it's important that he gives you points as well as you given yourself points.


PATIENT: When I give myself points, it doesn't help any. But there's been one accomplishment today; I found out that this piece of equipment trying to ship out is not going to get shipped out. And it's beyond me to get it accomplished, so when he comes back that will be the first thing. I'll just dump it in his lap and say, "It's not going to get shipped. Here, do something about it" because he's on the level that he can do something about it. 


COUNSELOR: You thought about one more thing that's hours away.


PATIENT: To a certain extent. There would have been a time whenever - not being able to get this piece of equipment shipped out, and knowing how much he wanted to get it into the plant, I might have had the tendency to jump up and run and get a rental truck, and put it in the rental truck and take it down there. But at the moment, it's just not my makeup to accomplish it that way. I would rather take it back and dump it in his lap and say, "Here's your problem" because of the fact that he's created this problem. [14:25]


So the guy that does the crating, is getting the crating, got a work order from my boss sometime ago to go to a shelf in his office closet, and he didn't do it. And so the boss, my boss, came up with something else he wanted to accomplish. So he wrote this plus the other one down on a nasty note and sent it to this guy's boss, and it really kind of chewed him out. And, of course, the big guy's boss turned around and chewed this guy out. 


So he got in there and got this accomplished for my boss. But this kind of set him off, and when I tried to get this thing crated to be shipped by it, it's not being progressed. And it's not my doing, I don't think. I haven't created the reason it's not being crated, so it's going back to my boss. 


COUNSELOR: So it sounds like you kind of relish the poetic justice in it.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: He created the problem, and you can dump it right back on him.


PATIENT: You build this wall here, and now you're going to have to find a door through it. You got to handle people in a certain way in order to get them to do what you want to without taking them off, as the saying goes. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I guess you could look at this as a lesson he could learn with compared (ph) to a lot of people, including you. 


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I feel a lot of times that I could do a better job of handling people than he can. He's the boss. So instead of worrying about his mistakes, I just hand them right back to him. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, if he makes a mistake, it's his problem. You've be dammed if you were going to take it on yourself.


PATIENT: Like this thing there in Indiana, you know, we had this coating and he didn't - he said, "Now here's what we want to do." And so I went and did it just like he said, and then it came to light later that he hadn't done it right. 


And I didn't feel it was any of my fault because he told me to do it a certain way. I did it that way, and it was wrong. So I've learned that instead of worrying about these things, I just hand them right back to him and say, "OK here's the way you told me to solve the problem. It didn't work. What else do you think you might want to try?" [16:49]


COUNSELOR: And not covering up for him.


PATIENT: Not worrying about the mistakes that he makes. I've got it all set up in my mind how I would run the show if I was in his shoes. And it just kind of lays there on the shelf. I'll never be in that position I don't think. But if I am, I hope that I can go back and say, "Now look, here's what we are going to do." And I feel like maybe I wouldn't make some of the mistakes that he makes. 


COUNSELOR: I guess it kind of feels twist to you to think that you could do a really good job running things.


PATIENT: In a certain way.


COUNSELOR: Maybe they don't recognize that you could do a better job than he does. 


PATIENT: Oh I told him the other day, I said - he said something about he was appreciating the way I was doing a better a job. And I said, "Yeah, but ..." I said, "I can do it 100 percent better than I'm doing it if I just had the right motivation." And I told him what the motivation was last year. It's the stuff that puts bread on the table.


COUNSELOR: So like say he was like - him saying he appreciates it isn't quite enough. He wants really to get you motivated; you want to tell him this - it's the bread. To get 100 percent out of you, you got to get some pay.


PATIENT: If you're going to buy me, you're buying me at my price. And if you want to set your price, I'll match it with you equally; the ability equal to what the pay is. I might have popped up there yesterday and said something about that increase of potential. And then I said, "Well OK, then I'll turn around and increase my potential to do a better job, you know, I'll do a better job." That means I can. I have the ability to if he ever decided to call on it." [18:51]


COUNSELOR: Yeah but you're not going to sell yourself for cheap. 


PATIENT: Like I said, every once in a while, about once - used to be about once a year, they haven't called us in in quite a while - and they call us in. And instead of given us all a little raise, they say, "Well we've raised your salary range." And I say, "This, is their ability make more money." But that doesn't affect us at all. You see, it doesn't put any more money in our pockets or anything. 


Instead of being able to order - to pay our guy this range, we're going to move the range up a little bit. When actually, if you get right down to it, if you're sitting in a certain spot in that range and they move the range up, that's just a decrease in pay. And so ... 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you kind of resent it.


PATIENT: Yeah there's a lot of people around that place that resent it. And I think if they ever have one of those sessions again and tell us they raised our potential, I'm going to jump up and tell them that we'll all raise our potential to do a better job, but that doesn't mean you're going to get anything more out of us until you start putting that money in the paycheck. 


I was sitting here today thinking maybe I could underground - those, sort of organize an underground movement to organize everybody in the tech center because if you do this above board, you're the first one to get fired; they get rid of people who are agitators real quick. So I'll pass this around among everybody, and get everybody organized into a union, and then all of a sudden hit him with it. 


And say, "All right, we're union. Here's what we want for our salaries" and do like the truckers do; walk out if they don't give it to us. [20:31]


COUNSELOR: [To you] (ph) that might really be the way to do it.


PATIENT: It would be the way to do it all right. But I think it would take more than me to do it. I'm an agitator, but I'm not quite that much of an agitator. 


COUNSELOR: How do you mean there? 


PATIENT: Oh, I'll take the opposing view just for the sake of argument. But as far as being the leader of the loyal opposition, you might say, I don't think I could ever [flow through that] (ph); roll.


COUNSELOR: What makes you say that?


PATIENT: I just don't think I'm that much of a leader. 


COUNSELOR: Don't have the kind of personality and, I don't know, dynamism or whatever have you.


PATIENT: Well, to me, the part that's lacking is being able to get up in front of people and present something. I feel limited in that area a great deal. Could I try one of your locks (ph)?


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: Just out of curiosity and see what they taste like. Pretty good; I miss that menthol though.


COUNSELOR: Hmm.


PATIENT: I said I miss that menthol. Sort of like toothpaste smell. I guess like I could really, over a period of time, to have certain qualities to be able to work into this union leader type thing. But, to me, it seems like a formidable task, which there would be no rewards for at all in the long run. [22:55]


COUNSELOR: Very formidable task and maybe not worth the effort. 


PATIENT: It's like these people that they put on these committees to say, for instance, at the party we had last Saturday, they put, oh I don't know, a dozen or so people on this committee. They don't get anything for it. They have a - they give them a certain amount of budget money, I guess it is, to buy gifts and beer and stuff like this for the party. 


And so they take that, and they do a damn good job of it. And when it's all over, well they might get a little mention and have a, what they call, a [text in their brief]. It's just a sheet of paper that they pass around, you know, like the company bought so and so company in Australia. That makes us a bigger company; yippee, yippee. Or so and so joined the company; yippee, yippee. Or so on so done this committee and all of these people organized the party; yippee, yippee. And that's about the size of it, so.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's not your style. I mean you don't ...


PATIENT: If I thought there was a chance of working into a high paying union job like some of these union leaders, I might have enough ambition to at least start working towards it. But I don't think it would work into that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah and you don't see putting a whole lot of effort and energy when there isn't something coming back to you.


PATIENT: You've got to have some rewards to work for. I was on this so called safety committee that they had for a while. I got to the point where it was just a thankless job. So instead of getting more involved in it - I'm really doing a good job with everybody on the committee - just kind of lost interest, and they quit having the thing. [24:39] 


They getting that air conditioning unit up here? 


COUNSELOR: Excuse me?


PATIENT: Are they getting that air conditioning in here?


COUNSELOR: Let's hope so.


PATIENT: That's an air conditioner unit I think. I came flying up here a while ago, and I was coming up the street to check to see if there's any parking places out here. And there's a guy blocking the street off down here, and that threw a curve at me. And before I could stop and think, I was on down the street. I just wanted park right in there. I didn't want to drive through. Between when I got out of the car and walked up here, there weren't any parking places in here, so so much for that idea. That's the one thing I can say for the late appointments, you can find all kinds of parking places.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.


PATIENT: And I'm lazy, let's face it. If I can get one right outside the door, I'd be glad to park there. It goes right back to work. They have a lot there that they don't have enough spaces for all the people that - if everybody drove their car, they'd be parking in the streets blocks away. Fortunately there are a lot of people that get together and have car pools.


And this cuts down on the number of cars, and it kind of doesn't seem to be doing anything about it really. They'll shuffle around a little bit every once in a while. And then maybe add a - take a parking space out of an isle, you know, or two. 


They don't really seem to be trying to solve the problem, which goes right into the tech center. A lot people in our tech are going, "Well why if the company is not doing anything, why should I do anything" or the organization leadership or whatever you want to call it? 


COUNSELOR: That irks you when people are inefficient; people don't seem to care about doing what needs to be done. [26:30]


PATIENT: Very inefficiency just turns around and breeds more inefficiency. Then they wonder why their not really getting the work put out that should be out. I keep saying if I had some people working under me, that I would get to know these people real well. And I think I'd feel like I would be able to really communicate and get the job done. Whereas I think some people really don't seem to have this ability. Maybe everybody has it, but just don't want to recognize it. 


I'm going to find out something when I get home today, I think. I gave my wife one little task. I wanted her to see if she could accomplish today. I told her to go to the hardware store and buy a certain size piece of glass to replace this hanging bulb (ph). I started working on it the other night. I took the piece of broken glass out. Went downstairs, and found a piece of glass in the basement that I could cut this piece out of. And in my process of trying to cut it, I couldn't get it out of that piece. I broke it off one way, and thought I'll turn it around and try to cut it out the other way. And it broke again. Not where I wanted it to, so I took the storm glass and put it in place. 


And said, "Well one of these days when I get some money and some time, I'll run to the hardware store and get a piece of glass that size." So I gave her the task today to go to the hardware store and get a piece of glass that size. [28:33]


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: And I'm just curious as [all good how] (ph) as to whether she will accomplish it in two standpoints; whether she has the time, which I think she does, and where she was able to scrape up the money to go get it with. Maybe that's what my boss is doing to me.


COUNSELOR: [Would that be enough] (ph) for you? 


PATIENT: Well trust me, and I'll see if I can accomplish something. Maybe he's seen me fail too many times all ready. 


COUNSELOR: How does that make you feel to think of your boss [sitting around]?


PATIENT: Well it's all right with me if I succeed him; if I'm able to accomplish what he gave me to accomplish in an economically and sufficient way. Like, to me, it's going to say when I look to your approval (ph), doing things that maybe he couldn't do, maybe not. It's just my own way of looking at things. 


COUNSELOR: Like if you're accomplishing well economically, you want to feel good about yourself and confident. 


PATIENT: Yeah. And then even to a point where I feel like I could do a better job of what he's trying to do than he can, which, like I say, is only a selfish kind of way of looking at it; unless I'm watching out for little number one. [30:24]


COUNSELOR: I guess in a way it kind of gulls you that he's got a more responsible position than you have and, especially, when you could do it as well.


PATIENT: He's got a more responsible position, but he's got the educational background for it that I don't have. To me, I'm able to grasp the whole picture, maybe he is too. But from the standpoint I see, he's got the master's degree. He should be the boss. Now the other guy and I that have the bachelor's degree should be kind of under him. And the guy that's just the intern and has a high school education, should stay under us more or less.


And maybe there isn't that much organization there. The intern answers to him just like I do, which either brings me down to the intern, me and the other guy down to the intern's level, or brings the intern into our level so to speak. I don't know. As much as you want to say that you're not class conscious, but you are because you feel that well now this intern ought to be answering to him through one of us. 


COUNSELOR: So the key (inaudible at 32:01) that brings you down.


PATIENT: One way of looking at it, yeah. I'm not going to say it kind of irks me whenever he gets a project that I kind of like to have. Those - to me is say's, "Well he's just as capable of paring out a job as you guys, and you've been to college." 


COUNSELOR: It's almost like you've been - you can see it with the boss being the boss with a master's degree and having a responsibility because of that. If you got corresponding responsibility having a bachelor's degree ...


PATIENT: Yeah, like I said, you put it on sort of like a class type thing where he should be the boss, and you should be the next step, and the intern should be the next, and on. Like in the Army, the privates don't go straight to the generals. They go to the sergeants; the sergeants go to the captains; captains go the majors; and so on up the line, see. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah but you don't like being on the lowest room.


PATIENT: No. I feel like I fought a little bit and got an education, and I should be maybe a rung or two above the guy that didn't. Where I stand, the boss says, "Well this intern is just as capable of paring out a job as guys that have been to college." It's like I said, it kind of degrades us in a way. 


COUNSELOR: He doesn't recognize your value. It says you're not worth much. 


PATIENT: And from where I stand, this, is kind of a - enters into the raise picture. When the raise is [coming I'm going] (ph), "Well I got a intern here that's only making $500 a month, and he's doing a good job. And this guy here is making $700 a month, and he's not doing much more, so why should I give him a raise" type of thing. [34:27]


I was sitting downstairs; I was just about to fall asleep. It seems like I've been, you might say, really relegating all my problems instead of feeling all my problems at home and seeming to be all at work more. She's probably noticed this in those tapes. It started out that I was talking about home all the time; wife and children and all of this. Maybe, mostly wife, and now it's all job, job, job. Once in a while it's wife or children. 


COUNSELOR: Maybe that makes some kind of sense that - in a sense that both at home and on the job, you want to be an effective man and recognized as such.


PATIENT: And, to me, if you're given credit for what you do, then you'll do more. But if you're not given much credit, then you'll live up to it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're God damn well aren't going to do it without the credit either. [36:46]


PATIENT: I was sitting downstairs yesterday reading the paper. My dad (ph) asked me what I was doing, and I said, "Nothing, it's what I do best." I said, "In fact I have very little fear of failing at this job." If you give them nothing, then you have a very low chance of failure. 


COUNSELOR: Which must make this job unsatisfying in that way, so it's just by not ...


PATIENT: I was just kind of kidding around a little when you get right down to it. To me, there was sort of a philosophical error about what I [still see] (ph).


COUNSELOR: You can't feel it doing nothing. But I guess it's relevant in a sense. It's just like succeeding the value (ph) is real important to you.


PATIENT: I would say everybody is.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. I didn't mean that you were unusual (inaudible at 38:02).


PATIENT: Everybody has their ideas of what they ought to succeed at. And if they don't find it, it would be drastic. If they do, they feel secure. 


COUNSELOR: For you to, like, accomplishing something makes you feel secure and not accomplishing something makes you feel depressed and insecure. 


PATIENT: Like I said, I think I rearranged my accomplishments. Instead of saying I want to accomplish something real fast and then working at it and working at it and seeming not to make any progress, well I'll have to say, "Well I'm going to accomplish this in the same year." It makes you feel - it makes you feel better.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind of defining your accomplishment as more [they come] (ph). 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 39:00)

PATIENT: [You mean] (ph) that many of them downstairs, and showing this guy where the big bankers going to be; international bosses, you might say. And I think to myself, you know, I don't ever want to be one of those. I just want to be a medium size cog in a wheel. I don't want to be the peon, but then I don't care to be the number one boss either. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: And it seems like you can always look around and see when those guys are just about in the position I'd like to be in. I'd like to peon this, and people [working remember] (ph) something about saying, "Well he's not the number one boss."


COUNSELOR: And it's OK not to be the number one boss, but they better not start treating you like a peon. 


PATIENT: It's about that time, yup. 


COUNSELOR: [Sure you need 15 minutes] (ph). Do I have any smaller (inaudible at 40:11) at that time?


PATIENT: (Inaudible at 40:13).


COUNSELOR: 1:15 


PATIENT: 1:15.


COUNSELOR: I have 1:15 to 2:30.


PATIENT: I didn't remember exactly what time it was today, so I had to call them for my appointment (ph) and find out. I knew it was 2:00, 2:30, 3:00; I knew it was in that area somewhere. 


COUNSELOR: OK. 


PATIENT: I'll see you later.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: Bye.


COUNSELOR: Bye. [41:00]


END TRANSCRIPT
