Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So Buddy, on this paw he cut part of his pad off and on this paw he now has this arthritic pain where his paw cups under. It eventually loosens up as he walks but no jumping out of bed or off the couch. And Jess says, "Take him to Dr. Canton (ph). Call Dr. Canton (ph). He needs to see Dr. Canton (ph)." I'm like, "I don't have the money," and she's like, "Well what are you going to do about it?" I said, "Well maybe I'll get a job delivering pizzas." Which maybe I should get a job delivering pizzas. I don't know. My car is too old to be put through that kind of abuse. I could get a job at an all night Starbucks. I've always wanted to work at a Starbucks. And now I probably would prefer Peet's but now Starbucks is much busier. [00:01:38]
(pause) But I found a quasi-solution to...I have some title policies that are due. So that's about $1400 in checks that I owe to the account that they're going to cash when I give them those policies so along with the policies I give them their premium or remittance, because it's only 30 percent of the premium. I keep 70 percent. So I only did three policies through the three oldest ones and I basically took the $1500 of the gift from Philmore and I started paying my landlord I'm covering in those policies. So I'm now two months behind on my rent to my landlord. And they just saw yesterday — they took the window out — and saw the bloody massacre of Buddy, which they feel bad, they're dog lovers and they love Buddy, so they feel really bad about it for Buddy. [00:02:52]
(pause) But a guy is putting an offer in on the condo today which (pause) the good news on that is it takes a while to get through the short sale process. It doesn't happen overnight. So I've got some time of still getting money from the tenants there. But I've got to figure out something because I'm not making enough money to eat let alone pay for my rent. [00:03:42]
So I'm meeting with Claire on Friday. Maybe she has some big game plan for the year, I don't know. (pause) If you've been following my Facebook, the firm's Facebook page, you'll see that NH Realtors, our confidence is up for the sixth straight month in a row. So foot traffic is picking up a little bit. Whether that trickles down to me at all, I don't know. (pause) [00:04:24]
For a moment I thought I was going to have to break out and tell Jess what I did. But I decided to use the rent money instead of asking her for the money. Because I just don't want her to...you know, like everything else, she's going to panic and want to take over the account. And I guess I'm going to have to talk to my dad when he comes in a week or two and see if I can just re-borrow that $8,000 from my stepmom. Not all at once because I wouldn't want the IRS to snag it. [00:05:31]
(pause) So the money situation is not very good, which you've known. (pause) I did break down and buy some groceries. If I buy groceries then I eat them all up, it's not going to last. [When I'm home and nothing to do] (ph) I eat. I was home all day yesterday passing the time.
THERAPIST: You're not out seeing people much?
CLIENT: Like who?
THERAPIST: Friends. [00:06:25]
CLIENT: I don't have any people that I consistently go out with or talk on the phone or text. I've got my one friend Phil who is a lawyer and we talk pretty frequently. He goes to some games and whatnot but he's on vacation. He's one of the lawyers who (inaudible) work for. We go for coffee every once in a while.
But then, (pause) Ian had a play date. He's gone this week. He's going to a camp from 11 to 12 every day that's well known in Andover. Right now he lives in Plymouth but they were a big Andover fan, the (inaudible), the saxophone players putting on a little musical studio camp. It's from 11 to 12 every day. [00:07:44]
So by the time I even woke up they were leaving for that and he had a play date in the afternoon and then Jess called me and I said, "Well you know, what are you guys doing (ph) for the play date?" She had to go to Target and get a bunch of formula and stuff like that. But Ian is feeling sick so he's probably not going to the thing today. I don't know whether I'm going to spend the day with him which I prefer so she can get some work done. He still has daycare today. She wasn't yesterday. (pause) I do have a letter to get out. That's about it, really, that's substantial, or that I'm motivated to do. [00:09:04]
(pause) On Sunday I hung out for quite a bit and Ian asked me if I could spend the night, a sleepover. I said, "No, I've got to go home." Then he asked his mom if he could have a sleep over. And she really didn't give a response. I kind of butted in. [No, I've got to get home.] (ph) (pause) But the look on her face wasn't...it's hard to describe the look on her face but it didn't give me the warm fuzzies. [00:10:00]
(pause) He's obsessed with one of the games on my iPhone. So I went over last night — he was sick - so because he was sick he got to play with the iPhone. Lucille (ph) pays more attention to me. She's a smart girl. When I put my coat on she starts waving. And she gets excited to see me and (pause) she brings stuff to me. Of course she wants it back. She'll give you something and then she needs it back. [00:10:59]
(pause) So, I don't know. I don't know where I'm at. (pause) I e-mailed the guy from the Credit Union to see if he wanted to get together for coffee. The guy who is our tax attorney, he has an office in Bristol as well, and he's apart of the Bristol Rotary. So he's going to take me as a guest and that might be an opportunity. I know one of the bankers already. She used to be in our E&G; offshore bank. [00:11:51]
THERAPIST: Is it (inaudible) like E&G;?
CLIENT: No, typically you get fined if you talk about business. It's an elite service oriented organization. But everybody knows what you do. Your occupation is listed on the website so you're networking with these people. Apparently they have a softball team.
Not to toot my own horn but I can hit a softball a long way. I played baseball when I was a kid. I think we talked about that. That was the start of my depression, not making my high school baseball team. I cried, which normally I didn't cry as a kid, unless my parents were beating me or something like that. (pause) They don't really beat me much. (chuckle) You've got to put in there a parent that turns to the (inaudible). [00:13:11]
THERAPIST: (chuckle) [That would be a clinical aside.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. So that's a good potential but that stuff doesn't happen overnight. That's years of commitment. There's also the Concord Rotary which my mortgage broker is in and there's probably better connections in the Concord Rotary but it would be a harder nut to crack. There's a lot of law firms in Concord, a lot of lawyers — I would guess — in the Concord Rotary, where I didn't notice a lot of lawyers in the Bristol Rotary. And my guy does tax (ph), so that's great. [00:14:13]
And of course Jess immediately pipes up when he mentions that, "Oh you should do that." I'm like, "Why don't you join the Plymouth Rotary? Why don't you do some networking yourself?" She only talks to other lawyers. If you see the way that she talks to other lawyers she knows how to network. But you put her with a group of moms and she's...you know. (pause)
At first I wanted her to make more money because that would put less pressure on me to make money for the mortgage or for the kids but now I can't even make money for myself. (pause) I've got a feeling that one of my closings is not going to happen and I'm kind of afraid to ask. It's been...I don't know we're kind of getting in...I don't know. I've just got that feeling. And it's the only one I really have in the pipeline. So I've got one buyer who's looking for a closing, looking for a house. He put an offer in, but apparently you know, if I don't hear back I assume it wasn't accepted. It could be haggling over issues. It could have been accepted but they're waiting for the inspection. I'm always out of the loop on these things. [00:16:00]
So, (pause) yeah... (pause) I'm kind of at a loss for what to do. I've been here before even in good times. It's February, but it's going to be 50 degrees tomorrow, probably hit 60. So open houses are happening. People are going to them. And hopefully Claire has a good year that trickles down to me. Hopefully she'll notice that I'm more normal. I have a feeling that it was kind of obvious to her that I wasn't quite 100 percent.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it probably was. [00:17:16]
CLIENT: The look on my face, the way I talked. Then again, I think it's she...Tracy didn't have that much business.
THERAPIST: [That's how it goes.] (ph)
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah...
THERAPIST: My impression is there are other things (inaudible) that want to help you.
CLIENT: Yeah...
THERAPIST: So to help you, she also knows she's helping Jess and the kids if it helps you. [00:18:08]
CLIENT: (pause) That's ok. I can't even...I don't really even have the money to put gas in my car because I'm waiting for my...I want to be able to pay my health insurance bills you know? And I'm afraid I'm going to have to say to Jess, "You may have to pay a little extra this month." I've got to run the numbers. I've put money out for her portion of the expenses so I'll get some of that back in a couple of days. Whether it's enough...probably $400 of the business account, and not much else. I've got to drive out to Franklin to get my teeth cleaned tomorrow, see the dentist. Got E&G; on Thursday. That's half the tank of gas right there. [00:19:33]
And hopefully whenever I get to the office there will be a check waiting for me for title work but I'm not holding my breath. I think I've got to follow up because it seems like some of these deals may have died and the deal was to split payment and take half with the attorney. But if the deal is dead...because I've got a deal back from September — end of September.
So (sigh) I've decided that I'm going to buy vegetables and fruit which is probably more expensive but... [00:20:34]
THERAPIST: When does the (inaudible)?
CLIENT: June. (pause) If I'm going to eat a lot, might as well make it something healthy. I've got some deli meat for sandwiches but... (pause) It's like I was hungry yesterday at four so I ate a salad and then Jess called and ended up eating pizza. I end up eating dinner a lot when I'm over there because I'm there for dinner. Sometimes she makes enough for everyone. Sometimes she just makes enough for the kids.
(silence from [00:21:28] to 00:22:40)
My grandmother's 87 and she refuses to walk with a cane or a walker and she lives in long term care so she's not spending away all her money on health care but she's got rent and she lives in San Jose - actually, more in the county which is more expensive than San Francisco. And she was talking with my mom about her will. My mom wants to go see her on her birthday in July but thinks she's not going to be around. I was supposed to get $3500 and there's just sort of a round robin of everybody going through her stuff and pick what you want, which I would recommend an estate sale and split the money. There are some things that my mom wants a marble table but to take it from San Jose to Dallas, you might as well just buy a new marble table. Not that I wish that my grandmother dies but... (pause) (chuckle)
(silence from [00:24:12] to 00:24:59)
And I'm hoping that this is just seasonality of my business and it's not that my business has dried up and that I'm done. I'm not looking for another bad year.
THERAPIST: Well you've told me sort of a combination of things like Ray leaving and Bristol Bank and it seems like they're having a slow (ph) year. And you're having a really hard year in a way that affected business a lot last year.
CLIENT: The woman that hooked me up at Bristol Bank, she was the branch manager - Carly in the (inaudible) center is now at Eastern Savings Bank. She keeps running into Tracy at chamber events and stuff once. She's like, "Have Cameron call me." It's like, "You're the banker. Call me." And so apparently the woman who ran the mortgages as Bristol Bank is now at Eastern Savings Bank. [00:26:20]
THERAPIST: With this where like once you have some business to send them, they're likely to start sending stuff back?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I don't know what they would do. But number one, it's a pain in the ass to switch accounts. And (pause) you know, just going through the modification and just all the crap we're going through to add one more or switch up the bank account it's just...I don't know. And you know, I mean my accounts went negative and they paid everything. Only one got hit with a fee. It was a (pause) debit card transaction and if I asked they probably would give me back the fee but she paid like five different things. And I'm on the advisory committee for Bristol Bank which could be a way for me to say, "Hey, how do I get closings? What do I have to do to get closings?" So, I'm kind of torn there. I should at least go visit Patricia.
(silence from [00:27:57] to 00:28:25)
I've always kind of had no money but there's always been some way. And that's why I would take money out of the ALTA account but I've got to stop doing that. There's no money to begin with and putting this money back in will probably take it down. $1500 will take it down a good chunk. And my landlord's nice enough to just not care about the rent. He doesn't need it so he doesn't care. And he knows I'm having financial difficulties. I made sure, when I sent him the e-mail about the window, I said that, "When I'm back on my feet financially I'll pay you guys." And he lost my check, December rent check. And that's how I ended up getting two months behind. I spent all that money. [00:29:31]
The farm, I don't know what to do there because Jess doesn't know we're still getting the farm share. I feel some commitment to start eating better. It doesn't have to be every meal but you know, eat more fruits and vegetables. Not snacks, fruits and vegetables. Eat more salads and if I'm out I can eat normally but go to a restaurant and maybe start ordering salads and stuff. I'm not going to do that on Friday. We're going to B.B.'s Grill so I'll probably get the atomic meatloaf, which may be a bad idea because I'll be sweating and that might be embarrassing.
THERAPIST: The atomic meatloaf will do that?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's pretty spicy. And I'm a sweater. That's why I did move from Louisiana to here because I just sweat so much. And when I eat spicy foods, depending if it is spicy enough, I'll sweat.
(silence from [00:30:59] to 00:31:17)
My depression group friends started meeting again on Sundays. I didn't go last Sunday but I was going to go this Sunday and we'll be driving there. They canceled. One of the guys wasn't feeling well and one of the guys Jim, who kind of organizes it, he's back to the partial program at Serenity (ph) and he's going through a depressive mode. He's like type 2 bipolar and PTSD, social anxiety, all kinds of things. And he lists his things. He's got a bunch of them. He gets money from disability but he needs someone to pay his bills for him, which he had a guy and then the guy for some reason can't do it anymore. He's looking for someone new. I almost offered to do it but I just felt like it was one more thing... (pause) [00:32:50]
Part of it's like, "Hey, I've got all this free time on my hands now." (pause) I guess I could be networking. I could be going to things. Maybe that's what I've just got to start doing, going to chamber events.
THERAPIST: Are they...is it that they are a pain in the ass or it's hard to be putting yourself out there all the time?
CLIENT: I'm shy. I mean, once I'm comfortable in a new environment, (pause) I'm sort of a clown. But getting...
THERAPIST: Take a while to get there. [00:33:54]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Jess wants to know what time I'm coming to hang out with Ian. I might as well go from here. (pause) But still, all that stuff, is just laying the ground work for business down the road.
THERAPIST: Right, if not tomorrow, the next day, or three months from now.
CLIENT: I still should do it. I still should do it. There is some value to having people know and recognize your name. (pause) How much, I don't know. [00:35:02]
THERAPIST: [Well in advising] (ph) you're...you're kind of in this for the longer haul. It would be great if there was anything you could do to make business materialize, (inaudible) but even if it's a few months away...
CLIENT: Yeah, it took me five years to build up, six years to build up to have my best year which was 2010 and I went out on my own in 2004. (pause) So that's the kind of... (pause) I just don't have motivation to do anything really. [00:36:20]
THERAPIST: Well it's hard, especially if you're feeling (ph) crappy, to put yourself out there of all the things you could do.
(pause)
CLIENT: If I'm not going to move back in with Jess then I want to find a way to make it work where I'm at now. I'm kind of happy there. There's a lot of work I could do to fix up the place. I haven't hung up anything, there are still boxes, and it's a mess. I cleaned a little bit the other day and it was actually kind of nice, you know. But I'm sleeping in my bed now. Buddy's ruining (ph) the sheets. He just gets up there and licks himself and it just gets disgusting but I figure it's just Buddy schmeg (ph) all over the bed. [00:37:42]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) doing it, take care of yourself, proving your living or whatever, is a good thing. (inaudible) thing to do.
CLIENT: I have to get my business to the point where I can afford to live where I'm at, pay some money over to the kids. I'm so far from that. (pause) My hope is that the new realtor at E&G; sends me a couple deals. I'm not expecting much but anything is really better than what I was getting from the old realtor. And this young kid, he's a go-getter. He's in the Concord Rotary and he does a lot of networking, goes to networking events. He says he's doing a lot of pre-approvals which is good news. That means people are out there looking for houses. [00:39:06]
But I know I just can't live off that. (pause) Part of 2010 being such a good year was the...what was it that gave money back to people buying houses? The homebuyer credit. But still, that was...Claire kept me busy through the end of the year.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was thinking that. Sure, in a way you're really far from being where you want to be financially, but on the other hand as I understand it, you're probably three good referral sources away from it. [00:39:58]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not that they're easy to find but...
CLIENT: That's why networking with this banker, I may not ever get any business from him but there's some value in being known. Maybe, who knows?
THERAPIST: Sure, you also don't know where you're going to...which of the people you're networking with are really going to turn out to come through. I would think.
CLIENT: Even in an e-mail — the guy who's connecting us — put that this guy, already has the attorneys he likes to use. But the guy is supposed to open five offices and bring in a bunch of loan officers and who knows. Who knows? [00:41:03]
(pause) I try and send my business to these people. (pause) I've sent enough business recently to Harry, that I can't send the next person to someone like the guy in Concord Five. I did send someone to the guy in Concord Five. I don't know whatever happened. It was a guy who I helped buy a multifamily that he was renting and he wants to condo-ize it. My guy might have told him just how difficult it's going to be to get financing to do it, because I never heard back from either one of them. Usually when you send a referral to someone they thank you, return e-mail. I always try to say, "Hey, I sent so-and-so over your way." (pause) Some people would say, "Well, if the guy's not going to reply and thank you, why would you want to bother?" It's because he had something I want. He could be the biggest asshole in the world. I've dealt with those people before, I don't care. I just need the deals. It's a volume business. Especially now I'm making less than I had been making, so it's definitely a volume business and I've got to get in with the local banks. They're driving the mortgage brokers out of the business so... (pause)
THERAPIST: We have to stop for now.
CLIENT: Kids off from school? Vacation is a scam.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) (silence) [00:43:47]
END TRANSCRIPT
