Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Thanks, again, for switching the time. (inaudible) I could have met at the (inaudible) regular time but (inaudible)
CLIENT: Oh, yes, it was fine.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: (sighs) Oh, man. (chuckles) I'm, sort of, flustered and tired today. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And (inaudible) - is today our last week for a while?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And, then - yes, - at some point in early July -
THERAPIST: You'll be back.
CLIENT: Yes, I'll be back. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes. (sighs)
THERAPIST: And - okay, I guess, it's (inaudible) - if anything comes up, and it would be helpful to talk (inaudible) while you're away, (inaudible) - and are you all set, medication-wise?
CLIENT: Yes. [00:01:00]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes, I have prescriptions to get (inaudible). So, yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, great.
CLIENT: Yes, thanks for asking, though, (chuckles) because I could, easily, have forgotten to...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...do that. (laughter)
THERAPIST: [I don't know] (ph). I don't mean to bug you about it. I know it can be tough to coordinate that stuff. And I know [you've got] one (inaudible) but I haven't heard anything else and (inaudible) -
CLIENT: Yes, we actually met again last week and it was - yes, it was good because that came up. So she gave me post-dated prescriptions.
THERAPIST: Got you.
CLIENT: So it's like you can (ph), I guess, use (ph) longer prescriptions that are refilled very easily, with the stimulants (ph).
THERAPIST: Yes. Got you.
CLIENT: (laughter)
THERAPIST: Okay. (inaudible) you were saying you were flustered?
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, there's just so much to do in the - less than a week now, before I leave. [00:02:03]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yes, so (inaudible) - I've been pretty tired because, last week, I was still - I got pretty depressed on Wednesday and Thursday and I didn't, really, get back into my freelance stuff until Friday. And, then, (chuckles) there was so much to do. And, since then, I've pulled two all-nighters and (chuckles) -
THERAPIST: Oh, my gosh.
CLIENT: (inaudible) trying (ph) to get that done. And it's been, sort of, frustrating because there were guidelines about what we were supposed to do and how long we should be taking to come up each illustration for each subsection of the chapter. [00:03:05] And, of course, I took longer than the guidelines, to do each one. But I, also, produced more examples and more (inaudible) things and guides (ph) than they had wanted. Well - (inaudible) than they had intended. Hopefully, they'll want what I give (ph) them.
And I had promised myself that I wasn't going to re-write anyone's work this time. And there were nine, larger chapters I (inaudible) - and I still did re-write one of them. (laughter) But that's better than some of the times that I've been given other people's work to look at. (pause) [00:04:00] Yes. But my boss sent me an e-mail saying that she really wants me to be more communicative and, also, deadline-focused, and not start things so soon before the deadline.
So, I mean, it's frustrating. I was hoping that, at this point, I would just have it down and it would be something I could feel good about -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - feel productive doing. And I got most of it done by the deadline, but there was a little bit that, sort of, trailed on. And the frustrating thing about that is, I lost a lot of sleep and stressed myself out to get most of it in...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...by the deadline. But, then, I've just been so tired and brain-dead since then, that I haven't finished that last, little bit.
THERAPIST: Right. Okay.
CLIENT: Even though it's not a lot of work. [00:05:00]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And I could have finished it yesterday, easily, if my brain had been in better shape. It's just making this drag on. And, even if I had failed to finished it yesterday, I could feel somewhat good about it. But...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...now, I have to finish it tonight and - I also have to clean my room and put up a craigslist ad to find a subletter for while I'm gone, and figure out the school stuff. And there were a couple of June 1st deadlines for submissions for things that I was interested in; one of them being this poem I'm working on, which isn't totally finished. But it just seems like it would be fun to [know that was] (ph) somewhere and, maybe, under a different name. I don't know. And there's, also, this newsletter called "The Virginia Woolf Miscellany," which is academic, but it's not like a serious, academic journal. [00:06:04] And they publish it - its shorter, academic style pieces, about Woolf.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And I've been, sort of, thinking about submitting to that for a while because it's not as strenuous and serious. And, on June 1st, they have a deadline for an issue that I have a paper about. And my paper is 7,000 words. And they want something that's 2,500 words. So (laughter) I have to figure out whether there's any possibility of writing something good that is 2,500 words, that is excerpted from my paper. And how to handle that, or whether I should just forget it, since I have other, higher priorities. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So this would just be something I was, sort of, doing to make me feel better about myself. (laughter) [00:07:02] And, also, possibly - I don't know - get in with Woolf (ph) scholars; be like, "Oh, I published such and such and such and such." And they might be more likely to want to talk to me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But it's like I don't know if I should be doing things to make myself feel better, when I have so many actual, important responsibilities. And, of course -
THERAPIST: Is that a time when you, sometimes, look for things to make you feel better?
CLIENT: Yes. (laughter) But, I mean, I do (inaudible) less complicated. And its [time intensive] (ph) things, that are tiring. Maybe, I could just - I don't know - eat some ice cream, which I already do. I, definitely, have eaten two cartons of ice cream in the last week. [00:08:01] (pause) But I, also, want to do these really time consuming things.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (sighs) (laughter)
THERAPIST: I wonder if it's, in part, a way of, kind of, running away from what's scary about the higher priority things. Like, getting in touch with school, I guess, would be the biggest one and, maybe, also - I don't know - getting other things done that you need to get done. [00:09:00]
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, I mean, maybe the reason that I pick legitimate-seeming things. I can't really let myself get away with thinking, "Oh, I totally need to clean the whole apartment before I do this." Although, this week, there is a reason why I have to clean my room; just so a subletter will want to stay. (chuckles) But it seems like I've gotten to the point where I don't procrastinate with things that are, totally, unrelated to my goals, which, then, means that I find things that are tangentially related to my goals, that slip under the radar.
THERAPIST: That you can, sort of, talk yourself into?
CLIENT: Yes. But the problem with those things is that they do take up a lot of time and mental energy, probably more so than these (ph) other types of things that people procrastinate with, like watching TV, or something. [00:10:00] If I were to like (ph), "Oh, I want to catch up with Mad Men, or something," that would, probably, actually, take less time than writing an article to submit to this semi-intellectual journal. (chuckles) Although, I guess, I can feel sort of virtuous, being (ph) like, "Oh, I don't watch TV or clean my room."
THERAPIST: Right. And you're doing something that, in its own right, is constructive.
CLIENT: Yes, and I can always feel like, "Wow, I'm growing from this experience." And, that, in some ways, is my main goal in life; just this large-scale goal that can justify a lot of small-scale things that I probably shouldn't be doing.
THERAPIST: What depressed you last week? I guess, I assumed those were the things we were talking about. But, I guess, I didn't know exactly what you - [00:11:00]
CLIENT: It was the things we were talking about, probably. Mainly, there was just a general attitude of intense criticism and self-loathing, after the (inaudible) meeting, which was intensified by not getting started with my freelance stuff. Every day that I sat down to do that and failed, and ended up doing something else instead, I just felt like non-functional; like I was dealing with life really terribly.
And, (pause) when I finally got started on Friday, it was the same situation; where there was a little remainder - I had done most of what I needed to do but there was a little remainder. And I knew [that we're] (ph) supposed to move on to the new assignments. But, instead, I worked really hard on the little remainder and sent that in. And since it was like - as a Word document. And since it was out of my online queue, I couldn't log any more hours for it. And I said I was just going to turn it out, get it in. But I spent five and a half hours perfecting it and then sent it in. (chuckles)
So, I mean, that's like throwing away close to $100.00, and necessitating two all-nighters, and putting off the time in which I get to my (ph) school stuff and subletting, and everything else. It was just very illogical. [00:13:01] And, when my behavior is just so, flagrantly illogical, it's really hard to feel good about the way I'm living my life. (sighs) And, I guess, on the weekend, I started to feel a little bit better for a while because the freelance stuff was going well. For something that I was doing too late, it was going very steadily.
And I was able to focus and produce a lot of writing, and that just feels good in itself. So I felt good for a while but, then, I got an e-mail from my boss saying that I would be out of communication and start things too late, and didn't seem to take the deadline seriously enough. And I, sort of, got down on myself again. [00:14:03] It wasn't a mean e-mail. But, still, any criticism...
THERAPIST: I see, yes.
CLIENT: ...just sinks (ph) in and starts swirling around in there.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (pause from [00:14:13] to 00:14:32) (sighs) I don't know - I guess I've been just really frustrated with my inability to prioritize. (pause) (sighs) And it seems like I work best when I'm not, sort of, thinking about priorities, schools, deadlines, context (ph), anything; when I'm just in this zone, where the work is the only thing that matters. [00:15:07]
THERAPIST: I have the impression that you get incredibly frustrated with yourself for not being able to work within the right constraints, whether they're deadlines or the right list of priorities or things like that; I guess those are the two main ones. But, I guess, (inaudible) is you're talking the way that, feeling out of control of those kinds of things, is maddening.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It makes you really, very angry. [00:16:02]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: At yourself. And can - you can feel, I think, kind of helpless, when it comes to dealing with that.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) Yes, it seems like situations keep pointing out to me that, on some level, the only rules that matter to me are my own rules. But I have to have a job and make money and would like to have one that leads to the kind of life that I want to lead.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And it's very frustrating that I can't seem to reconcile my smaller goals with my larger goals, because that requires accepting some degree of control from the outside world. And it's frustrating that I just have such a hard time doing that. But it means I'm not internally consistent and that I just remain inside my head, and out of touch with the outside world. And, on some level, I'd just like to remain in my head and out of touch with the outside world. But, in the world in which I have to pay rent, (chuckles) I can't -
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: (laughter) Yes, I have to protect that ability. And I have to take actions in the real world to protect my privacy, or else I'll be forced to get a job in which I'll have even less privacy. [00:18:01]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (sighs) (pause [00:18:03] to 00:18:32) It's also frustrating because this, sort of, extreme difficulty accepting outside rules, arose from some conviction that I couldn't take care of myself and that the outside world was dangerous. But that whole process has resulted in my having a really difficult time protecting the things that matter to me. [00:19:06] And it's frustrating that I can't seem to make that sink in. (pause [00:19:15] to 00:19:41)
THERAPIST: Have you been having anything going on, like the mechanism (ph) [or getting orders] (ph), or things like that?
CLIENT: Not so much in the last week. [00:20:00] I guess, last Thursday, I felt very blocked (ph) and like I couldn't write; sort of, in the way that I felt in the past, and I wasn't getting direct orders. But I still was non-functional. And, then, Friday through today, has been pretty normal. I think my main problems have been just depression and tiredness.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: But, still, my ideal working condition is just not conducive to working with any (ph) other rules. [00:21:01] Because I work best when I just clear my mind and immerse myself in each individual task and don't think about a time limit, or anything other than how best to do whatever it is that the goal is. And other considerations distract me and hamper my ability to complete (ph) (inaudible) - And, that state (ph), is definitely consistent with what the mechanisms (ph) seemed to want, which was just to seek out truth above all else.
And it would be nice if I could work productively with constraints and concerns that had nothing to do with [truth in the best possible form.] (ph) [00:22:07] Because, then, I could have done these freelance things much more quickly, and made my boss happier, and moved on to the school stuff by now. It seems like I just make everyone unhappy, (chuckles) doing what I do, although, at least they like my work. They've never said they didn't like something I did; it's just that they thought I took too long to do it. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (pause [00:22:37] to 00:23:04) (sighs) And, even, thinking about letting the outside world dictate - have more control over what I do, I get a tight feeling in my stomach. And I get a negative physical reaction to that concept. (pause [00:23:24] to 00:24:04)
THERAPIST: Are there times you've felt that way in here? I don't know - to do with like responding to something I've said?
CLIENT: (pause) Well, I wonder if sometimes - when you say things that I perceive as a potential critique of the way I'm handling things - like when I see light disturbances, I wonder if that's sort of connected. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Has that happened today?
CLIENT: No. [00:25:01]
THERAPIST: Do you have a (inaudible)?
CLIENT: My mind doesn't seem to want to find any. (chuckles) It's giving me a blank. (pause [00:25:21] to 00:25:33) Yes, I can't - (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yes. I wasn't aware of having critiqued the way you handled things.
CLIENT: I don't think you mean to or, actually, do; it's just -
THERAPIST: It, kind of, feels that way (inaudible)?
CLIENT: I think I'm always hyperaware of anything that could be criticism. So I find it where it may not, actually, be. [00:26:01]
THERAPIST: I see. (pause [00:26:03] to 00:26:22) Yes, let me know if any of those come to mind. I'm aware of wondering things about what [did this or what did that] (ph) or what happened to your - and, really, wanting to understand what's going on. But, yes (ph) - the things that I missed or (inaudible), or whatever. But, yes - I'm not aware of having felt critical (inaudible) situation you've described. [00:27:04]
CLIENT: Yes, I can't think of anything...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...that was framed as a critique. But, sometimes, and this is - I know this is really silly but, sometimes, even a question [sticks bad] (ph). And what I'm doing isn't, obviously, the right, logical thing to do. And if there's any question about it, then it's not, obviously, the truth and the right -
THERAPIST: (laughter) (inaudible)
CLIENT: (laughter) - which is - which makes conversation problematic.
THERAPIST: I could see that, I think. (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) Yes.
THERAPIST: I see. So, even, times where I've asked questions suggesting it might not have been immediately evident to me that you handled (ph) things in the only optimal way they could be handled. [00:28:06]
CLIENT: (laughter) Yes, just the ultimate, superior way. It was just like, "How could you question that?" (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) I see. All right, well, that's -
CLIENT: (laughter) But I don't - I recognize my tendency to do that. So it's not like I -
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (inaudible) slip (ph) in. And it's like, "Oh, that was actually a critique."
THERAPIST: Right. Yes.
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: - things happening.
THERAPIST: I'm hearing some subconsciousness, clearly (inaudible) (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) Oh, man. (pause [00:28:36] to 00:28:48)
THERAPIST: It does, though, I guess - this sort of back and forth between those things, make me think of a - kind of a struggle, on your part, to be safe. [00:29:02] Like, wanting to think, on one hand, that there's only one way to have handled it, which is how you've handled it as opposed to - (inaudible) handle things in different ways, or whatever. And, then, a sense of - which I'm kind of hearing you saying, "All right, Sharon (ph) (ph), come on. Clearly, there would be other ways to think about X, Y or Z." I guess it makes me think of (inaudible) wanting to feel very safe and secure or above critique.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, I want to act in the ways that has (ph) the best critique. (chuckles) And I [very much don't] (ph). I open myself to a lot of criticism by having trouble doing what the world expects of me. [00:30:07] And I, simultaneously, dread critique and go out of my way to avoid it.
THERAPIST: Yes, I can see that in, sort of, being late for a deadline, in order to write something in an unobjectionably (ph) perfect way.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, and it's frustrating that the things I do are meant to avoid it, since I consistently bring it upon myself. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: [It's just] (ph) weird that I haven't found a way to deal with that yet. And, in some ways, you could say I'm improving since - [00:31:00] I mean, when I look at my work progress now, as opposed to at the beginning of my job, there are many more instances of long flows of focused work. But it's not affecting the bottom line of getting things in by the deadline, still, even though there's improvement.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, I guess, I hope they have work for me for a while longer, so I can get to the point where I am turning things in on the deadline. Because that would just be reassuring. (pause)
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:32:01]
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) And, last week, I mentioned that I was thinking, maybe, it actually would be sort of nice to let people in more and be more social. But I've noticed a lot of resistance to that thought, as I think about, actually, doing something about it. Most of the time that actually sounds really unappealing. (pause) And, when I think about talking to people, especially people I already know, I just sort of imagine that the first thing that will happen is they'll ask what I'm doing and, then, criticize me for not - for, possibly, not going back to school. [00:33:05]
And, you know, there's some grounds for that worry, since that's happened a few times. (chuckles) But talking to people just seems like an act of inviting criticisms. (pause [00:33:24] to 00:33:33) And I'm looking forward to meeting new people at [inaudible] (ph), since they won't know anything about me. And, so, I can just tell them whatever I want. And tell them something that, hopefully, will not invite criticism and give them this framework though which to judge me, but can guard against criticism, hopefully. We'll see. [00:34:00] (pause [00:34:01] to 00:34:40)
I had a long talk with Sue; she's on vacation right now but - so I've had the apartment to myself for a little bit, which has been really nice. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Oh, good.
CLIENT: Yes, but after a while, she started asking me more about working as a writer and what that was like and, sort of, my daily responsibilities, how every day went. [00:35:09] And I could - she was, sort of, asking about the deadlines and how those worked, and saying, "Oh, wow, that sounds so stressful." Because I told her I had deadlines every day for different types of things. But I felt like she was, sort of, trying to understand why it was so hard for me to meet deadlines in general, especially with the school stuff.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And, I think, I was (ph) probably right. Sometimes I look for criticism when it's not there and...
THERAPIST: Yes, well, those seem to me like two different ulterior motives she could have had. [00:36:02] One would be to understand, because everything you said - why the deadlines were difficult to meet. And the other would be to have somebody being critical of you; I guess, either for that or, probably, trouble meeting deadlines, or something.
CLIENT: I guess I, definitely, think the first motive...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...is right. But I still, sort of, interpret that as criticism because it's an awareness of something that I do wrong. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) Is everything (inaudible) - sounds a little that way. But, maybe, even (inaudible) thing, that sounds like criticism, probably. (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) Well, I mean, that's okay. Oh, God, maybe that's why I never talk to anyone. (laughter) [00:37:03]
THERAPIST: Maybe. (laughter)
CLIENT: Yes, I felt, sort of, weird about it because I'm sure she had no idea that I was thinking that. Maybe she thought she was just talking to me about journalism and maybe she had these ulterior motives. But I wouldn't notice them because, you know, why would I? (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, I guess, I'm in a weird position, when I feel like I've caught onto someone's game, when it's really subtle and they have no idea that I've caught on. And it's unfortunate because she was just trying to understand better, something that's hard for her to understand about me. Yes, but it made me feel, sort of, bad and stressed out, even when, theoretically, it's nice for your friends to try to understand you. (laughter) [00:38:07]
THERAPIST: I guess it depends what it feels as though their motives are.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, she is someone who wants to help me. And, in some ways, that's nice and, in some ways, that's threatening, since I think some of the ways she's tried to help me in the past haven't been that - have been counterproductive.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So I, kind of, half appreciate it and half want to get her off my trail. (pause [00:38:43] to 00:39:20) And I - Oh, what?
THERAPIST: I was going to say, yes, it sounds like, mostly, you kind of want the rest of us out.
CLIENT: Yes, there's a part of me that does. (chuckles) And...
THERAPIST: And it, generally (ph), feels like we are being critical; I think, also, intrusive, with ulterior motives. [00:40:01]
CLIENT: Yes, and with the small array of people I talk to now, I trust that the ulterior motives are good motives and that helps. And intrusive, ultimately, is caring. And, at different times, these things - different facets, sort of, dominate how I interpret...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...social interaction. (sighs) But I - it's hard, because I do value interaction and conversation and connection. But, I think, there's just so many things that are like red flags for me, that are pretty normal when talking to people. [00:41:08]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause [00:41:10] to 00:41:30) And I don't like being so hypersensitive about something that I do, actually, value; that makes it more difficult to have the support that I want. (pause [00:41:47] to 00:42:21) Yes, I always feel stupid talking about the Internet but I, actually, looked at Facebook last night and got pretty upset. I'm not someone who spends a lot of time looking at it, but sometimes I do get upset by it.
And, last night, I was like - I saw a lot of people from Bulgaria (ph) - the [Bulgaria Study Abroad] (ph) program still hang out and meet up. And I saw photos and things from (ph) them and - I think, that's sort of remarkable because they're people from different programs, at Yale, who just had this one semester study abroad in common and they forged years-long friendships (inaudible)... [00:43:12]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...and go from all these different cities and states to hang out.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But having been there and not done that, I guess, sometimes, I think, "What if I had? What if I were the kind of person who did things like that?"
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I think, sometimes, that would be nice. And...
THERAPIST: It would be nice to feel a part of it, in that way?
CLIENT: Yes. And, then, I tried to imagine - I was like, "Well, but what if you were connected to all of these people and what if one them had just e-mailed you five minutes ago, you'd, actually, be stressed about it." (chuckles) And the idea of people trying to get in touch with me, or communicate with me, on a regular basis is, sort of, stressful and scary. [00:44:01]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Although, sometimes, I think it's a feeling that...
THERAPIST: I (inaudible) that's part of the fantasy, in a way; is that you would have done something like that and it would have been nice to keep in touch or to hear from people that - it would be good to feel part of something in a way that felt good.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But it [shouldn't have feeling] (ph) (inaudible) or like you don't want to deal with it.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: We're (ph) going to stop, for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But have a wonderful month. I hope it goes really well and productively and all that.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And you have a good month, too.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: And, I guess, I'll get in touch, because there's still courts (ph) that are complicating things...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I'll get in touch about when to meet...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...closer to that time.
THERAPIST: All right, that sounds good. We'll figure it all out.
CLIENT: Okay. Bye.
THERAPIST: All right, take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
