*TEXT-PV011105  29 July 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, I, I was thinking about a, (Sigh) uhm, change in mood that happened sort of gradually over the weekend, and I didn't really think much about it until today.  Uhm, and well I was just wondering, you know, especially, because when I came here I was thinking, well, I won't see FEN.  And then I was thinking about how I'd felt last week, uhm, you know, at the fact I wouldn't be seeing her.  And you know, uh, it seemed as if I could accept that, which I think I can.  But I'm wondering if this change of mood is really out of feeling how little time is left that I'll be seeing you.  I don't know, uh, (Sigh) but i, it's connected with, where I'm aware of it I, I, you know, again, it might be this is just the way it comes out.
As uhm, over the weekend MSCZ was putting up a fan that I had ordered for the kitchen, and uhm, he, I haven't completely taken care of what I want to do in the kitchen, and he always gets really annoyed if there's anything around in the kitchen at all.  And you know, I have to admit I don't keep the kitchen the best way possible.  But he always becomes particularly nasty whenever he does much of anything in there.  Because it isn't the way he'd keep it.
And so he had to be in there working, and, and it didn't really affect what he had to do.  It was just, you know, an atmosphere that he was in, that he didn't like.  And so he began to get really annoyed.  And this project took quite a, well, it didn't take so long, as much as uhm, we didn't, we were both working on it one day, because we had to get the window ready.  And uhm, he started it at a time when there wasn't very much time to do anything.  And then, on Sunday, he was going to finish it.
Uhm, and I don't know, at some point he'd decided that I'd ordered the wrong thing, and so he put it up wrong.  And now he has to redo it.  And at that point, he finally admitted that he'd, out of his annoyance at me, had made a mistake himself.  But you know, here he was, he was just very angry and nasty, and, and I was feeling the old feeling of well, he's overdoing it.  But yet, uhm, he's right, that the kitchen isn't the way it should be.  And uhm, it's one of the things that I had wanted to do before we go to PTN.
Uhm, and you know, I felt more and more of a desire to take care of it, after it got him so upset.  Because I didn't like his being so upset, and you know, I don't like it, the kitchen being the way it is.  Uhm, and, you know, it was kind of like his being so upset was my incentive to do something.  But then, uhm, I don't know, by Sunday night, he was just getting so nasty about everything, I finally said something to him about it.  Because it just seemed like, well this just can't keep going on.  And it, he, and then he just said that about the kitchen, and he also said that he was feeling very annoyed about my weight, which I know bothers him, but he hadn't said anything for awhile.
And uhm, well I don't know quite why it is, because I had felt as if I'd made quite an effort recently.  But then as I thought about it, after he mentioned my weight too, I realized, well, there were certain things I was still eating that uhm, really I shouldn't be if I really want to lose weight.  Because I was wo—, you know I, been having trouble losing, very much.  And so it did seem as if I really didn't want to, although I was thinking I wanted to.  Or I don't know, but anyhow, this was another thing that was getting him very upset.
And uhm, so anyway, today I had already planned to do certain things this week.  But because of the way MSCZ had felt, and he mentioned the bedroom too, and this yesterday.  And there wasn't a long discussion about it, it was just sort of here's why I'm annoyed, is kind of what he said.  Uhm, but it, it did make me feel added incentive to do something about the kitchen and the bedroom, and probably my weight, though it's too soon to tell about that.
And today I, uhm, decided well, I'm going to do something about the bedroom, you know, something further.  Because I, the bedroom's better.  And I felt sort of annoyed that he wasn't recognizing how much I'd done.  But I think his feeling was, it didn't matter how much I'd done, it was my inability to do it all that was bothering him.  And so I started to do some more about the bedroom today.  And maybe, you know (Laughs) maybe someday I'll get it all done, I don't know.
But what really threw me into a state of, I don't know what it is exactly, except it's sort of a depression is, the fact I do find it so hard, and I don't know why.  And uhm, I get very, I don't know, I was just thinking about how last week, well, you know, at the end there, when I as thinking about MME.  And I was thinking very much about, how can I, I don't know, it was almost like start with a clean slate and take care of the problems that arise, not bring problems to what happens next year.
And then, when I was taking care of the bedroom today, it just seemed like it was all the problems, y, you know, it wasn't really, except it's things that I've saved that uhm, I don't know, I've just lost perspective on whether it is, what I'm saving should be saved or not.  And I threw a lot out today, but still, uhm, and I didn't finish what I want to do.
But I, I know what I should be doing is throwing out everything that's left.  But I have to look through it, and you know, there's some things, well, you know, there are some things I want to save, there are some poems that I've copied down, uhm, that I like to use with the classes.  And you know, so I just have to get them into some kind of organization, a file or something, so that they're there to be used, instead of always sort of kicking around somewhere.
But uhm, I don't know, I j—, I just had this feeling that you know, it's kind of like, here they represent old problems, or old attitudes about myself, or something.  And I can't seem to quite clean the slate, and take care of it.  And, or, to change enough so that I can keep the kitchen the way I want, or to lose weight, and stay the weight I want.
Or uhm, (Pause) I don't know, I, I guess the way I was thinking about it is, it just seemed like such a reverse on the attitude I'd had last week, of I know I can if I want to enough.  Uhm, and I'd, I'd sort of switched to, can I, kind of thing.  Uhm, and even, you know, with what I was doing today, I know I can finally take care of it.  But, but maybe it will take so much effort, and time, and struggle with myself, that it just doesn't seem like it should be taking all that.  And the end result won't be worth it.
ANALYST:   So, what valuable thing are you still hoping to find in this pile?
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, I mean, I'm sure it goes back to my old way of thinking of what I need to ever be anything, be successful at anything.  And with the feeling I had today, because some of the things I was looking through, uhm, were notes I'd made on, you know, different types of activities.  Some of it even went back to when I was teaching at LKC.
And the feeling I had was very much, there might be something here that, if I throw it away I'll never think of again.  So I have to go through what's here, and decide whether it's something worthy of, you know, I don't know, noting down in such a way so that you know, the thought remains.  Or a—, a—, in any case, a feeling that if I threw this stuff out, I'd be throwing something out that I could never think of again, or get again.  And uhm, you know, some sort of a, how I'm going to be something.
ANALYST:   Umhmm.  Secret penis.  Or it's equivalent.  A talisman.
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, first I thought, well, you know, what, I was wondering, well what caused this, my going back to feeling that way.  And, and will I keep fluctuating like I, you know, feeling the way I did last week of, a certain confidence, and then feeling this way, after I stop coming.  And then that really kind of disturbs me, because I don't know, since I haven't ever tried it, how strong I'm going to be at getting myself out of this kind of state, without your help.
And then I thought of uhm, something that really kind of disturbed me.  Uhm, we took FSOZ to see XLM (an operetta) on Saturday, and right before then, F—, MSCZ had had FSOZ out.  He wanted to go see something at the RXB (a museum), and so he'd taken her.  And I had done some things at home that uhm, I had wanted to get done.  And you know, I had still felt good.  Uhm, until, when he came home, there was about an hour, we wanted FSOZ to lie down.  And in that hour he had started to do things in the kitchen, and had begun to clearly, get quite upset.  And I suppose that's when I began to change in mood, I don't know.
But then, at the XLM, everything was going well, FSOZ was pretty good, and uhm, it was quite enjoyable.  And then at the end, uhm, they had a—, the, what I had thought was just sort of the lead cas—, part of the cast up on stage.  And they had said, anybody who'd like to come up and meet them was welcome.  And they put it, everything was sort of geared toward children, you know, they didn't change the performance, but they did a few things.  The director came out and gave a little talk to the children in the audience, first, and uhm, they have a very nice attitude about hoping children will come, and so forth.
And so when they said that people could come up and meet the cast, they put it in the framework of, you know, all children from 6 to 60, you know, that kind of a thing.  And uhm, so it was clear that they thought the children might enjoy it, but also anybody was welcome.  Uhm, and I had a, I had quite a conflict.  You know, first it just seemed like, well FSOZ would go up.  And then I thought, well why wouldn't I go up, and you know, I mean, MSCZ's choice, whether he goes up or not.  But why did I think of it as just something that FSO would do?
And I realize I did—, and I didn't go up in the end, although I felt very torn.  And I think it was that uhm, I would have liked to have been able to, but I felt, well, embarrassed isn't quite right.  But uhm, uh, self-conscious, or something.  And I was really bothered by my, if I wanted to go up, why didn't I do it?
And then it was sort of funny.  After the struggle, which I'd felt I lost with myself, uhm, when we went out the rest of the cast, and you know, sort of the chorus were standing out in the lobby of the theater in such a way that you had to go through them.  And it was kind of like a receiving line.  Uhm, and that wasn't, I me—, you know, at first I was shocked, thinking, well here I couldn't do it, up on the stage where the main cast was.  And then, you know, here I'm going to go through it anyway, with the rest.
And it wasn't so bad, I don't know, I me—, I did—, I didn't expect anything of myself that time, because it wasn't something that I had chosen to do, or not.  And I guess when I was thinking about going up on stage, I was thinking, well I should be able to say something, and I don't know what to say, or uhm, you know, somehow project myself, I guess.  And I didn't know how to do it.
And uhm, and also, a—, a—, there was a feeling of uh, y—, there's the main character's being able to be on stage and act and sing, in a way that I knew I never, you know, I mean it just, it's not something that would ever be in my experience.  So I look up to them in a way.  And uhm, well I don't know, I just, you know, it was something I would have liked to have been able to do, and I couldn't do it.
Uhm, (2-minute silence) well, then I went back to thinking about today and the feeling I had.  And uhm, I think part of it too was a frustration, because I felt, you know, just like the frustration at that, you know, point when I wanted to go up onto the stage and meet the cast and I couldn't quite get up, you know, the courage, or forget myself enough to do what I wanted to do, or something, I don't know exactly why I found that I just couldn't do it.
But uhm, today also I, I think part of it was this frustration of knowing I was spending time doing something that was just so ridiculous to be spending time doing.  You know, I think I, I me—, it wasn't the only thing I did today, but uhm, well, I spent a good amount of time on it, in any case.  And I was just thinking of it now, that there are some books that I have wanted to read for 2 years, or something like that, I mean, obviously, I have wanted to read them enough.  But uhm, there's something that I had just decided if I don't read them this summer, I know I never will.  And I would like to read them.  And I could have spent the time I spent on these things in the bedroom reading one of these books.  And they're not the kind of thing that I want to read when I'm tired at night.
Uhm, and FSOZ wasn't home, she played with FYHZ today.  So I could have done that.  That's why I chose to do what I was doing, too, because I, if I'm going to do it, I had to do it when FSOZ wasn't around.  But uhm, the fact that, you know, it was even there to have to be done, and that I had to spend time doing it.
ANALYST:   So, what you seem to be saying, is that, if you weren't spending your time looking in these piles for a penis that isn't really there, and that you know won't be there, and that when you think about it, seems ridiculous, you could have been doing something else.  In between you were thinking, wondering, why you couldn't go up on the stage.  And what you say is, well, you wouldn't have anything to show.
PATIENT:  Mm.
ANALYST:   So, again, it sounds like the same theme.
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, then I guess I wonder (Sigh) did I really not feel this way last week, when I think of having had a certain confidence, a certain daring to know certain things, and know I know them.  When, you know, before I'd also known that I (Laughs) wouldn't face that I knew them.  Uhm, I don't know, just a certain confidence.  And, and then to feel this way, I, I guess I'm wondering, have I ever really stopped feeling this way?
ANALYST:   Well, I think the answer to that is clear.  Eh, it stops, and then your wish shows up in some new form.
PATIENT:  (Pause)
ANALYST:   I had a hunch that maybe last week, there was another form, uh, this wish took.  Remember, you were having fantasies about ah, our meeting after we finish.  You'd be in the field, and I would become your teacher, and we would share this interest.  And I have a hunch that that's just another f, form of the same idea.  That well, I didn't give you a penis while you were here, and what you need, and so then, you know, maybe you can get it that way, afterwards.
PATIENT:  Yeah, in fact I even was thinking about that this weekend.  I had quite a different feeling than I'd had here.  Because I just, well it was another one of those things, where I just knew that if that became a reality, I knew what I would be like, and I knew that's not what I want to be like.  And, and so I just knew I wouldn't want it.  Uhm, because I, I'd just imagine myself, you know, my same old approach of not really thinking, but looking up to you to think.  And to uhm, guide me, that I wouldn't be doing any sort of directing of myself.  And I'd become the little girlish, uhm, you know, trying to be sort of appealing in a girlish kind of a way.  I, uhm, well just, you know, all my old kind of behavior and feeling about men.  And uhm, so anyway, when I was thinking about it this weekend, I just, I stopped hoping that that would happen, because I just didn't like the idea of what I was sure would be what would happen, if it did.
Uhm, (Pause, Sigh) and I guess another thing I was thinking about were these, you know, things in the bedroom, was that (Sigh) if I can ever find the time, and it's kind of hard, because, because I do feel as if I'm not doing much, so I never like giving the time to this.  But if, and I can't seem to just throw everything out, without even looking at it, or anything.  And I don't know what in the end I'll ever do.  But if I could ever finally, maybe this is part of my, the fallacy of my thinking, to think I can ever finally take care of it, without the attitude of just throwing it out without even looking.  But you know, I, I have this feeling, if I could ever get it all taken care of, then I wouldn't do it again.  But I don't know if that's true or not.  (2-minute silence)
Well, uhm, and, I guess I'm also just feeling — and maybe this is part of the depression today — was that when the feeling does go away, then when it comes back again, it just seems twice as depressing.  And (Sigh) you know, sort of debilitating, really.  And uhm, you know, uh, then I get a feeling of, just never get free of it.  (Pause)
And I don't, you know, and then I think, well is this all part of just anticipating next week, and you know, clinging to you, and I don't know it, probably, to some extent.  But also I, knowing what I knew last week, or knowing I knew something, you know, that at this point, maybe I don't feel I know so well anymore.  Uhm, I don't think it's an attempt on my part to say you haven't done something that I'd wanted you to do, or that you're supposed to do, or something like that.  But uhm, (Sigh) but maybe it is, I don't know, it ju—, it's ju—, it's sort of as if whether I came or not, it seems as if I'd get these feelings.  And then what I, I suppose I'm particularly worried about, is if I can handle these feelings on my own.  (2-minute silence)
Well, and then I was thinking that (Sigh) the feeling I have about these things that still remain in the bedroom to be taken care of, is that I would love, i, in one way I would love to be able to just throw them out.  Because I, the thought of all the time that will need to be spent on them, if I don't, uhm, is just so depressing.  But on the other hand, I don't know whether I can quite get up the strength to throw them out, and take the chance that I can get along without it.  Or you know, (Sigh) I don't know, I mean I think of something th—, at one point I had had a lot of stuff that I had saved from everything I'd ever wrote, while I was in college, and some things I'd saved from high school.  And uh, (Sigh) gradually I threw all that out.  You know, first I threw some things out, and kept some.  And then I threw some more out and kept some.  And then finally I threw, I think, everything out.
And then there was, there was some point, a time wh—, when I wished I'd kept, there was one paper I'd written that uhm, MSCZ and I were talking about.  I don't even remember what the subject of it was, but we were talking about that subject.  And I was thinking, well, I wrote a paper about it, I could look it up.  Because it wa—, it was, I guess, a research paper.  Something that would take awhile to, you know, gather the same amount of information.  And then I'd realized I had thrown it out, and I was sorry at first.
And now when I think about it, I think but, you know, I, what I can't balance yet, is, is the (Sigh) you know, short term wishing I'd kept something, knowing that it, you know, I had something that I threw out, and wishing I'd kept it, worth all the time I spend on these things when I do keep them, so that I can't do anything else.  And, you know, when it is so infrequent that I will then feel, well I wish I had it.
And I don't know whether (Laughs), you know, it's a real practical wish I had something I threw out, or if it's just, you know, that the times when I would look for this penis that doesn't exist, would be so infrequent that it's not worth having all this the d—, I don't know, it just almost a, as if by having it, it makes me feel a certain way that I might not otherwise be feeling.
ANALYST:   Yeah, and I think the way it makes you feel is that well, someday, somehow, you'll think of what it is and go to it, and there will be the magical thing that will make all the difference.  And that's the same idea.  If you persist, if you stick with it, if you just hold on, some day you'll find this penis.  Or its equivalent.  That will do the trick.  I think it's that feeling that makes it so hard to just dump this stuff.
PATIENT:  (3-minute silence) Well i—, (Sigh) I guess I've just been sort of thinking about the way I fluctuate back and forth.  You know, I mean, actually feeling the fluctuation right now.  And then I thought of uhm, there were a couple of things that I clipped out of magazines and, you know, that kind of a thing, and that I had had uhm, saved, I don't know exactly why.  You know, some things I threw out because I couldn't any lon—, any longer remember why I hadn't thrown them out before.  And at least I was able to throw them out without trying to figure out why had I kept them.
But uhm, then there were some things that I just knew I had been reading, and then put aside, without any thought of throwing out or not.  And you know, that had to be disposed of.  And one was the ZDH Quarterly.  And, and so (Sigh) when I first saw it, I thought, well g—, did I ever finish reading this, or not.  And I was looking at it.
And then I remembered there'd been an article — and this is probably why I k—, had kept it, because I've tried to be pretty good about throwing magazines away, because that used to be one of the major, you know, that used to be worse than things I'd keep from school, all the magazines I wouldn't throw away.  And uh, there was an article in it by somebody that I knew vaguely, because she was in FYC's class, on essentially, you know, finding herself more as a female, and an individual.  And how her marriage had changed, and it was really quite a nicely done article.  And it was done in answer to something that the Quarterly had put out asking for responses to.  I do—, she wasn't militantly saying, you know, here I am.
And I had read it at the time, and been interested, partly because I knew who it was.  And then just because her change wa sort of the direction I was going in, but she was ahead of me.  And so I read it again today, and then I wanted to keep it.  And I don't know, you know, just now I was thinking, well why am I keeping it?
Because at this point, I feel as if MSCZ and I have come enough in the direction that she went in, so that we're finding our own way.  You know, knowing that, what happened with her, no longer could even be considered a model for me.  And maybe that's why I originally, I was attracted to it because somehow, you know, here was the model that, here is, you know, something I can guide myself on, or something like that.
Uhm, and so then I think, but the only thing that I still don't have, or at least certainly, I don't have today, that came across in that article, was a certain confidence that she feels, and that you know, she knows — she may not know where she'll be tomorrow — but she knows, you know, what are the guidelines of her life.  And uh, well, just somehow, I guess I still feel there is something there to be held out as a model.
Or you know, uh, uhm, well, you know, it made me think of the way I've been looking at FYSI lately, and wondering what is the answer that she would have for me, and how she's adjusted to being a woman, or has accepted it, or has liked it, or whatever.  And I think I have, it's the same kind of feeling for this article.
And you know, on the one hand, it seems like w—, I don't know, if what I'm looking for there is exactly the same thing as you know, i, in these piles that I've had for so long.  Uhm, or not, or you know, because, I think it's similar, because I have this feeling, I don't really need that article, except that it made me feel good to read it.  Because it was nicely written, and, I don't know, it was s—, you know, sort of like a sharing of a, of a type of an experience.  And, except that she's experienced it more.  And uhm, (Sniff) but then, it should be enough to have read it uhm, and throw it out.
ANALYST:   Yeah, again, so that you see the secret thing behind it must be that uhm, this woman, like FYSI, that what really confidence means, and self-assurance, really must only truly come about because somewhere hidden is their secret penis.  They've got one hidden somewhere.  If you just hang on to this, you know, maybe it will show up.  Maybe you'll find it.  I think it's the same idea.
PATIENT:  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Even though, in other ways you know that that's not so.
PATIENT:  (2-minute silence)  Well, then I th—, I think I had a question, I don't know.  I got to thinking about the report I wrote on FDD, and I don't know, mi—, it might have some other, completely entirely different connection that I think.  But I think, I started with the question, well, you know, if I stop all this looking, which has, certainly, taken up a lot of my time, you know, then wh—, (Laughs) kind of like, what do I do with my time?  Uhm, how does one spend one's time, if one isn't looking for something like a secret penis?
And uhm, I don't know, it just seems a—, there's so many ways I could think that I have spent my time like that, that I wonder, how much time I have ever spent in any other way.  And uh, so then it really is a question, wh, what do you do with your time, when you're not spending it that way.  And, you know, look how much time I might end up having.  And maybe this is partly why I wanted to clean the house, next year.  I don't know quite why I suddenly had that desire to.  Uhm, other than the fact that MSCZ felt very strongly about it, because it would help us save money, and then, and then I would be helping him in a way that was important to him.
But, you know, I mean, I had felt so strongly one way, and then suddenly the other.  It, I have been wondering if it is an effort to be busy, so I don't have this problem of how do I spend my time.  Uhm —
ANALYST:   (Laughs) You mean, as if that's the only worthwhile thing in the world?  It's like there couldn't be anything left.  But you just mentioned some things.  There's books you want to read, there must be other things.
PATIENT:  Yeah, but I've always looked upon reading as an escape, stealing time away from doing what I, you know, then again, it's should be doing.  I don't know what I should be doing.  But uhm, (Sigh, Silence) but, but you know what you said, I mean I don't laugh at it.  Because it's really troubling me that it does seem as if I have for so long thought of, you know, looking in some way or other, for some form of a penis, that that is my, I me—, I don't ha—, you know, at this point I'm not thinking of it as worthwhile any longer.  But that's partly what's frustrating, because I can't quite stop doing it.  But I don't th—, see it as worthwhile, because I really know it's not.  But I don't have other, I don't know what to call it, pursuits, or, you know, things I want to do that I do feel are worthwhile.  You know, it's kind of like there's a void.  Uhm —
ANALYST:   Mm, well, I suspect that's the problem with a clean slate.  When you've got a clean slate, it's a void.
PATIENT:  Mm.
ANALYST:   Our time's up.
