Five Approaches to Linda: Session Two, Multimodal Therapy
FIVE APPROACHES TO LINDA
SESSION 2
INTRODUCTION
The unique aspect to this program involving inclusion of an actress who portrayed the role of the patient with the same problem each day at the five day presentation.  Students and participants obtained the first hand view of how each individual theorist dealt from their own prospective with the patient and her particular problems.  The case of Linda was developed to be a fixed role for this particular presentation.  Any deviation that occurs during the course of her sessions with these various therapists, occurred as a result of what the particular therapist chose to focus on as they facilitated the sessions, as opposed to any deliberate deviation by the actress herself. 
The following session features Therapist #2, who is using Multimodal Therapy.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi.  I've got some information about you and ahh, I want you to—before I give you an idea of what I have gleaned from reading the information, I get some idea from you as to what you would think would be like one or two main issues that you want to work on.  Anything that stands out in your mind?
CLIENT: Uhmm.  Well, basically ahh, I want to try to improve my relationship with my husband and my children.
THERAPIST: Okay.  You wanna… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I mean… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: … improve your relationship with the husband and children.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: That's one of the goals.  Great.  Okay.  What?  Anything else?
CLIENT: And ahh, I guess, uhmm, resolve issues with my ah, father.
THERAPIST: Resolve issues.  You are referring to the fact that at the moment he's very ill.  You mean that before he dies you want to kind of make peace?  So what does "resolve issues" mean there?
CLIENT: I don't know if it would mean making peace. Ahh, it's just that uhm, my father and I have not been really close through the years and ahh, I just ah, wanna make sure that ahh, before his time is up and before he leaves, I, I say what I feel is important to be said.
THERAPIST: I see.  I see.  Okay.  Okay.  Those seem to me very sensible goals.  I want to share a couple of impressions I got upon reading the material I was given and you can tell me how you react to this.  The one impression I caught was that you seem to have a lot of regrets from the past things you didn't do, that you wished were different that come what—different way.  And immediately, my reaction to that is that the past is over.  Having regrets doesn't do anything.  What we want to do is learn from it.  And that's why I was glad to hear you say, "I want to improve the relationship with my husband and children," because that's now.  Here and now and in the future.  So that's action.  So that's sound good.  So when I say, "Gee, I'd like to see you just drop the regrets 'cause that's a waste of time."  How do you react to that statement?
CLIENT: That you want me to drop the regrets?
THERAPIST: Drop the regrets.
CLIENT: Ahh, I'm not sure that regret is a good word.  I don't think that really applies to me.  I, I don't regret.  Ahh, I feel badly ahh, about things but I don't regret anything that I can recall.
THERAPIST: I may have got the wrong impression or something like, "Gee, I regret that I wasn't there more for my kids and I regret that I don't have as good a relationship with them as my husband does and I regret that I wasn't perhaps, as close with my husband as other couples," or that kind of a thing.  So that's why I used "regret".  But that maybe the wrong word, you think?
CLIENT: I think it's, ahh, I think it's an accurate word.  I think, I think it's an appropriate word that would be the easiest to use.  But I don't think it's really that I regret.  I feel, I feel badly that ahh, ahh, our lives together weren't the way I feel possibly they, they should or could have been.  But I've just been too busy with things, other things.
THERAPIST: But now and into the future, it can be better, you said that ten years from now you're not gonna say, "Gee, I feel badly that as of 1996, I didn't.  Now is the time to take action."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay.  That, of course, is positive and constructive and that's, that's something we want  to achieve.  See, what I'm doing now is, I'm saying we want to be sure that we have the same goals in mind.  There's no point in me having your goal, that's not your goal?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So we have to agree that's a goal we wanna work towards that… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: … okay?  That was the one thing. (sighs)  And the other, again, the impression I got from reading this.  You must correct me if I'm wrong.
CLIENT: I will.
THERAPIST: Was that in many situations, you are not as assertive as I think you need to be that you kind of don't take action.  You're sort of hanging back a bit and I could talk about your Dad which is so important.  "I want to get some closure" is what it sounded like and I would say, "Okay, go for it."  Let's, let's—If necessary, we can rehearse you.  We can role play.  There are all kinds of things we can do that will guide your interactions and say you'd become the kind of person who goes for what she wants.  You don't sit on the sidelines.  Would that be right to say that to some extent you've kind of held back?  You've been too passive in some ways or not?  How do you see that?
CLIENT: (deep sighs)  In every aspect of my life?
THERAPIST: Oh, no, no, no.  Never in every.  Just in some important ones.
CLIENT: I don't think I've held back in ahh—I may have held back with my father.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Ahh, not telling him what I thought of him at that time. Ahh, I may have held back ahh, with my own—with myself, but I don't think I really have held back in other areas.
THERAPIST: Okay… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I don't think… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I guess, I'm saying—I'm sorry… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: … there was such a thing asserting myself.  I mean… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  But people in general.
CLIENT: Basically, I don't have a lot of—I don't, I don't do very much with other people unless it applies with my work.  I'm not a social person.
THERAPIST: But you'd like to be or that's something you're comfortable with?  'Cause nobody says you have to be if you don't want to be?
CLIENT: Uhmm, I don't know.  I don't know.  I've never been that way so I don't know if I would, you know, if I have missed something.  I, I don't know that.  Unless I expose myself to that I guess, and try to, try to be more ah, social and see how it feels.  See how it worked in my life.
THERAPIST: Well, that's a very good attitude.  Experiment 'til you try things on for size.  Then make of this a shot.  "Let me try this out.  See if I like it or if I don't like it.  If I like it, great.  If I don't, okay, I can always retreat back to what I wanna be."  So some experimentation.  But now, let me ask you another question.  As I was scanning through the material, one thing that was absent was, well, I quote, "The sensory modality."  Now that means, you know, most of the joys in life come through what we see, smell, taste, feel and hear. (sighs)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And I have no idea of what you are like in that regard.  What you would like to see and to smell, taste, feel and hear.  You know, what kind of a, a sensory being you are.  Can you just fill me in on that?  It's like saying, "What are the things you like in that area?"
CLIENT: Well, the things I'd like to see?
THERAPIST: To see.  Let's tackle that.
CLIENT: Well, you mean, specifically or generally?
THERAPIST: Generally and specifically.
CLIENT: Ahh, specifically what, what makes me feel happy inside is uhm, uhmm, watching laughter.
THERAPIST: Other people laughing?
CLIENT: Watching laughter.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah.  Ahh, I like nature.  I love the beauty in nature.  I love the colors.
THERAPIST: Oh, you are a photographer, right?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So you're really, okay.
CLIENT: Ahh, ahh, let's just say hearing—I love music.  I like all kinds of music.  Ahh… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But you listen to a lot… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: … (crosstalk) it allows you to escape.
THERAPIST: … of music?
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: You listen to a lot of music?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  A lot.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Uhm, the things I like to touch are anything soft.  I like texture, though.  Texture is interesting, no matter what it is.  It's just interesting.  Ah, animals because they're warm and usually soft and alive.
THERAPIST: Got pets?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Do you have pets?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: What have you got?
CLIENT: We have a dog.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And ah, let see, taste that Cadbury. (laughs)  I like a lot of things, too.  You know… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Any special foods and things that you like?
CLIENT: Uhhm, I like hot foods.  Spicy… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What any… spicy? 
CLIENT: … spicy.  Spicy.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  And, and what negative sensations, you know, I'm thinking of like any tension, any kind of pains and so forth, aches and then negative plan?
CLIENT: I absolutely hate, ahh, arguing.  I hate loud voices.  I hate insincere, insincere, uhm, anything.  You know, I study people a lot.  I watched.  That's why I don't really have much (laughs) to do with them.  I just don't like insincerity.  I think there's just enough—a lot of it.  Ah, I don't like people making fools out of other people.  I don't—we need to be passionate of life. Uhm…
THERAPIST: Now what happens when you come across that?  You see, what I'm looking for here, we come back to this assertiveness thing again.  Somebody's being honory (ph) or really nasty, putting somebody down, loud.  What, what's your typical response in that situation?  I'd like you shrink away from it or might you go ride in and say, "Hey, knock that off!"
CLIENT: Do I know the people or?
THERAPIST: Let's take it that you know them first.
CLIENT: Well, actually, if I know both parties… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: … I would probably, ahh, watch to see how that one or other person reacts to—and then based it on that, my reaction.  If the person is hurt and ah, ah, doesn't really react, if they don't feel strong or they don't—aren't assertive or aren't, ah—I'd be more inclined to maybe, say something to that person after. (coughs)  But ah, the person doing it, I just for now have anything more to do with him as far as ah, conversation or anything because to me, they've displayed a side of them that I really have no use for in people.
THERAPIST: Said you sound like you are a person who values honesty and compassion, sincerity and decency.  This seems to be very high up on your list of values.
CLIENT: Very much. Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And when that doesn't come about, you say, "I'm gonna distance myself.  Who needs this."  Right?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay.  That ties into the assertiveness.  What are the—I have a quick question: I've noticed that you do a lot of exercise, they say, is that right?
CLIENT: Yes, I do. Uhmm… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Alright, tell me about that what you do?  You, you walk in the park and what else?
CLIENT: Oh.  Well, I've joined a gym, uhm, joined several gyms actually, because ahh, one thing or another ahh, about the various gyms that I belonged to, doesn't make me happy.  So I quit one and I joined another… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Looking for a perfect gym.  Okay.
CLIENT: (sighs) (laughs) and ah, I do a lot of just the things at home.  Uhmm, you know, I have some dumbbells and stationary bike and… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What are the senses that we stop from them, that feels good, I guess.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And are you good with your body in general?  Do you eat sensibly… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Very much… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: … rest… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: … I try to.  I try to.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So you do take care of yourself?
CLIENT: Yes, I do. Uhmm.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, I get a sort of a general flavor.  You've said a little about you in some of these areas.  Now, we come back to this thing about—okay, you want to have a better relationship with husband and the children… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: … now and into the future.  Said that ten years and now you can look back and say, "Boy, this was a great decade!  I mean, we really are getting on fabulously."  That's, that's a go?
CLIENT: That would be very nice.
THERAPIST: And my belief is, by the way, it's in your hands.  See, I really think that we are the architects of our lives, far more than most people realize.  That, that this is something we can do.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And, and on how are we going to do it is that we have to have a design.  And the whole idea of the therapy is two heads are better than one.  And either, that we put our heads together and we plan, it's gonna come out better than if one doesn't on one side.  That's the whole idea behind it.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Are you comfortable on that motion?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, let's start with perhaps, husband first.  If you can tell me some of the negatives and then we can plan.  Well, let's see.  What can we do to improve that?  Like, like what's going on now in that relationship?
CLIENT: (sighs) Not much, actually.  Not much.  We don't really—we don't talk.  We don't ah, exchange ideas or thoughts or concerns or worries or things like that.  Just, he's busy doing his things, his thing.   He talks with the boys… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I guess, the… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: … a lot.
THERAPIST: … the $64,000 question, I-I was talking earlier about, you know, we take action.  So here you are saying, "You know what, I'd like my husband and I to talk, communicate, interact.  We don't do it.  We don't do it."  That means Linda is also not doing something.  So what would happen if you said, "We are gonna talk"?  So, when you go home this evening, you say to your husband, "Honey, one of the things I want us to do: step one is I really want us to sit down and talk more; I want us to schedule just, oh, ten minutes after dinner every night, that's all.  Just ten minutes, so we can just talk and catch up and share."  What's he likely to say?
CLIENT: Ahh, "Can we do it later?  I've got something else I have to do."
THERAPIST: That, that could be the response?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.  I want you to just sort of role play that for a bit.  I'm getting to be you, of course, I wanna just see something.  You see, you try and be as mis-accurate as you can.  Say, he's just sick, come to it a little bit later.  Okay.
CLIENT: Who am I, me?
THERAPIST: Your husband.  Okay.
CLIENT: I'm my husband… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay.
====
THERAPIST: And you—I'm Linda and you've just said to me "Come to it a little bit later, 'cause there's something I wanna do."  I'm Linda.  "Honey, I, I cannot get across to you but this is very important.  This is not just some little idle thing, but I feel very strongly that one of the things I would like is for us to be able to talk and communicate and be closer.  This is something that is very important."
CLIENT: "It is important, but what it is that you—what is it that you want to know?  What is it that you wanna to talk about?"
THERAPIST: "Well, I'll tell you what I'd like to know.  For example, I'd like to know just a simple thing like, what did you do today?  If we can just talk about that."
CLIENT: "Linda, I really don't have time for this.  I've got, I've got so many things I have to do.  Can we do this later?"
THERAPIST: "Well, you see what's happening?" What's your husband name?
CLIENT: Ron.
THERAPIST: "Ron, here's what's happening right now.  You think that I'm just being some pesky female who's bugging you.  Things are more important than this.  And I'm picking that up as, 'I've got more important things, do things that are more important than what you want and what you feel and what our marriage is,' and I think you mustn't underestimate that.  This is very important.  I'm really talking about something for both of us in the future.  We will be closer.  We'll be having a better relationship and this is the start.  And ah, so let's not (inaudible 00:16:24).  I think if you give me the next two hours, I could see you say, 'Gee, I've got these things.  I want ten minutes.'  You think you can spare ten minutes?"
CLIENT: "You know, Linda, I'm not the one with the problem.  I'm fine.  Whatever is bothering you, it's not bothering me."
THERAPIST: "You think we have a good, close relationship that we communicate enough, that we share enough that we talk ?  You're quite happy at that level?"
CLIENT: "I'm fine."
THERAPIST: (sighs) "Well, that makes me very sad, you see, because then I was hoping you would say, 'I'm, I'm with you, Linda.  I, I would like to be closer.  I agree with you, but I'm a little unhappy to hear you say 'I'm fine.  I don't need to talk anymore than we do.  I don't need to be any closer than we are.  You have a problem.  Go solve your problem.'  Whereas, the problem is our relationship I cannot solve it without your help.  So maybe what you might do than just humor me and, and let's see if that'll help me solve the problem, you see."
CLIENT: "You know, if you are around more often, maybe we would have more to talk about.  But right now, I've got things to do."
THERAPIST: "If I was around more often.  That's important.  And I, I want to respect that.  I think, I have in the past, we tend to go our separate ways.  I've been doing my thing.  You've been in you're thing.  And I don't think that that's healthy for the rest of our life.  You know, the kids are gonna be leaving home already one's in college and ah, yes, I want to be around more.  I mean, is this something that's honest, you'd like me to be around more so we could talk and share?"
CLIENT: "Well, yes.  Yes."
THERAPIST: "Okay.  I'm, I'm going to make a commitment to you.  And that is, I am going to be around more.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: "I'm sincere about that, Ron."
CLIENT: I don't feel that way.  I, as Linda.
THERAPIST: Oh, now you're talking—we're out of role.  Okay.  That, that's a... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I, as Linda, I don't want to be around.  I don't want to—this is, this is the conflict I haven't seen.  I don't want to just bury myself in the walls of my home.
THERAPIST: Oh, no, no, no.  Being around more doesn't mean that you now abandon everything and then all or non-way.  Now all of a sudden, you are nothing but a, a homemaker, housewife who's buried in the walls and just sitting and waiting for great guard run to descend upon her.  Now, we're talking about "being around more."  And, and what has "more" mean?  And how a more a day, half an hour more but more, this can be so that we have some leverage.  I mean, does that, does that feel okay?
CLIENT: Yeah.  I think that being around more for ah, for me.  I need to be around more here, here.  Not around more physically so much.  I need to know that he cares about me, that he cares about me.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Okay.
CLIENT: And the kids.  That's...  (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: And the kids care about you or that he cares about the kids?  How much do you think... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: ... Oh, he cares about the children.
THERAPIST: ... Oh, you wanted the kids care about you?
CLIENT: They care about each other.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: The children and he are fine.  It's me and them.  That's the problem.
THERAPIST: Okay, okay.
CLIENT: Ah, I can be there but it's not like I'm there.  Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yes, because up until now there seems to be like a parallelism.  You are here and some are—he and the kids are there.  And this, there's not this that's going on.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And so your question at the moment is even more important, "Do they care about me?  How much do my kids care about me?  How much does my husband care?"  Right?  This seems... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ... to be the question.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And do you have any guess, I mean, if we had a psychic x-ray and we could zoom in and have a look, what would we see, would we see, or that don't really care about you?  Or they care very little?  Or, hey, you know what, they care a whole heck of a lot?  What do you think you'll see?
CLIENT: See?  I think it's very difficult to answer the questions that you're asking, because to look into my children's heads to see how they feel about me, ah, I, I don't really—I can't really ahh, I don't—I can't really depend on what anyone would say, what they would say to me.  It's what they do.  It's what, it's what they do that speaks to me.
THERAPIST: And what is it they do? What, what do you think is... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: They, they—when they have a, ahh, ah, wanna, wanna spend a Saturday doing something they, they run to ask my husband to go and do it with them.  Ahh, they all—they, they do their sports together, they do their television programming together, they—if I wanted to go to a festival or something, that has—that does not interest the kids.  You know, to craft things or something else.  They, they aren't interested in that and neither is my husband.  They yell if they wanna go and play ahh, ahh, play uh, tennis or if they wanna go fishing or if they wanna do something like that, it's out the door and they're gone.  They don't ask me to go along.  I... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Would you like to?  I mean, would you like to go fishing or something?
CLIENT: No.  I don't think I would.  I've never been asked.  I've never had a fishing rod of my own.  I don't know. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Okay.  So that's, that's something to think about.  I just got a thought into my head.  And that was like let's say I had your, your kids.  And yeah, and I said to them, ahh, "What, what do you think about your mother?"  I mean, let's, let's get this clear.  I mean, what's going on here?  Would they say something like, "Oh, we'd love to have more to do with her, but she's just not interested," I'm sort of guessing that might be an answer.  "Sure, we'd love to have Mom around more.  But we'd never think of asking her because we know she's gonna say, 'No.'" Or, or what would they say to that?  What do you think?
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: No?
CLIENT: I don't think they'd say that.
THERAPIST: What would they say?  "We don't want her"?
CLIENT: I don't think they'd say that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  I just don't think that they would say that.  I, uhm, what would they say?  "Mom's probably too interested in her work" or something like that.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like, well, "She's not really interested in, in what we are doing.  She just won't get interest in that."  You see, that's what it sounds like.  But, but, let me tell you what this leads to, immediately, whatever be possible, I like to have people present instead of guessing.  So my question to you is what would happen if we decided to schedule on appointment, that I would meet with you and Ron and the two boys?  And the five of us would talk about these issues.
CLIENT: Well, my husband doesn't know that I'm here.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: He doesn't know that I'm doing this.  So...
THERAPIST: Why doesn't he know?  What would his attitude be if he knew?
CLIENT: "Why are you doing that when there's nothing wrong?"
THERAPIST: Okay.  And, and if you said, "Obviously, there's something wrong.  Why wouldn't I be doing that, Ron?  I feel unhappy.  I, I feel I want closeness.  I am sad about certain things in the past.  I don't want to repeat them in the future.  I want a much closer bond with you and the kids that I've never enjoyed.  That's why I'm in therapy.  And the therapist here would like to see us all that he can help us best to us all.  Not that he wanted you to keep coming every single week, but if he could meet with you and the boys just once and twice, and me, that might help things."
CLIENT: Well, I don't think the boys will really be interested.  Number one, ahh, I don't think they would be interested in doing it.  Actually, they are at the age now where they're going to be off on their own.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And that my oldest doesn't really have lot of contact, you know, with the family.  His younger brother ah, you know, when he's home—unless he's home, but as far as when he's at school, ah, he's very involved in school.  When he's home, he's with his—they're doing their thing.  But as far as helping out the situation that might be happening now between my husband and me, and my trying to reestablish some kind of a relationship with them, I just don't think that they're—they would be interested in that.
THERAPIST: I'm interested.  Okay, you used the word "interested."  See?   Could—I'm saying how could they care less if they're interested?  It, it's a matter here that, you know, when I come back to this question or for this kind of assertiveness when you are entitled to make certain requests.  You as a woman, as a mother, as a wife, as a human being, are entitled to say, "Look, I'm asking you to do me a favor.  I, I—this is important to me and you're being there might be helpful to me.  And I'm not asking you to come and do this every single week of your life."  You see?  That you are entitled to make that request as a person... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: ... and as, Oh, they wouldn't be interested.  Okay.  Too bad.  They can't do something for their Mom.  But when the children, "Send a fish if they come to see my shrink," you see.
CLIENT: (laughs) Now, that would go, that would be a positive— that would be very—yeah, they would like that.  I'm sure.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Come and see the psychiatrist and then go in fishing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  Why not?  It's a change, change of scenery.
CLIENT: Uhmm.
THERAPIST: (laughs) Bring the shrink, all of us fishing.  We can all talk about this, you know, as well.  I mean, these are all kinds of options, you see.  But I'm mean, (laughs) I'm serious in the sense that they think that I'm picking up here, unless I'm misreading this.  This is kind of a reticence.  How nice if they came and said, "You know, Mom, why don't we all go and see a therapist so that we can get some closure?  You know, we are going to leave you the emptiness then the things happened to be as good, so let's all go."  You're so bravo, great idea.  That's still gonna happen.  So you again take action.  See?  A, a theme that I'm, I'm getting to with you is the same.  I want to see you be in the driver's seat.  If you think and if you'd like, look, I, I don't know about you, of course, my belief is that it would be helpful.  If I had Ron and the boys in here with you, I believe that I could get things going, that would get some answers, we get some closure and then that would speed things up enormously towards the goal of the closeness that you spoke about husband and children, even as kids are growing up. (murmurs) Now, that would make things better.  And I'm saying, if you agree with me, if you can see the logic, let's go for it.
CLIENT: Oh, I, I would, I would love to see that happen.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: What I have to do?
THERAPIST: Which I mean, would you be willing to say to Ron, "Ron, I wanna share something with you.  I've been to a therapist, had a couple of sessions.  And the reason I've gone is I just feel very unhappy about all the things that I've been feeling depressed lately, and I know you think there's no problem and it's silly ah, and when the therapist said that he'd like you and the boys to come along for a couple of sessions, I said you wouldn't come.  They wouldn't be interested and, and the therapist said, 'I think that would be very helpful to you' and he said to me that I'm entitled to ask this of you, it's not asking too much and it could be very useful, ahh, so how about it Ron?  I mean, would you be willing to give that a shot?"
CLIENT: I can try that.
THERAPIST: Okay.  I mean, 'cause I think that would be useful and it'll go places.  Let me—we can talk about it again a little bit later.  I-I'm still just trying to get a kind of an overview of what you and I can do together that would achieve the goal that we set out to achieve—want to achieve here, okay? (sighs)  I have another question, just how depressed are you?  Uhmm, one of the things that we could do is to give you a, a depression inventory and get a measure of, of, of course—one of the things that came up that you feel kind of sad, and, and got depressed.  Is that true?
CLIENT: Maybe it's depression.  I'm not sure what depression really is.  But I, I do feel sad a lot.  Aahh, you know, it doesn't seem to be much that I'm really enthusiastic about.
THERAPIST: Some kind of blah lots of the time, is it?
CLIENT: Uh-uh.
THERAPIST: Any problem sleeping?  Do you sleep okay?
CLIENT: No, I don't.  I don't.  I, I'm very restless at night and ahh, of course, the dream that I've told you.
THERAPIST: Right.  That was quite a nightmare.
CLIENT: Yes.  So, I don't really sleep well, very well.
THERAPIST: And your appetite is okay?
CLIENT: It's okay.  It's alright.
THERAPIST: The weight, is your weight constant to all?
CLIENT: No.  I'm too heavy.
THERAPIST: Too heavy?  You wanna loose weight?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  I'd like to lose about ten pounds.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: That's why you exercise. (laughs)
CLIENT: Well, that's one of the reasons.
THERAPIST: I see.  Uhmmm, is there anytime of day that you feel worse in other times?  Is there any kind of a pattern like, uhhm, worse in the night, so worse in the morning to (inaudible 00:29:54)?
CLIENT: I think a lot of times in the evenings.
THERAPIST: You feel worse?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Any idea why that might be?
CLIENT: Well, not enough.  I'm—if I'm not taking a walk and ahh, I can walk in the neighborhood and I see ahh, you know, other people, other families doing things together.  They're working in the yard or maybe the whole family is taking a walk together, or see, ahh, families in cars going—or husbands and wives or even just people together and I feel so ahh, so alone.  I'm lonely.
THERAPIST: Okay.  I would just make a comment about that.  Uhmm, we often do see these things and we imagine that everything's so rosy, the grass is greener.  Just look at this couple working together in the garden, look at this couple driving the car, etc.  Now, I've got a special microphone concealed.  And you hear a hum-ding knockdown argument going on in this couple that you, "Boy, I really envy them."  And we tune in to this one, "Ah boy, this is incredible."  What you see, you'll be amazed, how often things look so wonderful... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: ... but they're not. Ahh just, just remember that the next time you think that it may not be what you think it is.
CLIENT: Oh, I understand that and I can certainly read faces of people who are arguing.  But when people look happy, those few, that are out there, that it's something that you wish you have—I wish I had... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Make a list not wish.  Let's get it.  So I wanna ask you the question, you say to Ron, "Ron, you know what?  I'd like us to take a walk together.  I'm sick of walking on my own.  I would like my husband's company.  It's good for you.  It's good for me."  That's what you gonna say.
CLIENT: Well, he—we used to do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: We used to walk.  We used to do things together.  We used to go out for dinner and take walks together and talk.  But we just sort of...(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Then what happened?
CLIENT: Well, I guess I became very ahh, involved in my work and the kids got older and he built up the big boys.  He naturally, you know, (sighs) took up ahh, took time with them and did ahh, things together and as they get older, were just like buddies, I guess, and ahh, there was no place for me, ahh, after some time, so...
THERAPIST: Interesting.  It just sort of, of a flash which maybe irrelevant.  But I thought, gee, what if you had a girl and a boy?
CLIENT: Ahh.  Yeah.  I have thought about that a lot... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What if you had two girls?  I wonder if it would be different, you see.  But however, it seems as though, that there was this drifting apart.  And that's enough with that.  You're saying, "Let's not—start getting together."  And right now, Ron is, you say, used to doing that.  Then we're gonna start hauling him in for his own good.  Because I think he's gonna find that if you get back to doing things together, walking together, communicating, etc., he's gonna be happier.  He's gonna turn around and say to you, "I'm a lot happier."
CLIENT: I don't know that he's not happy now.  He's never talked about not being happy.
THERAPIST: But that's why I'd like to get him in, you see.  I'd like to find out what he would really say if I start putting things to him.  I'd be surprised if he said to me, "Hey, Man, I'm, I'm pretty happy.  I don't want anything to change.  I want things going just the way they are.  I'm perfectly content."  I'd be very surprised.  I mean, it's possible, but I think it's unlikely.  But so that's why I keep coming back, I'd like Ron in here.  You see, I more and more want this SOB in here so I could really get to the nitty-gritty with him.  Uhmm, okay.  So, so we want more of this togetherness and we want you to again be more active in initiating it.  And the depression side that we were talking about feeling blunt, feeling bad in the evenings —of course, you begin to make comparisons —would go if you were walking with the guy.  I mean, right away this is gonna be a lot better.  Uhhm, because one of the thoughts I had was this, another problem I saw you mention, that you tend to obsess a lot.  You tend to go over things a lot in your mind, is that right?
CLIENT: Oh, I do that.  Yes.
THERAPIST: Uhmm, whether or not this is necessary, I'm not sure, but there are a lot of therapists who feel that, like Prozac can help that heck of a lot.  That if somebody's on Prozac while working on these things, that it gives a bit energy and the kind of control that they get things together and then they come off of the Prozac slowly.  I don't know how you feel about medication and the pros, cons, prejudices.
CLIENT: I don't.  The only thing that I'd like to take is my vitamins.  I don't really approve of medication.
THERAPIST: So you're not happy of the idea of something like Prozac?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: I wouldn't take anything like that.
THERAPIST: You, you say you would not take it?
CLIENT: No, I wouldn't.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Well, I mean, I don't see that this is necessary.  Some people, it's really necessary.  It's what some people—it's like saying they're diabetic, but they won't take insulin.  You know, they have their choice.  But in your case, I mean, that's an option.  I, we, we, we can drop that.  Uhm, I-I, I'm back to this theme about getting this togetherness going on the family for...  Switching not to far, tell me now that, again, what it is you want to accomplish?
CLIENT: Well, you see my father's terminal.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And he was a, ahh, (deep breaths) he was a son of a bitch as we were growing up.  And I think he treated my mother terribly.  And he was never kind.  The way I feel, he should have been kind to us kids and ahh, he—after my mother died, there was no compassion, there, there was no lovingness or warmth for us.  And ahh, I really grew to not really like him.  So there was no real connection with him at all.  So now, of course, that he's dying, I do feel the obligation since I'm the only girl to take care of him.  And I do that because I feel it's the responsible thing to do.  But I have, I have no feelings for him and when it's over ah, I pay the bills.  That's it.
THERAPIST: You almost sensed that you were saying, "Somehow I should have feelings."
THERAPIST: Well, the thing of it is, you see.  When my mother passed away when I was a little girl, I was a teenager, I, I've never got the chance to say to her the things that I wanted to say in retrospect, the things I wish I could have said to her.  And now that I'm older and I've been through more and I understand more, ah, I don't want my father to go without my saying things that I feel I need to say.
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: "Where the hell were you when I needed you?"
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Like that.  But I also wanna tell him that as a, a grown-up person, children, I understand that you get involved with adult things like making a living and other problems.  Maybe he had helped the problems that I wasn't aware of.  I mean, you know, I grew up just not really like him.  I just wanted to know that I appreciate what he did to—he kept us all alive, really.
THERAPIST: Such a mixed bag, of course, as always, these positives and negatives.  It sounds to me, from your description you, you were telling me earlier on how important it is for you to be with people who are caring and compassionate and sincere and sensitive.  And the people are not that way, you distance yourself from.  It sounds as they—this man were not your father, you would have absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with him.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And with that sort of a person.  But because he is your biological father, there's a certain obligation and you are kind enough to do what has to be done.  That for you to have feelings wouldn't make much sense to me.  Of course, where, where are the feelings to come from?  The feelings would come from the acts of kindness and caring, compassion.  If they were not there, what should you feel?  But you are, nevertheless, kind enough to do the decent thing.  So, so that's one thing.  But how do you feel about that?  What I've just said?
CLIENT: Were your—that I'm kind enough to just take on the responsibility, even if I don't... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: And also that you don't have to feel anything and to make sense that you would distant yourself if you want your father?
CLIENT: I don't know.  I don't know how I'd feel about that.  I feel that's accurate.
THERAPIST: Okay.  (deep breaths) See, that line that really got you upset was "Where the hell were you when I needed you?"  (Silent) And then you gave the answer which was, "Hey, we kinda do the best we can and ahh, I guess the guy had other priorities," etc., so you now want to say to him, "Look I, I'm grateful to you for keeping the roof over my head," so to speak, ah, "But ah, I sure as heck wasted you were the man who'd be more caring, kind and compassionate to me and ahh, and to my late mother."  That seems to be what you wanna say to the guy?
CLIENT: I do.  But I don't wanna say anything that's gonna make him feel—Ahh, maybe I should but on my own, I don't wanna say anything to him to make him feel badly about himself, especially at this time.  If it, if I would have had this thought to do this years ago and he was in good health, I could say the things and I wouldn't care if I hurt him.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I don't wanna say hurtful things now.  You know, I don't want him to go with that.  I mean, the suffering that he's going through right now is quite enough.
THERAPIST: So you just got he's come out this?
CLIENT: Well, I could look at it that way about—I could look at that way, but maybe.
THERAPIST: See?  'Cause I'm not sure what it is that would be satisfying to you.  'Cause earlier it sounded as if you were gonna say to him, "Look, where the hell were you when I needed you?  You were a lousy father, etc. etc., etc.," and I (inaudible 00:41:31) to do that.  And I understand that.  I mean, what, what it's gonna mean to you?.  And on the other hand, you want to also say, "You know, there was some good things about you.  You know, you were not totally bad.  You were an SOB (inaudible 00:41:48) a hundred percent, maybe 90 percent.  And, and I'm studying out (inaudible 00:41:53) achieve well.  What's that gonna achieve really the thing that I would want to see you inside having worked it through, whether you say, whether you don't say.  It's like you know where it stands.  And, and that's again the past and the heck with it.  You—But one of the thoughts I had was that there's a certain distance that's come between you and the men in your life.  Starting with your father who inflicted that upon you, and then followed by Ron and the kids, where there's that, that distance.  And again, I've come to the present and the future.  We don't want that to be the story of your life.  We don't want you to be a woman in her 80's and says, "Boy, I never was close, really close with any guy.  Not with my husband or my kids."  We want you to say, "I have some distance to begin with, but boy, were we close over the last next (ph) years."  You see?  And that's wonderful.  And that's in your hands and that's what we have to work for.
CLIENT: I can understand that.  But what you're saying is that I'm going to have to be the one to do the work.   I'm gonna have to be the one to do all of the giving, all of the doing.  And I, what I do and what I give is gonna be dependent on what they're willing to give to me.  If they're not willing to give off their selves back, I'm not going to continue to beat my head up against the wall.
THERAPIST: If I have the magic psychic x-ray again and I could zoom in with their telemetry device into their souls and get a print out and look at it and say to you, "Gee, I have a bad news.  Looks to me as that they don't give a damn about you."  It's all gonna be one-sided.  I'd say, "Forget about it.  If that's the case, "Split, man.  You're young and you're attractive.  There are other guys out there.  Forget about it.  Get divorce."  You see.  On the other hand of the print out showed me, you initiate because you are the one that's somewhat more sensitive and caring.  You initiate and you'll get back in space.  Go for it.  We'll be done, know the answer.  That's why I need them in here.  But my guess is, from the little that I've heard, that it'll work.  That's my guess.  And if it doesn't work, "Hey, we have to cut bait."  There's the fishing analogy.  But we come back to this thing about, you gonna do it all.  It's not like, it's all gonna be you riding up the stream and the others would be your reluctant passengers.  Now, you're gonna start the process.  And they're out and going to start the pitchin'.  Not all up to you. (silent)   How do you feel about that?.
CLIENT: If that will be, I understand what you're saying.
THERAPIST: But you see, the point I'm making here is a point again, that I've said in the beginning.  We are in control.  We choose many of the things that happen.  And that, and we can do it.  And yes, that's the woman that says, "This is what I want.  This is one of my objectives."  And I'd say, "Great.  Sounds like a great objective."  Now, start it.  How are we gonna get it going?  How are we gonna start?  And you say, "Do I have to start it?"  And I'm saying, "Yeah.  You start it.  'Cause the way the cookie crumbled, they at this point are out there.  Probably, not even realizing what they're missing.  Okay?  So you are the initiator.  Great, a day better than start playing ball.  I had—we have to see to .  Now, what I'm curious about is, is how you are responding to this, because, you see, I started to get a feeling as that, "Boy, I'm really, I'm really rowing now.  I'm, I'm pushing you.  I, I've got you in my boat and I'm rowing furiously, saying, 'This is where we've got to go,'  I'm not sure if I've got a reluctant passenger or, or if I've got a true ally here."
CLIENT: Oh, of course, that's why I'm here.  You know, I want to, I want to try to make things better at home.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Uhm, I am as wish I would've come, you know, a few years ago.  Instead of waiting to this time when boys are so old, especially, ah, they've all gotten to the ages they are.  They're very ahh, healthy.  They're very ahh well-adjusted.  They do well in school.  Ahh, I'm not so sure that they even gonna understand that there's anything wrong.  Ahh, they survived very well.  Ahh, are they gonna take ahh, an inner mission in their—where they are to check (ph) for me?
THERAPIST: We don't know.  But you know, I've seen many instances of this kind.  Well, I've had a family coming, for example, and the kids had said, "Mama, I never knew you cared?  I, I'm really glad to hear that you want that because this is what we want, too."  And we just kept doing.  I think was, you seemed to be content as far as we could tell and we were.  But that's great.  It may not work the way we think it may, but by the way, my thinking is that you have a 19-year old and a 17-year old.  So, they're ready to stop moving on that you and Ron, are far more significant in having a good closeness.  And, and the kids thing will follow.  But then you agree with me that maybe you and Ron are the pivotal point?
CLIENT: I think so.  I think we're the key right now.
THERAPIST: Right.  Right.  So you know what I'm thinking?  That instead of involving the kids right now, if we could at least involve Ron in a couple of sessions, you know, and get him in and see where he's at.  Then we can play our cards from there.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You would be willing?
CLIENT: Well, I would like that if we could get him in here.  
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I can try.
THERAPIST: Now, what I was asking you about, in terms of the way you and I work together.  I mean, this is our second session, right?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And it's too kind of early, and the very important thing in therapy is that the therapist and the client really are on the same team.  You know, that, that there is trust and, and the sense that you have is that I genuinely have your best interest at heart and I want the best for you and that I'll do everything in my professional capacity to aid in the bet.  You need to feel that.  If you don't feel that way then, then one would say, "Gee, it's not gonna work well."  See, I say I, I wasn't sure 'cause I, I've been coming on pretty strong in this issue.  It's my feeling.&lt; /&gt;
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And, and you might just be being polite with me and say, "Boy, I wanna get the hell out of here and go see another therapist."  You see, I don't know how hard it stands.  I need you to be honest with me.  How, how do you find this?
CLIENT: Well, I had thought about that.
THERAPIST: You had thought about seeing another therapist?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: (laughs) And how are the other therapists be different?
CLIENT: I don't know.  I just feel that, ahh, I don't know.  You, you seemed to be ahh, you seemed to be putting it off a lot on me ahh, to, to initiate with my husband and my ahh, children and I, I guess I, I don't know what to do with that.  It's like you want me to pull something from somewhere and do it, and I'm, I don't have it in me.  That's what I think.
THERAPIST: I see.  Okay.  I don't want you to do it.  I want us to do it.  See, I wanna be on your team…  (crosstalk).
CLIENT: Will you come home with me and talk to Ron?
THERAPIST: I hope you're willing to do that.  Yes. (laughs)  I mean, if, if he is being absolutely stupid and pig-headed, I'm, I'm happy to hop into my car and ahh, arrive and say, "Let me introduce myself to you.  You SOB," You know, quite like that.  You know, and have him come on in.  Sure.  I mean, ahh, that's why I will say anything with him in my professional power.  Anything that is legal, moral and ethical, I'll do it.  I will not get the Mafia hit man to, to take him out to see me. (laughs)  So I don't want you to feel that I'm, I'm suddenly putting everything on you.  But I am saying, I think that you need to initiate.  Yeah.  Given the fact that you have these admirable feelings.  The other thing that, the reason I'm doing this is, you know, correct me if I'm wrong, my sense of you is that you've got some very good strengths and that you are bright and that you've got a lot going for you.  I wouldn't say this if I'm treating another person whom I see, "Oh boy, this person is a half a basket case or something."  I don't normally suggest this.  But I, I don't see you in that light.  Am I wrong?
CLIENT: Uhhm, well, I think you're pretty right.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So the sense was, I think this woman can do this. So let's go for it.
CLIENT: I think it's, it's in—whatever it is that I need is there.  It's in me.  It's just that I, and I think its, it's allowing me to trust other people's ahh, reaction to what it is I've got to say.  And that's—I like that, I like trusting other people.  I don't know that I don't trust myself because a long time ago someone said to me ah, "You have to like being alone with yourself… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: … you have to like that.  And I, I did it for a long time.  Like being with myself.
THERAPIST: Now you do?
CLIENT: Yeah.  I've grown to really—it's like that I don't have to worry about any disappointments, any rejections.
THERAPIST: Say, if you went to Ron and you said to Ron what I'm suggesting and he'd say to you, "Oh, leave me alone with this rubbish.  I mean, I'm not gonna go near any therapist.  You're crazy.  You go."  I mean, forget it.  The ultimate rejection, "Forget it."  You wouldn't feel rejected?  You can handle that?
CLIENT: He would say like that.  Yeah.
THERAPIST: What would happen?
CLIENT: I'd probably come to see you and tell you what he said.
THERAPIST: Okay. (coughs)  But you wouldn't be devastated?
CLIENT: No.  'Cause that's exactly what I'm expecting him to say. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah?  Okay.  If that's what'll happen.  Well, by the way, I think that before you ask him, I want us to rehearse the way it will be presented.  You see, 'cause I think it's important that you would say to him, "This is something that's very important to me.  And in a marriage, what's important to one partner is important to the other.  Whether it is or not, it is important.  Of course, we are in the same boat.  So I'm hoping that you will see the wisdom of, of doing this."  And, and now you present it that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I want to see a husband who absolutely refused to coming.  And the wife came back and we put our heads together.  What should we do?  And we act with it.  I called him and I said, "I meet with your wife, I understand that she'd mentioned this to you."  I said to him, "You know, frankly, I'm, I'm very worried."  And I hanged up.  Now my reasoning went as follows:  If he loves her, he's gonna be concerned.  "What, what's this guy talking about?"  If he hates her, he's gonna be curious.  "What's the good news? (laughs)  Let me go and find out."  You see?  And the guy called me back and he said,  "Well, I mean, you can't just leave me hanging."  I said, "Well, let, let's have an appointment.  We can talk about it."  And he came in.  And, and that's why I hooked him in.  You see?  Once, once I've got him, then I start reading him in like, like marlin fish, you see?  But your point that—I, I don't think I've ever actually gone to the house.  But I'd be willing to do that.  If I, if I encounter somebody who's being really pig-headed.
CLIENT: We might try that, that little trick that you've just mentioned?
THERAPIST: What if it's necessary, whatever trick we, we can try that.  There are plenty of tricks in the tray, you know.  But okay, so what I'm glad about is we're, we're of the same mind as like, okay, our next step is to get Ron in, by hook or by crook. (laughs)  And then see whether if he takes us.  And then the next step after that is to see—now, do we want to involve the boys?  What do we learn from Ron?  How are things going?  And we can talk about—I'm still not sure about the thing with your Dad that maybe we could look at that as well in, in another session a bit more clearly.  The feeling I got from you was, it's always stand you need to come to terms with the inside.  But what you say or don't say to him, at this point, doesn't seem as relevant as you're just coming to terms of what's inside by saying, "Okay, he was an SOB.  I did the best I could and I do what I have to do, but I don't have to feel anything in particular."
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: No, that, that's the kind of thing if you feel that way.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  See, I think that if I can get this result with Ron, because he has such a, ahh—he's so important to the boys, that, that would all fall into place.
THERAPIST: Could be.  He's like (inaudible 00:56:04:02) (crosstalk)
CLIENT: If he would understand, what it is that I'm needing and we could work it out, then I'm sure that he would talk to the boys and—about it, and ah, yeah.  (door closes)  That I don't think we would have to even bring them.
THERAPIST: You maybe right.  You maybe right.  Okay, so now, before we end our session today, can, can I be sure of one thing: that you are going to go home, you're gonna say to Ron, "By the way, I've had a couple of sessions with this therapist and uhm, one of the things I'm very interested in is really making sure that you and I have a better relationship, re-catching some of the things we used to have.  And this is very important to me.  And ah, even if it's not important to you, I'd like you to do me a favor and just ah, come and meet with this guy who said he really felt that he would need your inputs…" by the way, it's very useful.  Instead of making him feel that we're holing him in because he's some kind of a nutcase, "The therapist said he needs your side of the story.  If he's to help me, he needs your help.  You see, I'm asking him to help me."  And that, that might be better for his male ego, if you would put it that way… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST:  "And so he asked if we could schedule an appointment for the two of us to come in."  Or maybe, for that, if even Ron if wants to come in on his own, I could meet with him man to man and kinda get, get his side of the story, if you, if he preferred that.  But one way or the other, I want him in here, you see.
CLIENT: Do you fish?
THERAPIST: No, but I can learn. (laughs)
CLIENT: He may meet with you, if you're willing to go out with him one Saturday morning. (laughs)
THERAPIST: There you go.
CLIENT: I can—I'll talk to him.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Good.  So I'm trying to think what we should do.  I think what we should do is, I'll send a should-be (ph) schedule, an actual appointment or do we wanna wait for you to talk to him, so we know his time schedule so we can do something which is convenient to him and you?
CLIENT: Hmm.  It's up to him.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So I will then ah, wait for further instructions.  Okay?
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: You feel I care about that?  Are you, are you trying to do that?  Is it alright?
CLIENT: I can do that.
THERAPIST: Okay.  To be continued.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Good.
END TRANSCRIPT
