*TEXT-PV010330  01 May 1970
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (silence)  I was thinking about, well, 2 things.  One was, uhm, I suppose because I've just come in, I'm thinking about being late and—.  It was a day we di—, we had an unusual schedule today, and I had certain things I had to clean up before I left.  But I could have—, and FYLR helped me throughout most of it, but then she obviously wanted to go and—.  It was at a point where there wasn't that much more to do but it was time consuming.  And I, I was thinking I can push myself and do it fast enough so I could get finished in time to leave with time enough to get here.  And yet in a way I think I knew I really couldn't.  And I, I don't know, I was just wondering why I decided to not ask FYLR to stay and help me on that last part.  Because she—, even though she obviously wanted to go, she indicated she would stay.  She didn't say, "Well, I'll do one of those for you," she just was cutting out some big trees the boys painted for the scenery for our play.  But, uhm, she kind of said, "Oh, you're going to have to cut those out," because I had to get them off the table so the men could clean.  And she said it in such a way that indicated to me she would stay if I asked her to.  And I didn't.  And I don't know whether I chose not to because I thought it would be better to let her go if she wanted and risk being late or just why I—.  (pause)
It is something I've always found hard when, uhm—, and particularly with FYLR is always this way when—, and sometimes with FEIZ when she would be in a hurry to go, I would find it very hard to ask them to do more things.  I'd just think I'll do it myself.  And I don't know whether it's because I think, either I'll win them over by letting them go, or I would antagonize them if I asked them to stay, or just what it is.  But anyway, then when I was coming down on the subway, uhm, I was thinking, I think in terms of, since I am late I have to start right away and—.  So I started thinking of what I assumed I'd think when I got here.  Because it was something that was on my mind all yesterday after I left.  When y_, after you said that it was interesting I was saying what everybody else was going to—, or talking about other people's reactions to my being pregnant, but not really saying much about my own which is really the only one I know, or at least have a—, I mean it's the one I could know best.  And all last night, too, I—, we had to go to a, uhm, faculty party for LKC, so it was not possible to think about it that much, but whenever I did think about it, I just couldn't get anywhere.
And then com—, when I was thinking on the subway (sniff)  I don't know, first it was just like always; I couldn't get anywhere.  And then I just had this very quick imagining of having a child and it was very frightening.  And all I could think of then was that if I—, once I have this child, I'll have to, I don't know if exactly prove myself.  But here I've been so critical of my mother and how she didn't do things for me, and how she was a bad mother and—.  So it would be like a test for me.  Could I be a good mother, or am I going to be a bad mother, too.  And it seemed like more than I could face.  Or just that it seems my tendencies are to be like my mother and be a bad mother, too.  And I don't know if—, what—, how this fits in that I do keep thinking, "Well, there must be something wrong."  That either I'm not really pregnant or else something will go wrong.  And when I say it now, I wonder if it's because I really want it so much that I think something could happen.  (pause)
But I think if I ever start feeling happy at the thought, then immediately I get this, that other feeling.  Being frightened because I don't think I can meet something that I am going to have to face when I have a child.  (pause)
It seems like when the—, then the next thing I thought was, I don't know, I sometimes it seems like it might be even more than just taking care of the child but—.  I mean it would be part of having a child and being home, but just all the aspects of being home and taking care of a house, too, and—.  Eh, which would mean I think I'm afraid of functioning just as a woman.  Because in my job I could function as anything I wanted.  (pause)
And when I think of just that, I mean taking care of a child, taking care of a home, and whatever else I might start doing, I start wondering if I'm going to be able to be happy doing that.  I don't think I was always that happy working.  But, I don't know, somehow I think of—, when I'm picturing being home as if it would be even a gloomier kind of existence and—.  At least that I would make it that or feel it.  I don't know, and then everything would be kind of dragging me down, dragging everybody else around me down, and I would generate that unhappy feeling that (hesitates) my mother always told me I was generating at home.  Which, I don't know—, she didn't generate a happy feeling so I think I picked up something from her and—. Or from my parents or—.  I mean I don't think it was just me. Uh, I don't know, I don't believe I'm un—, I would be unhappy no matter what had happened to me as a child and—.  So it—, agai—, I suppose again it's like being afraid I'll be like my mother and create the same thing my mother created.  (silence)
And I noticed, too, I sort of—, I was trying to get at it when I talked about that question I asked MSCZ on Thursday night, but—.  I knew MSCZ would be pleased, which he was. And he's—, he was anyway last night, I don't know how long it'll last, or how often he'd, he'll feel this way.  But he was the way I've noticed men sometimes are of being very demonstrative to me, because he is feeling happy and I'm part of th—, I mean the child's in me.  And so it's necessary for me to continue to carry it, in order for him to have this child.  And I don't know, in a way, I know I'm not—, he can't separate me from the fact that now I'm carrying his child, too, but—.  Somehow it (exhales) seemed I wanted to see it that way, that what—, all he cared about now was the child and it wasn't really me except as sort of the receptacle for this child until it's born.  And that then these feelings will go to the child itself, which is where they're really directed.  And I don't know maybe that's what I'm afraid of.  (pause)
Except when I think about what MSCZ's like, when I'm being rational, I guess, about it, I don't think that this would happen.  Because he's just not—.  He wants something from me, and if I can give it to him, I think he'll very strongly toward me no matter what—, how many children we had and how fond he was of them.  But then again if I don't give it to him, he could direct all his feelings to the child.  And I don't know maybe again I'm afraid I can't give him what he wants and—.  Then there'll be this third person that can take things away fr—, his feelings away from me.  He won't have to put up with me any more.  (pause)
ANALYST:  That feels very real to you about MSCZ, doesn't it?  And this fear that you just described.  Y_ you say it's irrational, but—.
PATIENT:  No, I ha—, well I just thought of it here.  I didn't—.  But I think when I—, now that I say it that— (pause), I don't know, it doesn't even seem irrational after I say it.  It seems very possible.  Well, mainly because it's based on if I don't give him the kind of love he wants, kind of feeling in return.  And I haven't given it to him certainly consistently.  I think I sometimes have.  And then—, I mean these last few, well, since March, the end of March anyway I definitely haven't been giving it to him for a whole period of time.  And I suppose what I keep asking is what if I can't and—.  I don't what it means that I sometimes have and now I'm not.  Or—.  I mean both feelings seem real when I'm feeling them, but then you wonder when you go to such extremes, which feeling is true?  (pause)
 And I don't know, it just, if I start imagining my being unable to give him what he wants by the time we do have the child, (deep breath) I can just see that the child becomes some kind of a pawn between us that—.  I mean he would turn to the child, I think, for feelings that he needs to get.  And I can see where I might use that, using the child to get back at him somehow.  (pause)
I don't know.  And then everything—, all I can think of is the whole atmosphere then would be hate and that somehow is what I think I grew up in.  Very subtly hidden, but it—, I mean it was still there.  (pause)
 And I think of—, I mean It's very real to me just because of my experiences as a teacher, that there are periods where I've noticed my classes are worse with each other in terms of fighting and arguing and not getting along.  And some of the pressures are not mine.  They're coming from the school, and I'm just sort of feeling under them as much as the boys are.  But it also means that—, I mean—, and I think sometimes I do create pressures because of my idea of how I'm going to prove myself as a teacher and—.  In either case I can't—, even if I'm thinking this is terribly hard for the boys, and I know that this atmosphere is coming from me, that I'm making them be this way, I still am demanding.  And I can't be generous and understanding, and I don't know, somehow—.  It becomes an atmosphere of hate, even if I, eh, I don't feel as if I'm—.  I mean sometimes I'm aware of hating the boys or hating individual boys or hating certain situations that they're part of, but even when I'm not it—, it certainly isn't a loving atmosphere.  (3-minute silence)
I was first thinking that here I—, for a long time now have thought about, certainly in terms of school and when I've seen the boys fighting and being angry at each other that it's coming from something I'm creating, too, or how demanding I'm being on them, and yet it, it—, I still will do whatever I'm doing.  I don't know, maybe I'm better, maybe I'll let up sooner or something.  But somehow I feel as if I don't really change.  And so it made me wonder, if knowing this, and sort of foreseeing it's a possibility just in my own family, whether or not that would help me avoid it and—.  Then I was just thinking that, of this last month, and, and how I've been feeling toward MSCZ, and it just seems that that feeling has to change first.
ANALYST:  That's a very good description of the way you've really sounded here all week.  As though you, well, the way you—, the way you approach coming here and, uh, today even coming late and, uh.  So it all has to sound to me as though you're feeling, well you feel miserable and you feel kind of like that you're worried about, uh, all the things you mentioned, but there's nothing you can do about it.  There's—, you don't, uhm, sound as though you come to me to help you work it out or understand it.  It's much more the feeling you just described, as though, "Well, this is the way it is," and you're stuck with it.  (pause)
And it also occurs to me that that's almost the spirit in which you have talked about the whole idea of being pregnant, or even getting pregnant.  Uh, as though it just kind of happened to you, and you had nothing to do with it, and there was nothing you can do.  Same quality.
PATIENT:  (pause)  Well, it is true that—, and I know when I was talking to MSCZ Thursday, I don't know, it seems like there's more than that. But lately I have had—, been thinking more that I'm coming here and I'm talking and you're asking me questions, but I have to work out the solution for myself.  And I don't see how I can get at one.  I don't really still understand things, and—.  So then that leaves me feeling, "Well, here's where I am,"  and I don't know what to do, and I don't see how I can change.  So I suppose in that sense I haven't been thinking of coming here and your helping me.  But I think I sti—, well, in a way I think I do, because I kept thinking also when I was talking to MSCZ, if he would just be patient.  Right now I seem to be at a point where I'm blocking out your help, blocking out thinking things I'm feeling.  I mean I know I stop sometimes and don't get at what I'm feeling or— (deep breath), just like that th_ the whole thing about how I've been with MSCZ.  I just feel I've stopped at a certain point, and I won't go beyond that point.
But I still had the feeling I can get beyond it, because I know I've been like this other times when it seemed like I've just come to a point where I can't go on, and then I obviously have because my life has been better.  And there have been—, I have solved problems I never used to be able to solve.  So I don't really know.  Except it is true that just right now I've been feeling more strongly the feeling that I can't see what to do next, and I'm not thinking of your telling me what to do next.  W—, I mean it's either your telling me or my figuring it out.  That's the way I'm thinking of it.  And then it's also true about my feelings on being pregnant. That in a way I didn't want to think of my having an active part in it, because I w_, I had such mixed feelings about being pregnant.  And in one way I didn't want to be.  In another way I did.  And so it was better not to think about it and think it would just happen or not happen.  (pause)
 And I don't know, I was just thinking that here for this whole month anyway, certainly all of April, I was feeling feelings I didn't understand and I didn't want to think about.  And, instead of thinking about other things, I really just kept thinking about myself more or at least was, I don't know, somehow—.  Well, thinking about myself seems to be it, although I might not have been getting anywhere in thinking about myself.  And certainly not being as aware of other people.  And I was just thinking of something that happened today.  Because last night I had my usual feeling of feeling sort of out of it at a faculty party. Partly because I hadn't made and effort, and I don't know, maybe partly because I am somebody that just doesn't belong in that kind of a group or may—.  I don't know, if it's going to be that way always or if it's just because I haven't tried that hard or just what it is.  But anyway, I had it, that feeling, and the man who's the president of the faculty group, and who gave th—, who really was running the party was, uhm—, had been very friendly to me the first year he'd come to school and then he'd sort of gone on to other people.  But still remained friendly, but this year he'd, I don't know, it was almost as if he became unfriendly at times.  And he seemed to be kind of abrupt at the party, and I didn't understand it.
And then today when I saw him, I though he'd like to hear that it was a nice party, so I told him that, because it was, aside from my particular problem which other people weren't feeling and—.  Uhm, he was very mechanical in saying, "I'm glad you enjoyed it."  And at first I thought—, my thought was, as I left school that he couldn't stand to talk to me, and I was taking it very personally.  But right now I just thought something that I hadn't thought at all then of, I know there's something bothering him because he's quite fond of one of the teachers and has spent really too much time in her classroom, because it's, it's— I mean he just hasn't been where he should have been some of the time this year and—. Uhm, finally something's been said, but I think it was said badly to both of them, or at least to the teacher, the girl and, uhm (sniff), indirectly to him.  And I th—, I don't know, it just occurred to me now he was the way he was today when I saw him or maybe last night, too.  Because MSCZ overheard him saying something that indicated it was on his mind last night.  And, uhm, that you know he wasn't, he just wasn't thinking about me at all and—.  He had to be mechanical in his response because he was trying to be polite, but that was about as far as he could go.  And I don't know, but that's sort of typical of how I've been all this month, certainly with MSCZ.  I just haven't thought of his side of things at all.  (pause)
 And even more than that I, eh, I don't know, just the way I would take so much as, eh, a situation where then I'd need to be defensive or that something was an affront to me or I was about to lose some kind of freedom or feeling about myself, or feeling that I was something.  Uh, if I were submissive to MSCZ then I would—, it was like cutting myself down to a smaller size or, I don't know, to something less important.  And all that somehow seems to be connected.  (pause)
And I think maybe then, just with this attitude, thinking about coming here and your helping me would be a threat to my being something, too.  If I needed your help I was less than if I didn't need it.  (pause)
ANALYST:  But it seems to me, even maybe more central is the whole conviction, perhaps born of, uh, the fact that you've been reacting to me very much the way you did to your father and feeling the same kinds of feelings, attributing to me the same feelings that you did to him.  In some ways treating me the way your mother treated him, and the way you did.  And so really it was just going to happen the same way all over again.
PATIENT:  And I—.
ANALYST:  That if you really turn to me, you'll end up as disappointed as you were before.  So you fight it off, in much the way you fought before, and with the same sense of nothing can be done.  (2-minute silence)
PATIENT:  It seems funny to me, uhm, because what said at the end—.  I don't know, I just feel it's the answer to something I've been looking for all month of how do I stop.  Because what I was about to say when, when you kept going is that the way I think I've never been aware is how, how close how I'm reacting to you is to I'm, I've always been reacting to MSCZ.  And it's been the same question in both cases of I don't know why I'm doing it really, and I don't know how to stop.  And I don't know why that seems like an answer.  You're saying that my feeling this way, of here's the way I am, and there's nothing I'm do—, can do which is really fighting doing anything, feeling anything else, because I'm afraid of having the same thing happen again.  I—, it just seems like the answer.  Because I don't know, it seems like maybe I'm being rational then but I can—, I don't know, I just know it doesn't have to be the same thing again.  (silence)
 And this—, I remember what I was saying, I don't remember if it was yesterday or the day before, about why I was—, I seemed to be feeling I had to demand from you a change of time and not ask and—.  I remember it was after—, when I was not here that the feeling came to me that it was because I was afraid of—, if I were asking I could be refused.  But somehow the demanding put it so—, a little bit differently.  And then anyway I still didn't want to face that I was demanding or doing anything, because I would f_, have the possibility of being refused and—.  And it was just like the—, fighting the same way because of the—, fearing the same things happening again.  (silence)
ANALYST:  Uhm, I will be out of town next Thursday and Friday, so I have to cancel those 2 hours.
PATIENT:  Ok.
ANALYST:  Our time's up.
