TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client 2326-104. One A, three and three-quarters. Number ten; 1970. You got a haircut; looks nice. 


PATIENT: You bet.


COUNSELOR: How does it feel? 


PATIENT: It feels (laughter) - I can't really feel it, except when I look in the mirror, it looks different. It looks like somebody else. How does it look?


COUNSELOR: I like it better.


PATIENT: Yeah? I feel like it was getting too straggly; it didn't make any sense. I want to get rid of this one too. 


COUNSELOR: How come?


PATIENT: The forehead (ph) because it doesn't really do anything, so it might as well be straight. But that's going to take a while. It's difficult hair. I mean it's not curly, and I guess not sleek, so it doesn't just - but it's sort of in the middle. Anyway ...


COUNSELOR: So here you are.


PATIENT: Here I am.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 1:12), or are you playing a game?


PATIENT: No. Yes and no. It's been a tough weekend (chuckle). I had a couple of agonizing days, so.


COUNSELOR: What kind of thing happened that bothered you?


PATIENT: Yeah right, so anyway.


COUNSELOR: I said what kind of thing.


PATIENT: Yeah, I know, I know, I know. I'll get into it.


COUNSELOR: Let me know what happened.


PATIENT: I know that's what you said about [it anyway] (ph). It's just this thing with Jenna, and my whole relationship with women, and my whole - I'll get to it (laughter). 


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: Anyway, so like Friday I just - wasn't very pleasant. And yesterday I just, all day, I was kind of upset. Anyway, what I'm going through sort of trying to figure out exactly what my relationship was supposed to be or what's good for me. 


And what I'm feeling, when I really get depressed, is jealousy and fear of being alone; fear of being independent. At the same time, knowing that I'd be much happier and much better off if I could act a lot more independent because like I'll spend too much time with her, to be quite honest.


COUNSELOR: It terms of how you feel, or?


PATIENT: In terms of how I - in terms of how we both feel. 


COUNSELOR: All right, just bear with her and you really feel like God dang I wish to hell I weren't here with her.


PATIENT: Not really, but it's not that I feel that. It's that I feel, I'd be happier if I didn't feel - if I felt that there were other things that I wanted to do because I just know that it's not all that great. 


And she feels a bit guilty about the fact that, well both of us feel a bit guilty about the fact that we sort force ourselves to be with each other, and for not, we sort of worry about the other person.


COUNSELOR: And you're feeling like gee, if I were really free, I'd being doing a lot of things I wanted to do.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Would have a different quality.


PATIENT: And I think it would make the whole thing a lot better. [3:26].


COUNSELOR: And it'd feel a lot better, and my relationship with her might even be better.


PATIENT: Yeah, it would for sure because we wouldn't have to guess at it. Like I wouldn't - I just spend time, I just talk myself into, um, think about what she's doing now and stuff like that instead of just enjoying what I'm doing. 


Instead of - and then instead of questioning myself as to well, what are you doing, what do you want to be doing right now, I just fantasize about what she's doing right now. How did this prove she doesn't love me, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera? And that hurts.


And anyway today, today's being really nice. And just, so just the whole thought of coming here and bringing your thoughts (ph) instead of going back to history; it's hard, but.


COUNSELOR: In a sense that you could get caught in it?


PATIENT: Well in a sense that it'll be unpleasant (laughter). Who wants to do anything unpleasant? Well I got - I wrote to her like a half a year [into our relationship] (ph). So ...


COUNSELOR: What's happening now?


PATIENT: What's happening now? I'm sort of waiting. 


COUNSELOR: For me to do something.


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter) (crosstalk).


COUNSELOR: Kind of hoping that I'd do something?


PATIENT: Yeah, and if you don't then I'll say something. Like what you think I ought to do about it. 


COUNSELOR: You ought to talk about it. What about it scares you now or upsets you now? Not the details of what happened then maybe you can leave. But what is it? What do you mean there's something about it now that concerns you?


PATIENT: Right now? [5:23]


COUNSELOR: Un-huh.


PATIENT: Nothing much. I'm not upset about it right now. That's sort of a problem. I just sort of - it's not here right now. It's not bothering me really. I suppose I could let it if I tried. 


COUNSELOR: Do you want to?


PATIENT: Well no (laughter).


COUNSELOR: [Sort of a block] (ph) obviously now then.


PATIENT: Yeah. It's sort of like when you take your car, something's been wrong with your car, and you take it into the gas station. And you try to show them what's wrong, and it wouldn't act up. It just works perfectly. But you want it to on the one hand because you don't want to find anything wrong with it. But on the other hand, you know there's something wrong. You can go to - [while I'm hanging out, he doesn't care to go that far; but still, he wants to] (ph). 


COUNSELOR: Is there anything rattling inside of you?


PATIENT: (Chuckle) that's not a rattle. Right now it's OK, but like when it does happen, it's not a rattle. That's why everything slows down easily. My head just - it's just depressing. And it's scary. It's scary knowing that I'm not asking myself, I'm not challenging myself to see what it is that I really want to do about it. But rather, I just let it flow and let my bad feelings take over, and let my fear - I have a fear of relationships breaking up ...


COUNSELOR: How about ours?


PATIENT: How about ours?


COUNSELOR: Un-huh. 


PATIENT: I don't need to think of that abstractly because like with the way - I don't want it to actually. I mean I want to, (laughter) I want to continue after these 20 sessions if it's possible with us being like I didn't wait until later to bring that up. But it's true. [7:34]


But I don't really fear breaking up with her. I don't really think about it because the - I just feel kind of protective of the structure (ph) of it right now. I know it going to continue for these certain times. 


COUNSELOR: And this, is the tenth? You said ...


PATIENT: I haven't even counted. Shouldn't be the tenth, it should be an odd number. 


COUNSELOR: The number I have is ten. 


PATIENT: It started on a Thursday, didn't it? I think it started in your colleague's office. So it should be an odd number.


COUNSELOR: Then I f**ked (ph) up.


PATIENT: So it's either a nine or eleven? I don't know, anyway. Yeah it feels like it (inaudible at 8:25).


COUNSELOR: So that has the same, and you have some of the same kind of feelings.


PATIENT: No, I don't have any of those feelings. I'm not afraid of us breaking up. And also, if it does, well it'll have to wait until it happened. I mean maybe once it gets closer, I can think of it. But even so, it's kind of different.


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: Because like I don't think I'm - well I suppose I could talk, if it did break up, I could talk myself into staying without being rejected personally, but I'd probably just be defensive and say, "Well that's love." It's - just couldn't be arranged (ph). It's different. 


COUNSELOR: I wasn't insisting that it was the same, I just wondered what ...


PATIENT: No. You just wanted to know?


COUNSELOR: How was it? Is it the same? Is it different?


PATIENT: No, no.


COUNSELOR: What are the edges that are similar?


PATIENT: I'm not worried about this at all. I'm pretty happy about this. 


COUNSELOR: So it's not even ...


PATIENT: No (chuckle). Well, back to the other - like I just started thinking it's going to break up; that's really terrible, and that's it. And then it's terrible. 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel terrible, or?


PATIENT: Yeah, I'm going to feel terrible. I'm going to feel like everybody thinks I did it again. I can't stick it out.


COUNSELOR: You screwed it up?


PATIENT: Yeah. Ah, poor Burt. And then I start to feel poor Burt to me. 


COUNSELOR: Kind of ...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Get your shoulders up and kind of hide a little bit. 


PATIENT: Yeah, I feel ashamed. 


COUNSELOR: So you were to blame? [10:14]


PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not sure if that's what really goes through my mind. It's just sort of implicitly to why I knew that. It's not even a matter of blame, it's just a matter of here I am all alone, and something's bad about to happen. I have a tremendous fear of being alone these days. 


COUNSELOR: What's it feel like?


PATIENT: It feels panicky when I think about it. It feels like I don't have anything to do with my time, and I really can't take it, so I sort of say, "I have to do something. I have to go find somebody to be with."


So I call this person up and that person up and just go somewhere. And I really can't appreciate it myself even; it feels very crampy. It feels very tense. 


COUNSELOR: You just got to get out of here. 


PATIENT: Yeah, and very - I just can't sit down a lot. If I sit down, I just get nervous, and my hands are getting shaky and jumpy. Where's Jenna? How long is she going to be? Should I go see somebody else? What am I going to do? 


COUNSELOR: You're kind of panicky about it. I got to get out of here. I got to find somebody. When's somebody coming? When should I - what should I do? 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: That's part of it?


PATIENT: Yeah, I was just thinking that it's also complicated by the fact that I haven't really been any place lately, which is weird because I haven't - we'll I'm sort of renting a room, subletting in this apartment with these people who I knew were subletting. [12:30] 


Well I just spend all my time there with Jenna, but she doesn't really want me to move in there. So I'm sort of living in two places. I don't spend any time at the one place, and it's really a no-sense home, so I don't really feel like, I never feel like going there except to get a new handkerchief or change of clothes or something like that. I don't really spend any time there. And like I'm ...


COUNSELOR: That's part of the where do you belong? 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Where is your place?


PATIENT: Well I shouldn't have done it to myself because I arranged the whole thing like that. What I ought to do is just get a place. 


COUNSELOR: Think that would help?


PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. I think so. I'm sure it wouldn't be a total (inaudible at 13:14) because I like know I could just go home and sit there and mope and worry and fret anyway. 


And like what I feel right, I'd like to be with just living with Jenna right now. And just to go over there, I mean, whether she's there or not? But it would just be a place where I could sit and read or write or do anything else instead of sort of being uprooted and not really having any place. But that'll have to work itself out. 


But in the meantime, I just don't feel like getting a place and spending so much money if I'm not, if I'm going to be spending so much time with Jenna, so.


COUNSELOR: But what feels like it would be comfortable? Will it be the - to live with her, and then you'd have a place where you could - she could do what she wanted, and you could go over and eat or write. 


PATIENT: Well I could just go instead of having no where to go. I'd think I'd feel better about it, but I'm not sure; I'm not positive. It probably would clear up maybe a couple of things, but it wouldn't ... (crosstalk).


COUNSELOR: Then at least you'd know where you could go if you wanted to. Would you feel different?


PATIENT: Yeah, maybe. I mean, it wouldn't answer everything. I'm sure I would just get into things like I brought them there, and well where's Jenna? When she's coming home? When she's going to get here? What's she doing now; etcetera, etcetera, etcetera? 


COUNSELOR: It would be tense over there?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Maybe [with out everybody] (ph) who's having a good time, and whether she really wanted to get back with you. 


PATIENT: Yeah. It's like for all - I just like to have the security of knowledge and of being sure of like where she is, what's she's doing, what I'm doing, what's going to happen at this hour and at that hour? [15:22]


On the other hand, I think that's really bad being tied down by things like that. And when I think about it rationally, I don't like it at all. And when I see other peoples whose lives are sort of structured like that, I say, "See". 


COUNSELOR: [You always say those things] (ph)?


PATIENT: Sure. 


COUNSELOR: Who?


PATIENT: Who? You know, (laughter) just friends of mine. 


COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk).


PATIENT: We get into a, sort of what I consider, sort of a middle-class marriage type thing; about to come home for dinner, and the wifey cooks the dinner and this and that. 


COUNSELOR: Kind of overly schedule and then routinized, routinized, or whatever.


PATIENT: Organized, yeah. 


COUNSELOR: When I asked, I was thinking maybe your family was like that, or?


PATIENT: Oh.


COUNSELOR: Some people, where you really lived in that kind of situation, do for sure.


PATIENT: Well my family, I mean well sort of, but I always had a lot of freedom. I'd get up when I wanted to. I had a car; I'd go out. The only thing, my mother used to want me to come home for dinner. She never really got very upset whenever I used to (inaudible at 16:36). But I never got [really concerned] (ph). 


But it didn't really affect me all that much. That's the thing. Again, I was a kid. I feel like I sort of lived a pretty unstructured life. Or like sometimes I'd just feel really good about having kind of a structure. I like getting up and reading the paper in the morning; things to do, things that you do; things that I do everyday. And sometimes it feels good and then other times it's kind of creepy. 


COUNSELOR: You don't want it to get stuck that way.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But other times it feels kind of, I don't know, sort of good to have something that you should be doing. I know.


PATIENT: (Laughter) I don't know. Sort of got cut off there for some reason; I might feel different about it. 


COUNSELOR: Did good, did you?


PATIENT: What did I first do? Now I even forgot what I first did.


COUNSELOR: No, I meant what kinds of things is it [good to do] (ph) now.


PATIENT: It's really floating along nowhere. 


COUNSELOR: (Laughter).


PATIENT: It's just really, really up in the air. I can't even think where I was thinking about five seconds ago (chuckle). Is there a watch?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: It doesn't look readable from here. OK, let me see it. I still can't see it very well. I guess I can. It doesn't help that it's ten after three, is it?


COUNSELOR: 20 some.


PATIENT: 20 after. OK, I see it. [18:35] 


COUNSELOR: Kind of floating around. Are you back, or like this? 


PATIENT: Oh, boy.


COUNSELOR: Where you floating there, or weren't you. Did you just stop? 


PATIENT: I don't know where I was. I was sort of looking at the time to figure out why I couldn't see the little red thing, but then I decided it was because one was on top of the other. And then I decided that that isn't right; 20 after. It's coming down.


COUNSELOR: It's coming down. I hear it coming down. 


PATIENT: I'm coming down.


COUNSELOR: Like a clock, or a?


PATIENT: Just slowly. I feel like a couch (ph). 


COUNSELOR: Kind of strolling along?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Did it hit?


PATIENT: Hmm.


COUNSELOR: Did you hit bottom. 


PATIENT: It's hitting. It's coming slowly. It's not too pleasant though.


COUNSELOR: What's it like? Not too pleasant, but doesn't make you cranky (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. It just feels moderately depressing. My head spins.


COUNSELOR: Do you feel depressed?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Or it feels like a feeling inside you that's not quite you maybe.


PATIENT: Well I just feel a little bit depressed. It might be just a moment. It doesn't really feel too bad. Just, now it sort of leveled off now. So I guess I should find ground. I mean [there's no where ground than bottom] (ph).


It just feels like before I sort of didn't know where my mind was at; even floating in the air (inaudible at 20:44). Now I'm on the ground. I guess just the impact of the whole floor is coming down made me feel a bit depressed. And now I'm just totally sane (laughter).


COUNSELOR: Does anything bother when you totally sane, or?


PATIENT: Nothing's bothering me now. Well, something is (laughter). Just wondering if things bothering me when I, if things do bother me when I'm sane about it. 


COUNSELOR: [Is it kind of like that] (ph) I shouldn't be feeling that way, or?


PATIENT: Well, am I kidding myself when I'm saying nothing's bothering me? So that bothers me. 


COUNSELOR: When you don't - whether you can really trust your own feelings. 


PATIENT: (Crosstalk).


PATIENT: Well, I got a sense that you really [jump roped] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: There's no way out of that. 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: In it.


PATIENT: Out of it.


COUNSELOR: But I mean once you're feeling that way, you can't get anywhere.


PATIENT: Right. It feels really - it feels hopeless because there's no help; there's no answer.


COUNSELOR: And is that have you feel when you're feeling sort of on the ground, or sane, or however you put it. 


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: No.


PATIENT: I'm just describing that in terms of, I just feel very firm in here. I can feel that, I can feel the understanding words that are going between us. And like before when I was sort of up in the air, it's just really floaty. I just, I didn't know what happened two seconds ago or two weeks ago. 


COUNSELOR: You really (inaudible at 22:52).


PATIENT: Yeah, that's all I was talking about. 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel like also more united, or?


PATIENT: You mean [by the other night] (ph)? I get it. Sure, [on the other] (ph), it's more unpleasant; it doesn't feel bad. Just talking to you and carry on and do what you do, and I'll just answer you. It's a very internal thing; like I can feel things. I can enjoy things too, but it's hard to relate. It's hard to. 


I mean I couldn't be doing, I couldn't read and do anything like that. I just have to be my favorite (inaudible at 23:34). 


COUNSELOR: And when it's unpleasant, it means you're (crosstalk).


PATIENT: It's not all unpleasant, it's just there. It's just what's happening, and I can't enjoy it while it's happening. I don't know what triggered it actually. I guess last time I just got triggered by the fact that I was thinking about all these things. I guess it was just too intense after a while. I just force myself to stop thinking about it all; I'll blank it all out.


COUNSELOR: I guess you're good at it (chuckle).


PATIENT: Why do you say that?


COUNSELOR: Because I guess [there's nothing you can do] (ph). I guess if things get too scary or too close or too awkward like what you were saying, you can kind of turn it off and slow down. 


PATIENT: I don't always. I spend a lot time when things get scary just really, really, really battling it and not shutting it off. But what I do shut off is just my own initiative, and my own will to go underneath it to try to figure out what it's all about. So, I'll just lay around and be (inaudible at 24:52). 


I'm glad yesterday was such a pretty day though (chuckle). I don't know, it's sort of just nice to walk around and lie around by myself and think. It's weird because sometimes I would just be sitting down. My mind would just sorta click into place, and all my thoughts would make a lot of sense. And I'd just feel perfectly all right about everyone and everything. 


And I just like come out of no where without - I try, I try to see what I'm telling myself while it's going through my mind, but it just doesn't seem clear when it just starts getting (laughter) sort of out of whack again. I guess, again, if I cry, it'll be clear. It's just, I'm not letting myself.


COUNSELOR: Maybe the thing of it, [let me guess] (ph), but you know for sure the feeling of how clear it feels sometimes, like yesterday.


PATIENT: Sometimes.


COUNSELOR: Sometime yesterday when you were thinking and stuff really made a lot of sense. And then somehow you find yourself off again. I'm not sure what that off again is like, but (crosstalk).


PATIENT: It's not always like feeling jealous and feeling nobody loves me and feeling ...


COUNSELOR: When you say jealous, I'm not sure really, I know what it means, but I don't know how it is for you exactly.


PATIENT: OK. 


COUNSELOR: Is it ...


PATIENT: (Inaudible at 26:30). 


COUNSELOR: Like, God I wish I were like somebody else? 


PATIENT: No, it isn't a type of feeling, it's just a type of - it's sort of a possessive type jealousy. 


COUNSELOR: How? Can you say it in sentences, or?


PATIENT: Yeah, like I don't want you to be interested in anybody else. Why aren't you interested in me? As if you're being interested in somebody else implies that you're not interested in me, or I'll kill myself if it does. Or there she is again talking to so and so. 


COUNSELOR: You hate him.


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: Explain that.


PATIENT: Just hate the situation then and don't like my feelings. I don't really feel - I think, I don't, no, I don't tell myself that. Well a few times; sometimes. 


COUNSELOR: OK, I was just guessing. 


PATIENT: Well I'm just going through it in my own mind because, like I said, [you have it] (ph). Sometimes I guess I do that, but generally if I like the other person, I don't tell myself that. If I don't like the other person then, "How could she be spending time talking to that a**hole?"


COUNSELOR: To him, yeah.


PATIENT: Or her, or whatever (chuckle).


COUNSELOR: When she could be spending it with me. 


PATIENT: Yeah but then, I don't quite get that far because if I got that far, I'd sort of laugh at myself. As if what kind of an a**hole [says that] (ph) (chuckle). There more things in the world than me. 


COUNSELOR: Like it would feel pompous? And you'd feel swell headed or something. 


PATIENT: Yeah, and plus then, if I go that far, all I - then I'd start thinking about it and think about, "Well Jesus, who am I anyway." And then I'd just go, "Well, what a ridiculously bad thing to feel because you're really pretty worthless anyway." And this even proves it.


COUNSELOR: This proves it. But it's the kind of chomping hard on your teeth. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Feeling is ...


PATIENT: Well on Saturday night I can do a lot of things. God dammit, this, is loud; my ear. That happens when I ...


COUNSELOR: You cringe it. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: You've been remembering it. 


PATIENT: That happens once every, well it happened 2 months ago (inaudible at 29:08).


COUNSELOR: What was the feeling like? Can you get a little close without feeling too about ...?


PATIENT: Oh, just really desperate. I'm just like, I really had to yell and scream.


COUNSELOR: God I hate you now. Feeling of I got to be close no more. I got to ...


PATIENT: Well, well, it's just a feeling that I - there was a lot of anger built up. I just had to release it. I mean there was just so much that I just couldn't keep it in; too much to suppress [like a bubble that's going to break] (ph).


COUNSELOR: Scared to get that angry in public and ...


PATIENT: It's bad enough in private. 


COUNSELOR: Like just sensed it before you were that angry about it.


PATIENT: Yeah, I can sort of feel it coming. And like if, it didn't necessarily have to happen like that. I mean if everything had worked out just exactly according to this or that, it wouldn't have happened. But I would, I was just sort of waiting for the one little thing that went wrong by half an inch, I was screaming at it. 


COUNSELOR: What kind of thing was it?


PATIENT: Well it was just a matter of if I had driven up there and Sally just smiled and jumped into the car, it would have been OK. But she was just talking to somebody else for an extra, I guess, ten seconds. And I just sort of hollered, "Come on." 


COUNSELOR: Were you embarrassed by that? You're looking a little like it that's why I'm asking.


PATIENT: Yeah it wasn't all that bad actually, fortunately. Like it didn't seem all that off; it could have been a lot worse 


COUNSELOR: You really didn't make as a** of yourself. [31:09]


PATIENT: Not too much because like from the outside, it could have actually seen reasonably if I was hollering, "Come on that there was something to do." (Chuckle) I guess it would have made sense. Nevertheless, (laughter) it didn't feel very weird. 


COUNSELOR: Felt desperate.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And you sure don't like to have to scream like that.


PATIENT: Yeah, on the other hand, I kind of feel that I tend not to get at my anger. And my anger kind of tends to well up inside me because I don't let it out on things like this sometimes. 


And it's just the fact that I can get it out made me feel good. But I got to be able to control it though. And I also ought to be able to use it a little better because when I do, I'll get anger, and then next I'll feel guilty about hollering at somebody.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like even in him breaking (ph) down, it was like you were feeling some guilt.


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know it I was, but maybe I was; I suppose.


COUNSELOR: Was it ...


PATIENT: Yeah, right.


COUNSELOR: Is that guilt?


PATIENT: That was sort of a game. I mean it's guilt if I think about it, but I'm so - I mean that's, I guess, how I just understood. That's how I feel about it afterwards rather than how I really felt about it right now. And like I don't really feel guilty about it right now, I just feel like I 'm talking about it and trying to explain everything.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 32:55) not knowing clearly what you were thinking. Whether you were feeling it was so icky (ph) now.


PATIENT: No I'm not really. 


COUNSELOR: It seems now like your feeling more comfortable about it.


PATIENT: Yeah, which makes me feel kind of good actually. I kind of worry about feeling comfortable sometimes when I know that there's things that are messed up.


COUNSELOR: Maybe that's (inaudible at 33:28).


PATIENT: And like, well like after Saturday after I sort of, we sort of had it out, and then afterwards I just didn't really feel relaxed. I sort of felt that Jenna was real nice about it all. 


And I just sort of talked myself into it. Talked to myself saying, "Something still wrong. It can all be over with because I blew up today, and I acted like a s**t, and she really can't take it." But so ...


COUNSELOR: So you're - well, wait a ...


PATIENT: I just feel, I feel on edge after I go through something like that. 


COUNSELOR: Were you surprised that she wasn't seeing you as much of a s**t as you thought you ought to be; she ought to be seeing that?


PATIENT: Not really surprised. I don't think that's the word. I just felt that something wasn't settled. I just felt on edge. I just felt - I guess I felt something wasn't worked out, but that's sort of an intellectual feeling. 


COUNSELOR: You have to.


PATIENT: That isn't what I was really feeling. What I was feeling is just empty like something's not right. I just can't sit back and relax and enjoy the rest of the evening as if nothing happened. And that seems to be the way it is that she seems to want things to be, I think. 


COUNSELOR: But really feeling very, very on the edge of something and kind of tense too, I guess.


PATIENT: Yes, just not being able to forget about things like that.


COUNSELOR: And there's something still wrong about that. I don't know for sure what, but ...


PATIENT: There's something still wrong about me or about something right now because I don't feel relaxed. I don't feel, I don't know exactly what it is. 


COUNSELOR: What's that thing, or?


PATIENT: I was thinking of that.


COUNSELOR: Do you have that kind of reaction now that the [feeling is out] (ph)?


PATIENT: Sort of.


COUNSELOR: Is that kind of disgusting, or?


PATIENT: It's not disgusting. 


COUNSELOR: OK, I see.


PATIENT: It's just worrying, what I was saying. Like I kind of feel even when I go, when I leave here, and I feel that it's really been rather pleasant, I sort of feel like there's something wrong that (chuckle). 


Like going through it, "It was sure easy today and it was fun, and I had a good time, but something's wrong with that because it's good." I just wish I was tortured in here like I am supposed to be, or feel a lot of agony. And so if I'm not, then that means that I'm not progressing anywhere, and that's got to be a terrible thing. [It's like getting a little warning] (ph). [36:33]


END TRANSCRIPT
