TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(background noise until [00:00:22)
THERAPIST: Hi! Come on in.
(background noise)
CLIENT: It's hot!
THERAPIST: It's hot outside?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I just woke up. (chuckle) It's Tuesday (inaudible) that class and it really makes me (chuckle) depressed because it's like (pause) something that I don't want to do really gets me depressed. I feel trapped. (chuckle) (pause) I did see really good literature and stuff and scholarship but it's just is like I don't want to do it and it's late at night (pause) and cannot do anything about it so it just makes me feel burdened. [00:01:32]
(pause) It just made me think, wonder about whether what I'm doing is the right thing or not because I've been (inaudible) and I've convinced myself this (pause) really is the best option. But I kind of forget that when I'm upset and I want to throw it all away. (chuckle) I was having a moment there yesterday and David (ph) was like, "No! You've...this really is good and you're doing good," and I'm like, "No, my life's not going anywhere."
(silence from [00:02:11] to [00:02:39)
I'm trying to remember what we talked about Monday because I didn't make notes and I didn't think about it. Yeah, so I think it's interesting what you said that if I'm not in touch with my own thoughts and feelings then I wouldn't know what I want. (pause) It's like I feel so mired in them that I feel that it's not going anywhere so I want to snap out and I feel good and then I again get confused because I don't know what I want. (chuckle) [00:03:20]
(pause) And it made sense also, the other things you said about (pause) people being conflicted but (pause) you still can figure out which side of the spectrum of the conflict defines you more and which you can do without or something. So I still haven't figured out which one I want and which one I can do without. (chuckle)
(silence from [00:03:54] to [00:04:27)
Yesterday this small thing happened that really kind of threw me off and took me several hours to put myself back together. (chuckle) It was a tiny thing. I had revisions due on my story and I just was working on them until the very last one on the subway, on the bus (chuckle), and then as soon as I got to the university sitting in David's (ph) office, finishing it, and then I sent it to his printer. It's like the department printer and this woman was there—this tall woman—and she looked at me and she's like, "What are you doing?" And she snatched the papers out of my hand and she's like, "What are you printing? Students are not allowed to print here," and this and that. And I was like, "I'm printing for a professor." (chuckle) And I told her David's (ph) name and she's like, "I'll have to have a word with him. He cannot send a student to this printer," and she followed me. "Where is he?" and I was like, "He's not here." That just made me feel so horrible. (chuckle) Again, I'm just feeling bad about he's a professor and I'm a student and I just feel really unequal there. I just felt bad because I was like, you know, when he was a student and he was finishing his PhD, he'd send me a shit load of stuff to print, like his thesis, and I would print it at my workplace, you know? Because I don't print...when people just printed, at my old workplace, anything you send them [and they hit print, print] (ph) and they won't even do double sided. And I'm very, very conscious about not...when we print stuff when it's absolutely necessary and even then we print two on one side and on both side and I'm very, very conservative when using paper. So I feel like it's okay if David (ph) sends me articles and I'll print two on one side and use as little paper as possible. (sigh) [00:06:39]
But I felt so horrible yesterday. I don't feel so bad now but I just felt really bad. (chuckle) That whole thing about me not measuring up and me not being able to face his colleagues and wanting to run away when they're there. It just made me feel bad. And that night I had resentment also because I was like, "I did all the printing for him and now I need this one little thing and it's a big deal." (pause) I just wish I could be comfortable in my own skin and I don't know if that's going to happen in this lifetime. (laughter) [00:07:37]
THERAPIST: That's quite a statement.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: That's quite a statement.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Yeah, I don't know why I feel...and then I look and I'm like, "What's wrong with me?" It's like (pause) other people don't see much stuff that's wrong and I just don't (pause) see it from their perspective. I just see all the... (pause) I don't measure up. I haven't achieved. I cannot (pause) perform in bed. (chuckle) What you said, when you asked, "[Are you] (ph) aroused?" and I thought you just meant that equal stuff and it's not that. (chuckle) It's way more than that apparently. David (ph) was doing something (inaudible) and I was like, "That's not what happened!" (laughter)
THERAPIST: Like what? [00:08:32]
CLIENT: I don't know, you said like when you're aroused you're very, very relaxed and the muscles and (pause) you're very... I guess you desire that kind of violence. And I don't. (chuckle) I'm very timid with him and maybe with other people too. (sigh)
THERAPIST: Well usually if you're lubricated it's a symptom of being aroused.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm not sure of the violent part.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Well no, but he said that usually you have to—this is from his reading—usually you have to wonder and I don't. I still am very conscious of what I'm doing and (pause) I tighten up for sure. (chuckle) [00:09:28]
THERAPIST: Well it's interesting. I don't think those two are necessarily tied. I think people can be aroused and still feel very timid or anxious. One is more physiologic and one is more emotional. Sometimes they go together that when you're aroused you feel sort of more open but not necessarily. They are pathways that are related but not always the same and sometimes being aroused makes people feel anxious.
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I just feel...this is another thing that makes me (chuckle) sad. I don't really know what to do with that. 
(silence from [00:10:13] to [00:10:31)
THERAPIST: It doesn't take much to tap into your sense of inadequacy.
CLIENT: It doesn't? (laughter)
THERAPIST: I don't think so.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Are you not sure what I mean?
CLIENT: No, I mean like doesn't take much as in...are you saying...what is...how little? (chuckle)
THERAPIST: That it gets triggered in a lot of different situations like you can't make photocopies here. It gets triggered (pause) across a lot of contexts.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was like in tears (chuckle) when that happened yesterday.
(pause)
THERAPIST: It sounds like you felt she was saying to you, "You're not good enough to be here."
CLIENT: Yeah. Like, "This is for faculty and your boyfriend is faculty." But she didn't know that I was his girlfriend. He kept saying, "I'll go and have word with her!" I'm like, "No! (chuckle) I want to hide! I don't want anyone to know that your significant other—or maybe not—is a student here and in a very, very...not something that makes money or something that's very cerebral." It's something that's very (pause)...no one respects this field that much, unless you write a very important book and it wins a very big prize. It's just the culture, I think, partly... (chuckle) [00:12:00]
THERAPIST: I think a lot of people admire people who go into creative endeavors.
CLIENT: They do but at the same time but this is not just me saying it but like my professors say it all the time too, who have traveled and lived in other countries, they find that America doesn't respect artists as much. And I was like, "Is that really true? Because there are so many endowments and stuff like that." (pause) But then I just realized that it's true because when I was in a small town in India I just said, "Yeah, I'm ready to go to school (inaudible)." And they were like...all of a sudden they stopped looking at me like a little girl and started talking to me like, "Are you going to write about this angle? Are you going to write about that angle?" And the conversation completely changed so I realized there is a traditional respect for artists in India—in the small town maybe. In the city they won't give a shit because the middle class is absolutely...like the (inaudible), they have absolutely crass taste. (chuckle) They only care about money. [00:13:14]
But so I understand. That was a segue so what I was I saying? Yeah, so yesterday at that moment I didn't...all of those anxieties came back like, "I don't really have a (inaudible). What am I doing here?" And yeah, after a few hours I was at that point, my life is going nowhere and it was triggered by this woman saying, "You can't print here." 
(pause) I just had so much resentment. (pause) When David (ph) got this job I just was (pause)...I feel so horrible but that is how I reacted and that's the truth. I cried that night, like really, really. I sobbed. (chuckle) I don't know why I did that but that was what I felt. (sigh) I felt really jealous and... (pause) I mean I felt happy for him. You might be like, "What? That's not true." I did but I was so removed (pause) from that. A part of me was so removed and really wanted to remove myself. (pause) I just wanted to be in a little corner by myself and not let anyone reach me or touch me (pause) so bad. (crying) [00:14:42]
(pause)
Why do people feel that way? That's so weird. It's so wrong (ph) isn't it? (pause) Why do I feel that way? (crying) (pause) Why couldn't I just have been happy at his success, you know? (pause) I feel happy at my mom's success. (pause) And even at my own little successes, I don't really feel (pause) extremely happy or anything. I feel there is quite (pause) an amount of anxiety I feel. (pause) Like one time when I was at school I submitted this story to a contest and I won it and they invited me to read it (chuckle) so I wrote to some of my friends, "Hey! I'm going to be reading!" And then my mom said...her friend's daughter was getting engaged and she had already bought tickets so I didn't cancel the tickets. I went because I thought, "Oh, obligation. I must do this," and I had absolutely no fun (pause) at all at that engagement. We were invited but we weren't like (pause) on the center stage with them. [00:17:03]
(pause) I was on the phone with my friend...and other people who showed up to the reading, they were like, "Where...you're supposed to be there! You're supposed to read, you won it. Why didn't you do that?" I just got really, I guess, anxious that this is one good thing that has happened. I hope it doesn't get to my head and this and that and I wonder if any more good things are going to happen—probably not. (chuckle) (sigh) I just ran away from (pause) the limelight I guess. But again, I might have run away but I resented that I wasn't in the limelight at the engagement party. (pause) It's weird. I want attention. Then when I get it I don't know how to take it. I don't know. [00:18:03]
So this makes people around me very, very (pause) unsure of how to act around me. (chuckle) It's very...they see that I guess and they don't know what to do with me. (pause) Well, some of them feel like (pause) they cannot (pause) please me any. That's what Victor (ph) said, that "You just cannot...people feel that this cannot make you happy." I don't know. 
(pause)
THERAPIST: Do you think you feel guilty when you're in the limelight?
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) Why do you think I feel guilty? [00:19:07]
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know. (pause) I guess I was listening to the story you told as your obligation trumped your success or your recognition and so I guess that's why I said that, that somehow you'd feel guilty. That somehow you weren't meeting your obligation by fulfilling your own interests and dreams.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just felt like, you know... (pause) if someone is telling me what to do and they are over me somehow, I feel (pause) more comfortable doing that even though it makes me unhappy than following my own path. (pause) Even though (chuckle) very strangely in my life, that's what I'm doing right now, (pause) with perhaps a lot of apprehension. (pause) I don't know. That really threw me off. (pause) This happened a couple years ago but I was like, "Why didn't I go to the reading?" And my mom was saying that too, like, "Just cancel the ticket. It's okay. It's just a hundred bucks." And I was like, "No, no. I shouldn't." (chuckle) (pause) It's like I subject myself to torturing myself because that's, I don't know, in some ways more familiar (pause) than something that might be nice but unfamiliar. I don't know. 
(silence from [00:21:04] to [00:21:51)
A lot of people probably have this fear, the unfamiliar, that just causes them to stay with what they have. (pause) I didn't realize I was such a coward. I have so many fears. (chuckle) And I consider myself sometimes fearless, so that's again another one of my conflicts. I'm not fearless but you know, like bold. I don't know. I might have this image of myself that's probably not accurate. (chuckle) 
THERAPIST: Well I think you have an image of yourself that doesn't incorporate all the complexity. I don't know if it's not accurate because I'm sure there are ways in which you are fearless. [00:22:49]
CLIENT: Yeah, like what? (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I should give examples?
CLIENT: Well, it would be nice! (laughter)
(pause)
Yeah, maybe.
THERAPIST: Because you doubt yourself?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Because you doubt yourself?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: When you say examples, you came up with the idea that inside you felt fearless. So I'm sure that there are ways in which there, in a sense, are examples in your mind. But you ask me for examples. 
CLIENT: I'm always looking for approval as you might have guessed by now. (chuckle) (pause) I guess also I didn't want to (pause) tell a lie I guess. Like, if I haven't been fearless then I should accept that. [00:23:47]
(pause)
THERAPIST: I think about the distinction between speaking the truth and speaking truthfully. There's often not one truth so speaking the truth is a very particular way of looking at things and sort of we are. But speaking truthfully is very different.
(pause)
CLIENT: I mean, is it possible to live with [complex and mad] (ph) at yourself and not drive yourself crazy?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: You don't think (chuckle)...you didn't wait for me to finish almost. (laughter)
THERAPIST: What were you going to say?
CLIENT: No, you said yes so I'm thinking. Yeah, I don't know, it's so much...so many different things. (pause) Yeah, I guess (pause) what I'm feeling is that I (pause)...it's so (pause)... I just lost my train of thought. (pause) Yeah, I just feel like I wish I could...it feels like I want to make a decision on things I want clarity. Like, am I fearless or not? So when someone comes and says to me, "You cannot print here," shouldn't I have the confidence to say...like I was very shaken up. I was like, "Here, I'll give you money," and I felt like I had done a very bad, very wrong thing. But I also wish I, in such a scenario, would have the confidence to be like, "Yes, I'm sorry, but you cannot make me feel small. You cannot shove me out of your office, you know? You might be big and tall..." David (ph) said she's also a student! (chuckle) So I was like, that's... [00:26:25]
But then I don't want to have an exaggerated sense of achievement which I feel like I sometimes do and that's just absolutely ridiculous because I am with someone who has achieved so much, you know? (chuckle)
THERAPIST: How do you feel you [have an] (ph) exaggerated sense?
CLIENT: I don't know, like in that class I'm taking (pause)...over at the university this was even more pronounced. Yeah, at school it was so bad. I've learned a lesson from my year there. So I was at the university and there the professors are very, very sharp, very, very well-known and the level of discussion in those classes is just (pause) very superior. So when I got to this school I was like, "What is this? Why are we reading this? This is so not to the same level!" (chuckle) I was too much and I got a little recognition in the beginning in my writing and I was like, "Yeah I'm really good and all these people there, I don't understand what they're writing." So I got...that was really bad. (chuckle) And that made me reach the end of my...without anything. [00:28:05]
So here I'm trying to be—not just trying—but actually having learned the lesson that I'm not going to learn at all if (pause) I find myself...if I have such an exaggerated sense of my writing or whatever. But then again, in the class—the literature class—the level of discussion is even lower than it was at BU but I'm trying to have a more, kind of...I don't know, what is that word? Realistic? I don't know. Like a realistic sense of what to expect and what not to expect. So (pause) these kids are probably much younger to me and (pause)...I think I'm trying not to...yeah I try to get something else out instead of like superior understanding of playing (ph) the scholarship. So that's what I mean by exaggerated sense. I had that at school and I'm trying not to have that here because I feel like I should just have different expectations. (pause) Yeah, I should just change my expectations. [00:29:34]
THERAPIST: Why are you getting another MFA?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not really just another MFA. It's more like the time that (pause) I'm able to get and the money. So instead of having to look for another (pause) part time job it was much easier to apply for a program and they'd give me some sort of assistance-ship. And they have that and I only need to work a few hours a week and get paid. It's not much at all but I can pay my rent. So that would have been a lot more difficult...I would have loved to stay part time but they didn't want to do part time. They had a full time position and I didn't want to do full time (chuckle) because I would have not been able to write at all. [00:30:37]
Plus the community; (pause) I made no friends at school because of various reasons. There was a lot of jealousy. There was a lot of (pause)...yeah I made no friends, really just one friend and I don't see her very often. She's older and she has kids. And here I don't talk to everyone but I've made one new friend. (pause) A bit more contacts....so...
THERAPIST: Wouldn't as you have more time to just focus on what you want to do if you weren't in class?
CLIENT: Yeah but I felt I was in a tunnel, (pause) completely all by myself because writing is such a solitary profession anyways. (pause) So, yeah I was completely driving myself crazy. I was spiraling down (chuckle) and I didn't have any other option but to go back to school it seemed. I might have had other options but I don't know. I didn't look into them. (pause) I wanted to humble myself. Maybe in a way I was punishing myself by going back to school like whipping myself. "You have not learned anything! Go back! Start again!" (chuckle) [00:32:13]
(pause) But I do feel anxious (ph) that I already have a degree. What am I doing here? But then I quiet (ph) those voices and (pause) humble myself and tell myself I have a lot to learn and this time has been given to me for writing. I should be thankful. 
(pause) I just really desperately desire friendship and human contact. Maybe I am a bottomless pit, (chuckle) [settle down] (ph), get satisfied but I just feel like having David (ph) and my mom is just not enough. (pause) I feel like what is this life? Why do I have just two people? And they just became poisons to me (chuckle) because I felt like at work I was working, bringing in money, paying the rent while these guys were just (pause)...I'm not (inaudible). David (ph) was writing his thesis but that meant that he didn't have any money. (pause) I just felt burdened by that in our tiny little apartment that we shared so we all moved away (chuckle) and got our own place but I think that was because I felt burdened and poisoned by living in that situation. [00:34:07]
(pause) I look for avenues to meet people and not really but I feel like I want to (sigh) and then I complain that I don't have time and people that work are just absolutely not the kind of people I'd want to hang out with. Not because they're bad but we just don't have any of the same interests at all, you know? And David's (ph) friends, David's (ph) friends now, they're like professors now! (chuckle) They're not even graduate students. And I really was kind of jealous of how he...the one good thing about being in a PhD program is that for six or seven years you get to see the same people and you form this bond and you get at least ten or twenty friends for life. Since I didn't go to a PhD program, I went to MA programs and I didn't have any friends from the program. I didn't have any friends from this program so I'm just like, "What is happening? Where are my people? Where is my...?" I just feel really (chuckle) inadequate in that department. [00:35:37]
(pause) I might try to make friends. This thing bothered me a lot. David (ph) and I would talk about this a lot and I would go overboard. I do go overboard. I bend over backward, seriously. I throw parties, (pause) I really stretch myself trying to help people just so they'd be my friends but you know, it doesn't work. And David (ph) has this effortless knack. He won't do anything. He won't go out of his way. He won't even do anything to help but he will just be nice. He will just be himself and people are attracted to him. People want to be his friend. (sigh) And I'm jealous of that too. (chuckle) [00:36:41]
(pause) I just feel like I have these empty buckets in my life and if I could just get them maybe not filled to the brim but they wouldn't be completely dry the way they feel to me. Then I would be (pause) happier. (pause) And I just have this fear every time I try to make a new time, I just have this anxiety that they don't like me or I'll do something and then they won't like me and they'll just go away and stop being my friend. (pause) Maybe that's why I over compensate.
(silence from [00:37:36] to [00:38:15)
People need friends, right? You don't just live your life all by yourself.
THERAPIST: Is that a question?
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I'm struck by your feeling that you don't have the answers.
CLIENT: Well (pause) I just wonder if I'm supposed to just have enough inside me that I don't need friends. But I don't know if I do. (crying)
(silence from [00:38:48] to [00:39:27)
I don't want to expect too much from others. I know I need to have things inside myself that (pause) fulfill me. (sigh) (pause) But for the longest time I felt like (pause) only David (ph) had friends and I didn't and I was just (pause) making new (ph) friends as my friends. (crying)
(silence from [00:40:01] to [00:42:04)
THERAPIST: You got quiet.
CLIENT: I know. (pause) I'm trying to think but (pause) as usual I feel like it's too much to think. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Is that when you stop talking that just a lot comes to mind quickly?
CLIENT: I think either that or I think about something sad and I just (pause) don't want to pursue that thought. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Why not?
CLIENT: Because then I'll start crying or I won't want to do anything else for a little while. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: You want to keep that sadness inside?
CLIENT: Yeah, or not encourage it, you know?
(pause)
THERAPIST: What would happen if you let that sadness out?
CLIENT: I guess it will take me a few hours to get myself back together. (pause) Then the day will be ruined and I won't be able to do stuff. (pause) I'm trying to be like David (ph) and keep being busy. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: To what end? [00:43:33]
CLIENT: To be busy because I think busy people are happy. I think...he said yesterday several times he's happy, he's happy, he's happy. And I was like, "No you're not! (chuckle) You haven't even mourned your girlfriend blatantly cheating on you," if that's what you want to call it. And he's like, "No, I'm happy! I'm happy!" (chuckle) And the secret to his happiness is he's busy so I'm just trying to do what he does. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Well what you just said is his business is a way for him to deny or oppress what he's feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that what it means to be happy, to distract yourself?
CLIENT: Sure, but...yeah why not? Because he's doing alright. He's successful and (pause) a fully functioning human being. He takes care of himself. (pause) He's not emotional. I'm not saying I want to be like him. I mean I do want to be like him and I know I cannot because I'm just completely emotional. But in little ways I can because I want the same things as him. Not completely the same but I want success. I want (pause) to have friends and to be...to take care of myself and if that is achieved by being busy then I'm going to do that. [00:45:10]
THERAPIST: You want a more expansive life than he has.
CLIENT: Expansive?
THERAPIST: Expansive, not expensive.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, but in what way expansive?
THERAPIST: You complain a lot that you feel it's boring to be with him. There's so many things that are cut off, so many experiences that are cut off and not appreciated in their fullness and that's one of the things that you've talked about wanting, that you worry he won't be able to provide because he's a different kind of person.
CLIENT: Yeah. He and I had a talk and that's what he said, that he's not going to be able to change much. And I asked him, I was like, "Why was I unhappy on all these times when we went out of town?" And it was true, he was preoccupied.
THERAPIST: He was busy. [00:46:09]
CLIENT: Yeah! And he said this is how he's going to be like so it's up to me and this is why I'm here to figure out whether I'm going to be okay with that or not. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Cecelia we need to stop for today okay? So I'll see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yes, 10:15.
THERAPIST: Yes. Take care!
CLIENT: You too.
THERAPIST: Bye bye!
CLIENT: Bye. [00:46:32]
END TRANSCRIPT
