TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
_____________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is client 0518-014. Session number 1.
PATIENT: You look familiar.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you do too. I've been around here (inaudible 0:30) for a long time.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that's (inaudible 0:32). There are so many faces. Okay, I've never been in therapy before so (inaudible 0:41)
COUNSELOR: About being in therapy?
PATIENT: Not so much that; I guess just dealing...deciding to deal with what is making me unhappy.
COUNSELOR: A-ha.
PATIENT: You know, in a really straightforward way, which is kind of how I see therapy.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, some kind of a decision to turn around and face into something.
PATIENT: Not that I haven't been facing it but I think it is like a whole different thing when you talk about it with your friends or somebody. Not really, but it is taking it more seriously.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm scared about it but I also want to do it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm not really sure where to begin. I want to describe my situation to you but I don't know where to begin on it. It's just...I guess just the feeling that I have is that I am spending all my time trying to keep my head above water.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: All my energy is directed towards just not feeling terrible.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know? I'm not feeling really horrible but it is taking a lot of energy not to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So something's really horrible.
COUNSELOR: And not having enough to do anything much except to keep your head above water too.
PATIENT: Right, exactly, and I don't feel like (inaudible 2:28) because I am expending so much energy not being manically depressed.
COUNSELOR: And intuitively if you let go, you just get flooded with being depressed.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I know that I wouldn't let myself do that. I know enough historically about myself that I have enough of something strong to let it not get into a non-functional state.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: The expectation is there. 0:03:02.7
COUNSELOR: Just to let go.
PATIENT: Yeah, especially now because it's finals weekend and I've got four...I mean it's really ridiculous. Always whenever everything's bad, everything compounds and everything gets bad so I happen to have four papers and two finals instead of, you know, in other quarters I've only had two papers and no finals. Now I have four papers and two finals and not enough time and all sorts of pressure. I guess the main thing that I am real unhappy about now is my apartment and how I'm being in it, and how (inaudible 3:39) I'm moving out. And the thing is I want you to already know all this stuff about me, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because you can't talk to me unless I already have all the background, yeah.
PATIENT: Right, and I guess also I really wanted to talk to you a couple of weeks ago when the whole thing started happening but I just felt we couldn't - with the conference center or whatever - we couldn't get it together. So now I feel like, now, whatever changed, I am at a point where things have already happened and I wanted to work it through with somebody but it's...I mean, it's not too late. It's just that...
COUNSELOR: It is just very disappointing not to have been able to do it then.
PATIENT: Yeah. Anyway, I don't know: should I fill you in on everything that's happening? I don't know what to do.
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess I don't usually feel like I have to be filled in with all the details. Whatever you think I need to know to get the right idea.
PATIENT: I guess...okay...what's happening is - what's making me really unhappy - is that I am living with a bunch of...I am living with, well, three people - three girls - one of which has been my best...and I guess that has been the beginning of the whole problem...she was my closest friend, this girl that I was really intimately involved with. In my head, she was the person I cared about more than any man that I've been, you know, related to or anything. She is just like a super-important person and I was the same thing to her. She has always had a boyfriend too. I had never lived with her before and that was a big thing for me to do. I have always wanted to live with her and last year - we all got apartments in our third year - and last year was the first year that we could live in apartments. I really wanted to live with her but it didn't work out because I was out of school and didn't come back and (inaudible 5:39). And it was a really big thing to live with her.
COUNSELOR: Because you had been looking forward to it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you wanted to for such a long time.
PATIENT: Yeah. And the summer: we spent a month of it together traveling around Texas and had a really beautiful time. I felt really close. When we back, she was really ambivalent about me living there.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm. 0:05:59.3
PATIENT: And I knew it, but I wanted it so much that I figured it would work. And all of a sudden I met this other girl, Jodie, who was living there, who I was friends with but not really deeply. And I don't feel unadulterated or eclipsed - so long as I felt good about it - sometimes I do. This other girl - who I really didn't know at all - is pretty crazy. She used to go to school here. She is, I mean...anyway. What happened was first Diane just got - because we were really close and she didn't want to be close to me anymore, for whatever reasons in her head. She felt I was demanding and just my being close to her in itself was demanding too much. She got really negative: everything she did was negative and that started really bringing me down because she was the person I felt really was the closest and all she was doing was really negative vibes. We talked about it and she told me the reason she was doing it was because she felt really close to me; she was hotter on me than anyone else. But that didn't help her in the end - it got worse and worse. And this is when Tanya moved in: it was her friend and not mine. They got really close and...
COUNSELOR: And you were on the outside.
PATIENT: They did this exclusion thing. I (inaudible 7:19) really high inclusion needs so it was really hard on me. It started this really negative cycle of really being down, really picking up and then excluding me and making me uptight. The more uptight I got, the more angry they were getting about me being uptight - they were. So it just polarized everything and the apartment got worse and worse. I feel like I managed to continue to feel pretty good about myself; that my self worth wasn't as precarious as I figured it would be. I felt okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It felt hard. I had to really hold it together, you know.
COUNSELOR: You know, being able to see how, like, very easily it could make you fell just crappy about yourself. Not letting that happen but still...
PATIENT: Yeah, and then it just got worse and worse. Tanya is a really strange character too and she kind of plays a role playing part. She is considered crazy so she is given license to do whatever she wants and to act whatever way she wants but she is a crazy, exceptional girl. I think she is pretty interesting; I really think she is neat but I think the thing about she is given license to do whatever she wants is ridiculous. She doesn't have to be responsible. She just kind of shoved me to the edge of her universe: I just wasn't important at all. And then it got worse and worse. The thing is, I mean, I felt caught in the way I was thinking. I don't feel that...I became real close to Diane and I became real close to Jen and I know that they like me - or they have liked me - but I can't understand why they don't now. I noticed (inaudible 9:44) relationship is but I can't understand what it is...I keep on feeling like they have decided they don't like me and they just don't relate to me anymore. They don't bother to think about their reasons for not wanting to deal with me or anything else. They just say, "Okay, we don't like Stacy."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And that doesn't sound right when I think about it theoretically at all but that is just how I feel about it. At this point, I am just...
COUNSELOR: You've been written off.
PATIENT: Yeah, and at this point I suggested...we had a kind of an apartment-ish talk and I said, "Well, what do you think we should do about this horrible state?" And it was kind of them saying, "Well, implicitly we would like you to move out."
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: So now I'm going to decide that I should move out Because at this point it is ridiculous.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: But then I just feel cut off from my whole world because my apartment is where I spent all my time with the people there. I feel like I have been totally rejected. It is just really unpleasant to have to (inaudible 10:55)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. It was your place and now you are losing it.
PATIENT: That's for sure. The thing is like, you know, I feel like...I don't know, I guess I am angry with them because they don't want to work at it because they don't care enough and they don't (inaudible 11:24) to work at it, whatever it is, which kind of says to me that they don't care enough. And also I just have no other place to go really. 
COUNSELOR: Alright, so you aren't going to too many places. You are just being cast out into...
PATIENT: Yeah, and I keep on thinking, my logic for moving out was that it wasn't any good for me: I wasn't getting my head together - to live there. It was only in knowing them....I know the basic reason that I am moving out is because I know knowing them, it is not for me, it's... 0:12:04.3
COUNSELOR: They want you to - not because you want to go.
PATIENT: Right, and I would put it across that way. I mean, they don't think that - or think that I think that, but inside I really do.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Because I don't really want to live anywhere else but there. And especially like I have this little room that's all windows and I have spent hours and hours fixing it up. It's just like this beautiful little place that's just mine. I guess also, I mean, regardless of all this shit that has happened, I really like them all individually - just how they think and what kind of people they are. I feel like they just decided that something is annoying and they don't want to deal with it so they are pushing me off. And they can do that because they have really (inaudible 12:58) it through. And that's the thing about excluding somebody (inaudible 13:01) it makes everybody else so much closer. I feel like I've been more of a scapegoat because...also they all lived together last year, so I was also the newcomer to the situation. So I also feel like I am a newcomer and a scapegoat and that thing happened - people talk about that happening in groups - and made them closer. But I don't think they are dealing with reality of me at all. I think that...I don't know. Another thing is I can't make them if they don't want to and that is all there is to it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you are left feeling angry and resigned - just scared I guess.
PATIENT: Yeah. Luckily, I have (inaudible 13:59) with panic, which means I am not thinking about that; I am thinking about other things.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's like lucky that I am still above water enough to be able to do it.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: But I am kind of not dealing with it. I don't know if I am talking really reserved - I mean, I can't tell. Sometimes when I talk about something to somebody, I get removed from it when I am telling them how I feel about it. Just like all these things start happening, like I don't...I really feel like people are a large part of their situation, like who they are and it is a lot to do with their situation. And it's real hard to hold onto a good opinion about myself. 0:15:12.0
COUNSELOR: I know - it is a lousy situation.
PATIENT: Yeah, and also if I could hate them and think they were real horrible people it would be easier because then I could say, "Well, they just don't know me."
COUNSELOR: But you can't...
PATIENT: But as it is...and I can't understand what it is that annoying them and they don't either. I have this funny feeling that they have just kind of decided to not like me. What happens a lot of time is, like, we sit around in the kitchen and everybody starts rapping and we have a really nice time and I'd say I am as much part of it being a good time as they are.
COUNSELOR: You feel warmed the moment.
PATIENT: I feel warmed for the moment and then all of a sudden we all go to sleep and the next morning everybody hates Stacy again. I keep on feeling it doesn't have much basis in reality - over the situation. They have just kind of decided and somehow it unites them and somehow that is really good for them but it is f****** me over totally.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: But I can't...and having me out of the apartment kind of reduces a trouble spot for them. You know, they don't...I don't know, but I don't think they have any conception of ...that it is going to be really difficult for me to live any...you know, to move at this point. I don't think it would help me to move in with a bunch of people that I didn't know. I'd be moving in with a bunch of graduate students who have a (inaudible 16:54). I just couldn't do that.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: I guess it's also really hard because it's something that I have wanted to do for so long - I wanted to live (inaudible 17:14). And they are just easily writing me off. So I start thinking about what I have done. All this happened two nights ago and I started getting hesitant about being around them.
COUNSELOR: A-ha.
PATIENT: And then they get angry that I'm not forward; that when I walk into a room - a bunch of people talking in a room - that I would stand on the outside. I would, like, stand against the doorway. Of course I would stand against the doorway because for the past 10 weeks I have been getting all sorts of negative vibes when I come in. Of course I am going to get uptight about getting in - they have no empathy. 0:18:12.1
COUNSELOR: Yeah. First they do it to you and then they mind because you react to it. 
PATIENT: And I guess also they were feeling...something they did say was that I was young - that was their defense. And I am young - like 19. Tanya's 24 - and a really dumb 24 - and Diane's 21; (Inaudible 18:43) 21. But I think what they mean by that is not young chronologically but young in my head. I don't feel that way. I feel like that is some kind of bullshit that they put it on. Okay, she is young and that's what it is.
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: But that doesn't ring any bell with me at all - it doesn't make any sense. I'm really insecure there and that's really true but that's because I feel they have made it that way for me. Not because I...
COUNSELOR: Not your being insecure and bringing it on yourself or something.
PATIENT: I don't feel, basically, that insecure a person. I just have a feeling like they have decided that I am all these characteristics and haven't really bothered to find out if I really am or not.
COUNSELOR: They haven't really looked.
PATIENT: But also it really has to be a two way street. I mean, it must...I mean, it can't...
COUNSELOR: You can't just beat on their door. It isn't going to change their mind or anything. It sort of leaves you not one of them; not really understanding why. 
PATIENT: The thing is, I guess also...because they haven't done any of this helpfully...helpful...I mean, the things about me that they find hard to take, or something, they haven't tried to help me look at them and say, "Look Stacy, we find this behavior (inaudible 20:41). None of it has been done to help me; it's all been done to (inaudible 20:49) against me. And the other thing is I don't understand why I still like them. 0:21:00.2 
They're an exciting, crazy bunch of people. I guess that is what really draws me. I've also got this real old memories of (inaudible 21:17) of Diane, which isn't so much memory nowadays. It's not such a far distant past.
COUNSELOR: It was such a good feeling at the time.
PATIENT: And then there are just all sorts of other things that come along too, like I've made them the focus of my attention and stuff. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It's hard to imagine yourself with anyone else, focusing anywhere else because you have been turned towards them.
PATIENT: Yeah, and also particularly like...I don't know; when I'm home, I'm there and it's good. I just feel like it is really...Like, lots of times I've been over at somebody's...I've lots of friends and it's really true, I probably know three quarters of them from being undergraduates here, having lived in Central Park and just being a pretty sociable person. But there is a whole world which kind of surrounds this apartment. It's a really kind of important type apartment. You know how there is a hierarchy of Central Park apartments and I really feel like that is right. Lots of times I am at other places just visiting...I don't know how to describe this.
COUNSELOR: Like being in the provinces instead of being in the capital. 0:23:56.9
PATIENT: Right, right. I just haven't...This is (inaudible 24:17), really feeling like this place is my home but getting no positive vibes - a funny contradiction of how can I still think of it as my home, the place that I want to be in and I like theses people and they don't like me. They don't want to live with me - they don't want me living there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I feel both of them really strongly.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And just like, you know, I've been in other people's apartments, I've always been glad that I didn't live there and now I'm going to have to leave the place that I do want to live in and go and live in one of those apartments that I didn't want to live - if I can even do that. 
COUNSELOR: Partly, they are good people. They are the kind of people you like - they are the kind of people you admire. If you met them again next week, you would think, 'Gee, these people are just wonderful." Like, so what do you do?
PATIENT: Yeah, and then also how do I...the thing is, and since they are the people that I...and the other thing that happens is...I am, like, considered a ...I don't know, I am, like, a well known and pretty much well liked person. I've been around the campus. Lots of people know me and I know lots of people. I feel like...I guess this happens especially with men too, a lot of guys that like me want to do a thing but I don't want to. Somehow it seems like all the people who like me are people that I don't really...I like, but I don't really want to explore and get into them. This group of people that I've chosen to really like and want to get into - none of them want me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:26:57.9
PATIENT: Just also, it doesn't seem right. I feel like I'm...When I start getting generally uptight and real self conscious - real conscious of what I am saying with decent people - thinking that it's inventive or thinking that it's neat or something. Whenever I get into proving myself, it's, of course, horrible. I mean, there is just no way to...it's like this double bond; there is no possible way you can move anywhere in that kind of...and that is how I started getting...and that timidity, that timidity is stuff that I can't take. I really get angry myself when I get scared to walk into a room. 
COUNSELOR: Walking in and facing them not wanting you. How you walk in typically and disturb anything.
PATIENT: Right, right, and that just makes me even angrier and for some reason I am not...I am feeling like...what I've ended up doing is just really distancing myself from it, like for the past two days. I don't feel real emotional about it. I mean, I do but not as crazy or as involved in it as I would usually be because I have sat really far back and start dealing with (inaudible 29:06).
COUNSELOR: Something is going through my mind: I am thinking, "Jesus, this girl is talking some distant layers; she has all these problems but she doesn't really sound involved.
PATIENT: You know, I guess I must be Because that is what I always end up saying. Yeah, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I don't think so necessarily - I didn't meant to pin that on you.
PATIENT: I just feel like I'm...it's just my nature of not having known you before and telling you all sorts of intimate things, it is hard to do.
COUNSELOR: You have to move to something new. 0:29:51.0
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess also because I have never been in a situation where I, like, just sit down and spill my guts to somebody and not know who they are at all. So I feel like, there is a thing that happened before I came here: what I actually did was I asked two friends of mine I thought might know, if they knew anyone named Rene Thompson (inaudible 30:21) and they both said yes and I wouldn't let them tell me anything about you! Because all of a sudden it was like, okay, when I walk in, I'm like...it is just (inaudible 30:43) anything that happens. I guess it is like first impressions. It was either I would walk in and say that I couldn't talk or try. I walked in and I felt just automatically that...I mean, there was this trust thing. It has no basis yet because I don't know you yet but it felt okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the first time, yeah.
PATIENT: But I still don't know how to deal with it. I still feel real ill at ease. And also because I have just been distancing myself a whole lot from it in my head. I'm not so sure how much I want to delve right back into it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah - after all of this.
PATIENT: At this moment: I think that mostly has to do with today. I have a test in about two and a half hours.
COUNSELOR: Right, and you'd like to be (inaudible 31:34) for your test.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: It's hard to want to get that 100, even aside from functioning.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So that all makes you feel, I don't know, slightly funny: what should you be saying and how should you be doing them.
PATIENT: I kind of also wish that I could somehow give you an emotional picture of my house somehow so you could see it. Because I keep on feeling like the things I say about feeling kind of victimized; I don't want to sound victimized because I know that theoretically it takes two to tango, but that is really how I feel. I don't want you to think that I feel that way, even if I do.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you don't want be to see you as a professional victim person.
PATIENT: Right, because I don't feel that way. That's the other thing: I feel like the situation that's happening to me now is really...I mean, I don't understand where it came from, you know. And also, everybody's opinion of me is so untogether: that's what they are feeling about me - I'm so untogether they don't want to live with me. I just don't feel at all like that's been how I am. 0:33:06.6
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm. 
PATIENT: And I can't imagine how I feel about myself can be so incredibly discrepant from how they feel about me. But it really does. Just little things like...I mean, little responsibilities that I have never been able to really deal with well before like keeping my room clean and washing dishes all the time - just all sorts of things that took me a long time because basically I was really sloppy - I have really gotten together. It's not compulsive with me but I always wash the dishes if they are in the sink; I don't leave stuff for other people; I clean up the living room. And that to me is indicative of things getting together in my head but they don't even see any of that - I don't even want to talk to them about that. And all they, you know...So they see me as really untogether and what happens is I start seeing myself as untogether. I guess that's what I get scared about: who's defining me? And the thing is, I don't know. The way I'm feeling...
COUNSELOR: It does make you have doubts.
PATIENT: It's not to the point where I am completely shaky but it really does make me have doubts. If everybody around you is saying you are untogether, then it is really hard...
COUNSELOR: To feel like you're together!
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: There is something in you that is fairly convinced that you are together though. 
PATIENT: There is something in me convinced that I am strong and not the weak person they are making me out to be. I mean, I don't feel together definitely but I don't feel the kinds of things the are saying that I am. And the parts of things they are saying that I am, that I do feel are true, I really feel like they are making me into those things. I don't feel like that is naturally who I am.
COUNSELOR: Not naturally insecure.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Naturally timid.
PATIENT: Right - not at all. And the thing is, I guess what happens is I start feeling swelled by this cycle. I don't feel naturally insecure but they are giving me all these negative vibes, so I start getting insecure. Then they get angry at me for that and get even more exclusive, so I feel like I'm caught up in that. I guess me (inaudible 36:05). It's the first I belonged to. 
COUNSELOR: It's just that room.
PATIENT: I'm really lucky with my room - I really love my room.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You're really happy there.
PATIENT: And I also feel like there must have been a big difference in how much they cared about me and I cared about them. I feel like I am having the hardest time - it's annoying to them for me to be in the apartment. It's not...
COUNSELOR: It's not painful. 0:36:56.1
PATIENT: It's not painful like it is for me but somehow they are the ones who are being...I don't know. There are also all sorts of other things that go into it. Like it was the first time that I really felt like I had moved out of my parents' house. I have not lived with my parents for three years but I lived across the country. It's the first time I felt like their home wasn't mine. I had made my own home and I had my own family and then it fell through. And then this thing happened.
COUNSELOR: You have lost your family.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So there it is. 0:39:34.3
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm losing it living there anyway. Whatever way, I am losing it. And living there, which is holding on in some way - I won't do that.
COUNSELOR: It would make you feel better.
PATIENT: Yeah. I was having this talk again last night and this morning we got up and had breakfast together because we had gotten up early and had a really nice breakfast. We were talking about something - I can't remember what it was. And I said something that was really funny and cracked up and then they kind of gave me a surprised look like, "Gee!"
COUNSELOR: There's something to her after all.
PATIENT: Yeah, and that keeps on happening. We keep on having bad talks and then a good time and they just happen to hate me again. I feel like it is this irrational thing that they are doing and the reality of who I am doesn't affect it.
COUNSELOR: There's no way back in.
PATIENT: Back in the house?
COUNSELOR: And to their liking.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess because I don't feel like it is anything that I can rationally deal with. And probably the only way to get back in is to move out. Maybe we can solve it through the friendship that I have with them, but I am not so sure how much I believe that. I think that's like what I have been saying for the past two days to (inaudible 41:50)
COUNSELOR: Make yourself believe that you still have something. 
PATIENT: Right, because a lot of it is because their whole world is around that apartment. They never go outside of it - they never go to anybody else's apartment. It's really crazy. 0:42:02.6
COUNSELOR: People come there.
PATIENT: People come there - exactly. And nobody's going to go out to come to me and I am not going to feel comfortable to go there. I've just kind of lost them and it's the every dayness of people is what seems almost to make you closer. And whatever possibility of that, I've just lost it. I haven't even begun to think of (inaudible 42:44) problems of living somewhere else. 
COUNSELOR: Something else struck me about what you said: you've been proud to live there too.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean,. I feel icky about being affected by it because somehow I think it is bullshit but there is something about...I mean, it is like this special place with status or something.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I feel icky about being affected by that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. There is something crappy about it.
PATIENT: It's the wrong reason to...underneath the status are the right reasons, like their reasons. I guess that is a part of it and also that whole world of people that I was just beginning to know. I mean, not them - because I knew them - but the whole other group of people with circles around there. Lots of people do. Theoretically, there are all sorts of things about that world I don't like. They are really exclusive people and they sit around and make judgments about people and laugh about people that they don't think are as crazy and brilliant as they are. 0:45:20.2
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: And theoretically I don't like any of that. I don't think that is a good way to be with people or treat people but I get sucked...it's like (inaudible 45:29) the aggressor. I'm convinced that they somehow are special people. And I guess I feel less special because I am not allowed to be in that. That's really shitty, that whole...
COUNSELOR: The whole status thing; the special thing; and the "better than" thing.
PATIENT: That's not something that I look to as a good thing but I am still attracted to it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm really attracted to the...
COUNSELOR: To belong to the most special people.
PATIENT: Yeah. The thing is, I always got reaction too. Maybe it's a deception but I really like when I'm...just somehow when I'm with them, I'm in the right place. When I'm with other people, I am always wondering what is happening somewhere else - do you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah - I think now I do. You're in a place where what's interesting and important is happening - you're not missing something.
PATIENT: Yeah, and that's always been a really big thing, ever since I was a little kid. I would have to know what everybody was doing; where everybody was. It was really insane: I would go to three different people's houses the same night just to make sure there wasn't something going on that I didn't know about; that I wasn't part of. And finally I had gotten over that by living in my apartment because I would have felt that I was in the center. That's not good stuff but it is still something that really happens down there in me, so it is really hard to intellectualize that - that that's not right and I should lose that.
COUNSELOR: It's down there - you're having to step down. 0:48:03.5
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Down there; you feel like you are having to take a step down.
PATIENT: Right, right. It's like it resolves itself into a problem of how can I start feeling good about myself again. (Inaudible 49:30) or something.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I really do feel like, you know, when the people you've picked feel bad about you, it's real hard to feel good about yourself. And I guess that is the other thing I get really caught up in: the people that do really like me - think I'm this really right-on chick - I don't have all that much respect for.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You don't like the sound of that - it sounds snobby or something.
PATIENT: I guess it's also maybe in some way I feel like I'm deceiving them - they are, like, able to be deceived.
COUNSELOR: Oh, like you are letting them think that you respect them.
PATIENT: No, no.
COUNSELOR: Oh, deceiving them that you're...yeah.
PATIENT: Deceiving them that I...actually, on balance I feel like a whole bunch of a response to how people see me like. Certain people I know like me, I'm just a whole bunch more comfortable around and therefore a lot more likeable or whatever. I guess that is how it always goes though, isn't it? People that you are not comfortable around and they don't like you, of course you are not as comfortable around them and not as likeable. 0:51:00.5
COUNSELOR: That is a different perspective. It seems right - natural. Instead of...you are sort of letting yourself get defined.
PATIENT: But I still feel like I am letting myself get to the point. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Letting you...feeling bad about yourself Because they see it that way.
PATIENT: I guess the thing is that I do start to act uptight when people don't like me.
COUNSELOR: A-ha. 
PATIENT: That's true, I do, but I don't think I act uptight before they don't like me. It's a response to it. I guess that is letting yourself be defined in some way. I don't know: most people react to other people. I don't know, I'm getting real...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, (inaudible 52:16) paying off there.
PATIENT: Yeah. The other thing that happens is that I can't make any generalizations on who I am or anything because whenever I say something about myself and I realize the opposite is just as true as what I've just said. So I don't think about it. I feel like I've been keeping myself pretty well together considering the situation but I also feel that I have been really uptight. 0:54:41.3
COUNSELOR: I don't know where I got this from - something about the way you are talking to me - you are also confused.
PATIENT: That's for sure! It's also that I feel really distanced. It's like I am talking about somebody who isn't me right now. Like I really want to talk to (inaudible 55:20) . I feel it could have gone somewhere just because I was really in it. And now there are times when I just get really spaced and I can't decide what I am even talking about.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I just feel like that now. So maybe what we should do is just wait until the next time I see you. I just feel like I am spacing myself farther away from it instead of focusing on (inaudible 55:49)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you seem to be seeking a way.
PATIENT: I virtually am! (chuckles) (Inaudible 56:01) or whatever.
COUNSELOR: We are see each other for 10 sessions, twice a week. I may be away for a week at Christmas.
PATIENT: I'll probably be away for a week at Christmas too. Where are you going?
COUNSELOR: Kansas City.
PATIENT: Is that for fun?
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: Okay, do we (inaudible 56:51)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Next Monday.
PATIENT: Okay. I mean, I don't think I can co-relate it with days I am upset so I will be able to talk to you!
COUNSELOR: (Chuckles)
PATIENT: That's really creative (inaudible 57:07)
COUNSELOR: Oh thanks
PATIENT: Did you make it?
COUNSELOR: My mother did.
PATIENT: Is she in Kansas City?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Are you married?
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible 57:25)
PATIENT: I didn't (inaudible 57:26) before. When I started to want to see a therapist which was, I guess, when I came back home in September, I started thinking about a therapist then. I once talked to Corin Johnston - just socially - and I liked him a lot. My sister's been in therapy really extensively, which is for a long time and she has told me a lot about it. It seems like there is this thing that has happened lots of times between women and therapy with men. It wasn't necessarily very helpful. At first I wanted to go to a male therapist because it would have been nice to have somebody who would like all of me and still like me and stuff but I would be going to a male therapist for the wrong reasons. It would be like f***** up things about men and that wouldn't be good. Then I got talking to a friend of mine - Sarah - who's really the one that talked me into it. She said it would be really good to see a woman therapist and it would be a really important thing. So I'm really glad that I listened to her because that's a whole other thing that is easier to deal with. You're probably much more help to me in the direction that I want to go.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of funny: what we're doing right now is sort of accepting each other. You're saying, "I'm glad to have you." And I'm saying, "I'm glad to have her."
PATIENT: That's nice to know. And when are you free?
COUNSELOR: I'm free all week essentially. You might want to fit me in around your exams or something.
PATIENT: Yeah, do you know when I have exams? I guess I have one Thursday; I have one Friday and then I was going to go away Friday to Chicago for a couple of days and then come back. When are you going away?
COUNSELOR: I'm going away Monday and I won't be back until a week from Wednesday. 1:00:03.3
PATIENT: You're going away Monday and you won't be back until a week from Wednesday. I don't have any concept of time.
COUNSELOR: We can make one appointment for next week and maybe one appointment for late, eh, the week of new year's.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Is that this Thursday?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Okay, why don't we do it this Thursday in the afternoon?
COUNSELOR: Okay, four o'clock?
PATIENT: Fine.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Do you do therapy every time here?
COUNSELOR: Here - just here.
PATIENT: Did you go to school here.
COUNSELOR: I still am - (inaudible 60:51) School. (Inaudible 60:56) too.
PATIENT: The person I heard your name from was...and I maybe ought to go back and ask her - I wouldn't let her tell me anything. I don't know if you know her or not. I don't know if you remember her but her name is Emma (inaudible 61:22)
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah, I know Emma, sure.
PATIENT: I lived with her - she is one of my friends. 
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah.
PATIENT: She'll stand by me if you pick a fight. She is really strange though. 
COUNSELOR: I haven't seen Emma for a long time. She's (inaudible 61:40)
PATIENT: Yeah, she's changed a whole lot. We have been friends for a long time - from high school.
COUNSELOR: Oh really?
PATIENT: Yeah. It's a nice thing to have that kind of a relationship too. One that you grow through and they know your history and where you come from. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Do you know what to do with that?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: There is a box behind the glass window downstairs and you just stick them in the box.
PATIENT: And they write it down.
COUNSELOR: Yes, right. 1:02:13.5
END TRANSCRIPT
