*TEXT-PV010088   Thursday   13 February 1969          2308 2134   18  156
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Pause) When I left yesterday, I, uhm, suddenly became aware of the fact that, well, at least at the end, I, I was asking about different things the question, why.  And I just started thinking about the fact that I've always felt the need to ask the question, why, about just about anything.  And I can just hear different people, including MSCZ or my parents, saying that, "Why do you have to ask why so much?"  Or, "You're always asking why."  And I don't know quite why I (laughs) — there I go again but, uhm, I just can't, never have been able to really accept things the way they are.  It's probably more than that, but feeling that there's something I don't know about things but also lots of times it's, why are things that way, why aren't they another way?  And it's, reflects on me, too, why am I not something else.  Or, why can't I make myself be something else?  (3-minute silence)
After saying that, I think I, I began to think about a woman who once was one of MSCZ's teachers.  And we went to visit her last night in a hospital where she's having some tests.  And I think I was thinking of something that occurred at the end of our visit, when we had been talking about, uhm, just sort of the way things are today with people.  And, uhm, I don't know, as, as far as I can recall, she began by saying things were worse, that people were worse than they used to be and there were fewer morals or ethics or anything.  And, uhm, both MSCZ and I, in slightly different ways, were saying that, sort of the overall pattern isn't worse, it's, different things might be worse but then other things might be better.  And, in any case, it probably made us sound as if we accepted everything as the way it was, although that wasn't our point.  And when we parted, she just, well, I think she felt she had to make some very sort of smart sounding comments.  And, uhm, I don't know, I just felt as if she were kind of being nasty to us.  She, sh—, because she implied, "Well, I can see you're happy with the way things are right now and you accept the status quo."  And for some reason, her saying that made me very angry at her for a little bit.  And it also made me, well, I don't know, just think, maybe I shouldn't have said what I was because it gave her that impression and, instead of just not caring what she thought.
ANALYST: But you felt angry with her.
PATIENT:  Yes, because I attached to her saying it a sort of, well, unfriendly motive, which may or may not be fair.  I don't know her very well and, and I don't understand sometimes exactly what, how she functions.  But I have always felt that, uhm, she resents me in a way or that she'd just sort of like to forget I'm there.  Because she had a fairly, for a teacher, fairly close relationship with MSCZ.  And, uhm, she kind of has to accept me now that I'm married to him but she doesn't seem to be overly anxious to.  So I think I'm apt to be very defensive.  I don't know, that's not quite right either, because I mean, on the whole, we're very friendly with each other but there're just little things that sometimes bother me about her.  And that was just one. (Pause)
But when I was thinking about her a few minutes ago, when I wasn't saying anything, I had thought of that incident but then I was sort of vaguely thinking about her and as if that wasn't really what made her come to my mind.  And I don't know exactly why she did.  Except that, after visiting her, I just felt very depressed.  I found the whole ho—, thing of being in the hospital very depressing.  And I felt sort of depressed and lethargic today.  And I didn't, I've rarely felt as much as I did today, that I just didn't want to be in school.  And there was absolutely no time today when I enjoyed being in the school and teaching the children.  I, I just somehow couldn't get involved in it at all.
And I kept telling myself, well, it's because I, we got to bed late because we didn't get out of the hospital until quite late.  And, uhm, then we had to go eat.  And that makes a very good excuse but I don't think that's it.  Because other times I can get along without much sleep and I don't feel this way.  And I, I don't know, she's, it might be that, uhm, from what I can gather and from what both MSCZ and a friend of his, who also was at school with MSCZ, have said, she's always been a hypochondriac and she certainly is now.  She's always got something wrong with her.  And, it's not that there isn't a basis for all these things but they just occupy her completely and, uhm, she's also, ever since I've known her, which is since MSCZ and I were married, been bogged down by property she has in PAI and what to do with herself.  And these are all problems that —- she's I would imagine, in her sixties so they are problems for a person to face.  But I don't know, just somehow she just seems so completely bogged down by them.  And so she's, I see her that way and then I hear stories about what a sort of an amazing person she was because she was so intelligent in a school where there weren't that many outstandingly intelligent people.  And yet I've rarely seen her functioning in that way.  And maybe this is something that disturbs me about her.  Or just the fact that she is so bogged down and it's seeing it in somebody else is uncomfortable because often I feel that way. (Silence)
I think I also have the feeling that, although yesterday I could have gone on thinking about the things I was thinking about, once that time was over I just put everything out of my mind.  And so that today I can't get back to it.  And, and yet maybe that's what is on my mind.  Because somehow I don't feel today I can get into anything.  And I know last night, 1 or 2 times I began thinking about just the things I'd been talking about.  And it made me feel so uncomfortable or whatever the word would be to describe how I felt, that I couldn't even think about it.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Yeah, I won—, find myself wondering if, uhm, the way you're feeling the way you describe your feeling today, sort of not interested in going to school and feeling bogged down, it, it occurs to me that, eh, this was my impression of the way you were describing the way you feel if you're constipated.  That, you said it colors your whole feeling and your whole day when you don't have a bowel movement.  You feel sort of low-key, I gather.  And that's what you seem to be describing.
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, it sort of is, but, what I was thinking after you said that was that I associate that feeling specifically with not having a bowel movement.  And since I did today, I can't understand what else could make me feel that way.  Or, I don't know, just why I would.  (Pause) Except that it just occurred to me that constipated is a good word for sort of my, the whole way I live, the way I react to a lot of things.  (4-minute silence)
I began to think of, uhm, (clears throat) something that happened today when the boy that I've always felt, underneath everything, is quite a sad little boy, who's parents are divorced or at least separated, ah, he came, his mother had not come to parents' day yesterday because she said, he said to me that she was sick.  And then today she came to pick him up at school and brought her mother.  And so they wanted to go up to see the room.  And he was showing them around when I came back upstairs.  But there was really no communication between the grandmother and mother and the boy.  They were both sort of talking about different things and neither one was really entering into what the other one was saying at all.  And just the way he was kind of, well, I was going to say distracted or abstracted, I don't know exactly the word, but, in any case, not really communicating with them, made me think again of this same feeling, that both I associate when I do feel constipated and just with this sort of general feeling today.
And, well, if I apply the term, constipated more generally to my whole life, the way so often I feel, just kind of abstracted from the things that are going on around me, that so often I feel there's something else that I should be giving me attention to.  And once I do that, then I can give it to what's happening around me but I'm very often not really quite sure what the other thing is that I should be giving my attention to or else, probably a lot of times there's something on my mind that I don't want to be there.  So I'm sort of unconsciously fighting against it.  But I do do so often feel the way it seemed to me he was feeling today when he was with his parent—, his mother and his grandmother.
ANALYST: Is this, ah, feeling typical at all of, eh, your periods or is that, is this —?
PATIENT:  I don't think so.  I don't know.
ANALYST: Ah.
PATIENT:  You mean, you mean, feeling sort of lethargic and so forth.
ANALYST: Umhmm.
PATIENT:  I don't think so because, uhm, except for right before the first day when I'm inclined to be more easily upset, then after that it, I can have a fairly easy time, depending upon, or not so easy, depending upon how other things are going.  And, I mean, sometimes after that, I don't even notice that I have it or sometimes it'll really bother me.  Like today it seemed to be really bothering me but it's almost as if other things are and, and I used having my period as an excuse for feeling uncomfortable.  And sort of an excuse, too, for not really coping because I think that's what I was doing this morning.  Plus adding being tired to it, it made it sort of a finished case of, well, of course I wasn't going to be able to cope it those 2 things were present.  But I'm not sure quite what I was feeling I couldn't cope with, except sort of generally being around people.  (3-minute silence)
And another thing that, uhm, has sort of hung over me all day, I guess, is the feeling that the day is never going to end.  It's, a day like this, when it's such a hard day to get through just because of the way I feel and then it, it's going to be such a long day because after this I have my class and then, after that, we're going to go to somebody's house for a little while.  And, I don't know, it just, what I want to do I think, is just go home and be alone and maybe just go to bed but anyway, just sort of be away from people.  And it seems like the day is just never going to end.  And I think, I haven't really thought about it because I won't let myself, but the course this semester is, uhm, being run more with us working as groups within the class.  And I think this is disturbing me.  Because I'm very much afraid of the pressures I'll feel when I, when it's not, when I had hardly been able to do things just to please myself, then to work in a group you have to be much more secure on how you feel about things yourself.  So I think I'm probably underneath everything, quite worried about that.  (10-minute silence)
In between the things that I've said, I keep thinking of school again.  And, uhm, they're all things that, as I always done, I don't feel they're things I should talk about here.  Because either it's just sort of going over different things that happened during the day and, I don't know, remembering them makes me feel good or else it's thinking of things that I could do or could change.  But they're just, they, they are all things that I have, for some reason, decided that I'm not going to talk about.  (Pause) And in thinking about the day, too, it almost seems as if I'm going over it to sort of add up how many mistakes I did make and of them, how many I made that can't be rectified some other time, how many are so bad that there's really no way to make it better.  And when I see I can take care of them or that things worked out well, then it makes me feel good.  But I suppose one reason I don't want to talk about them is that sometimes they just seem such small or silly things to be thinking about.
ANALYST: Almost as though it were some sort of waste material or waste matter, huh?
PATIENT:  Yes.
ANALYST: Ah, I did say last week, I would let you know about Tuesday.  I won't be able to change the time, eh, I'm afraid.  I'm sorry.  Our time's up.
