*TEXT-PV010002 Tuesday, September 24, 19683706
______________________________________________________________________________
(This is how the tape begins after a 5 minute run of no sound)
PATIENT:  -- ask about uhm, I think uhm, some days I like coming at this time but other times I think it might, I, I find I really, well, it's -- I haven't tried going home yet, but it's quite a bit to go home and then come in again and, and waiting until 5 o'clock.  I just wonder if during the winter it's going to uhm, be quite a long wait.  I didn't know again, whether you'd have any time earlier in the afternoon.  But I, you know, as I say, I haven't tried going home yet so I don't know how that would be.
ANALYST:   Well, a week from tomorrow I could see you at 2:00.
PATIENT:  Uhum.
ANALYST:   Monday, if you wish.
PATIENT:  Uhum.  That would be good.
ANALYST:   And as far as changing the time, well, perhaps we can see how, uhum, it works out as it goes along.
PATIENT:  (Pause) I've had a funny reaction to -- yesterday I felt at times sort of that, related is too strong a word but I can see how just looking at things that sometimes I guess you're used to just pushing to the back of your mind you can work out some kind of an understanding.  And, and then it doesn't have to be quite so upsetting to you when you're going through the same reaction again.  But on the other hand, I keep feeling very nervous (chuckle) about this and I don't know why I feel nervous.  I remember thinking after yesterday afternoon, that I found it very disturbing to just talk and, and have no reaction nor no interchange and began to try to figure -- I was just thinking about well, why would I have this reaction?  And it does seem I sort of look for well, encouragement, but also sort of approval as I'm talking.  And that (clears throat) unless I'm getting that I just don't like (chuckle) talking at all.
ANALYST:   Or maybe assurance that I'm really listening?
PATIENT:  Well, that too perhaps.  But also that -- (Pause) I, I'm not sure if I thought it were -- I, I think I want an element of sympathy or some -- I don't, I don't know exactly what it is, but I think it has to be more than just listening.  I think I might be upset at negative listening.  Negative listening meaning that it's with disapproval.  Well, perhaps it is partly just assurance that you're listening because otherwise you feel you're in a room alone just talking aloud and it's kind of an uncomfortable feeling.  (Silence)
But I was just thinking about my reaction to just talking about the time of having the appointment and my almost fear of bringing it up.  Because, uhm, of your maybe not wanting to change it or not approving of my asking.  And this is the way I am about a lot of things.
ANALYST:   Why wouldn't I approve?
PATIENT:  (Chuckle) I don't know, I think I just assume you might not.  I think I must attach that emotional quality to lots of situations that are just --either you can or you can't, or a person can or can't, and (Silence)
I think I mentioned this before, but the, another thing that's just occurred to me that I, right now anyway, don't like doing.  And that is that in, in doing this you have to just keep talking about yourself.  (Pause) Just seems, almost I think it's being selfish or something.  (Silence)
And it seems too that so, so much of your time when you're conversing with other people you're trying to be concise and clear and to the point, and then drop the subject.  And now you spend your time going around in circles and being unclear, rattling on.  I suppose that's bothering me too about it.  And it's very hard to uhm, suddenly, just suddenly out of the blue start talking about something that you're so used to not talking about to anybody unless they're a particularly close friend or perhaps nobody.  (Silence)
I was just wondering if all the things I've just (chuckle) been saying are again just making up excuses so I avoid doing it.  (Silence) It seems like not only with me personally, but just with the way life is and certainly experiences I've had in teaching, that people spend more time and energy thinking of very good reasons and ones that sound very professionally sound and are articulated well for not doing, just getting down to basic things and just doing them.  I think this is probably one reason why I've been much happier at teaching this year and.  And it's, I just seem to be able to do things and not procrastinate.  I used to, well, I still do have trouble procrastinating and probably will start to again, but sometimes I just used to be almost incapacitated.  And I'd just have to keep telling myself, "Well, I'll do that tomorrow."  And I'll do that and I just wouldn't come to grips with any of it.  Or I'd convince myself that I didn't have the right information or I wasn't quite ready, or I didn't have the, didn't know enough about it so I have to research it.  And I wouldn't just feel the situation and then act accordingly in it.  (Silence)
But I often can feel myself torn at school too between feeling that I have some importance and I have to avoid being taken advantage of when people are constantly asking extra things and on the other hand, why not do them?  Why not be nice and do them?  And so I'm constantly torn between just doing them and then feeling sort of put upon if I do do all of them as well, sort of a stooge who, to whom anybody can come and you'll do anything.  (Pause)
And perhaps the reason I would do them anyway is a bid for friendship with the people who are asking it rather than truly feeling that it's a helpful thing.  (Pause) And that makes me think of just my inability to select and choose.  (4-Minute Silence)
I think I'm afraid of crying while I'm here too.  (Silence) I can't tell exactly what at, but I can sort of feel almost as if I'm just not letting some thoughts come to my mind.  (3 Minute Silence)
It's funny too, because if I just lie here and don't talk, I feel guilty.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   So I guess you're more afraid than you are guilty.
PATIENT:  Of what I'll say?
ANALYST:   Uhum.
PATIENT:  Yes, but then I keep thinking, well why should I feel guilty.  But I do.  (Silence) It's also sort of beyond or along with fear which I'm sure is part of it.  Uhm sometimes because I know I'm rejecting things to say that I'm too embarrassed to say them.  Because again I suppose that it comes back to maybe just being afraid of what you might think, if I say them.  Otherwise I guess I wouldn't be embarrassed.  (Pause)
I was just thinking too that I can just hear my voice in my ears and it, something that -- it's not just now, I, I've thought it -- that I have a very tentative way to say things.  And it just makes me so angry when I can hear myself doing this, always, "sort of," and "I guess" and things like that, and I don't know, not a rhythm, but the inflection my voice gets.  And then I get very annoyed at myself thinking well, I should just state things positively if that's what I'm thinking.  (Silence)
That made me think of the fact that a lot of years, I imagine mostly in my teens or well, younger too, so much of the time I really, well, I suppose it was, hated myself.  But also if I'd look at myself in the mirror I would hate what I saw in the mirror.  And I think once I was talking about that and my father related that I had once said that something about my ugly face and how I hated it.  And, and then I was just wondering how much you can take one thing like that and center around it a lot of other things that really aren't related.  And then kid yourself too and why you're thinking the way you are about yourself or, or what it means.  So I always thought that was very significant.  And then almost as if I sit back and don't do anything about it now because I have this wonderful significant thing.  (Pause)
And of course he didn't know what it meant at all, at least I don't think he did.  Except he took it almost personally as if, I don't know how to say it, but anyway I never felt he took it as anything related to me.  He took it as something related to himself and I found that very upsetting.  If he was going to remember the remark then he should have remembered it thinking about what it meant for me rather than what it meant for him.  Perhaps that's what's been wrong.  We've had a very hard relationship and perhaps that's what's been wrong.  He's been thinking about himself all the time and I've been thinking about myself.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   When were you supposed to have said that?
PATIENT:  I can't, I can't remember, but I'm sure it was uhm, when I was 10 or 11, someplace in that area.
But I, I know I felt like that all -- well, I've, I've always been sort of confused in a time sequence -- but I think I was quite a happy child.  And I was, I had a lot of energy and I was very adventurous.  And I, you know, often got hurt too, in being adventurous, but I really enjoyed trying new things.  And I was quite thin.  And then one year, it must have been when I was 9, I began to get really fat.  And also I, around that time maybe a little bit earlier, I, at some point anyway, I just stopped having any daring and I was just afraid of everything.  And, and I began to not like doing things.  I began to have, being aware of having trouble with people and feeling I had no friends and disliking myself.  So it could have been any time after, probably around 8 or 9.  It probably wasn't such a sudden change but it seemed it to me.  It just seemed like one time I was the person I liked being and then the next time I looked, thought about myself or looked at myself, I was something I just didn't want to be at all.
And I suppose right around that time I had to wear glasses and I don't know whether that had anything to do with it, because it seems at that young an age you wouldn't put that much on wearing glasses.  Although I used, it just came to my mind that I used to -- when going to school I didn't have to wear them outside of school, so I would carry them.  And I guess I had a lot of incidents when I would be walking to school and suddenly they would be out of my hand.  And I used to wonder what made my hand open up and I wouldn't even feel it.  Well, maybe I was just trying to get rid of them.  (Pause)
And I can remember feeling very -- later anyway, when I, when a girl would become more conscious of wearing glasses -- very resentful that it was me in the family who had to wear them and nobody else.  And I also, uh, a lot of us had trouble with our knees, and we had to have therapeutic work on that.  And I had the worst condition of the -- well my younger sister didn't have any trouble and my older sister had a little, but she didn't have to have any condition, any therapy on it.  And I also had to have work on my teeth.  And I can just remember thinking I had all the things wrong that anybody in the family would have wrong and I was very resentful.  (Silence)
I must have started, I think I started at around 3 having work on my teeth.  And I don't I must have sucked my thumb all the time before then but that was when I became aware of it.  And, and then I couldn't stop, because I was supposed to, because of the way my mouth was.  And even when I was oh, I guess around 8 maybe even no, maybe even 9 or 10, when I was at a summer camp I would, I would just be so afraid to go to sleep because I was so afraid I'd wake up sucking my thumb and everybody would see me.  And at that point it wasn't something where I consciously wanted to do it, it was just, it would happen in the middle of the night when I was asleep.  (Silence)
But then I'd be waiting to, when I was younger to go in to see the, the I don't know, the dentist, not the dentist, the orthodontist I guess he's called.  And I would suck my thumb there because I didn't think he'd ever come out, his sec--, his nurse would come out and sometimes he'd come out and find me and I would just be, I'd nearly die, because he'd caught me doing it.  But I don't remember my mother ever making anything of it unless it was just simply that to help my teeth I should stop.  I don't remember her making me feel guilty or uncomfortable or anything about it.  (Silence)
It's funny, whenever I say the word guilt, I, something to do with my father always comes to my mind and it doesn't seem to be at all related.  Just made me think of an evening -- and I have no idea of what I did or what was happening I can just remember we were in the living room and I must been, being fresh or talking back to him or something -- he just suddenly, it seemed to me anyway when I think about it, that he just suddenly grabbed me and started hitting me.  And perhaps I'd been crying too and, and he said, "If you're going to cry I'll give you something to cry about!"  (Chuckle) And it just seemed like he was in a rage and he just -- I don't recall being hurt.  I think I was just more afraid of this emotion he was under.  (Pause)
And I used to feel so defenseless against my older sister and she used to be just horrible to me, but I'd always seek her out.  I don't know, I was, I couldn't stay away from her if she were around.  And yet whenever I'd go near her she'd always be very nasty.  And one time we were doing something and I guess she punched me in the stomach and I wasn't, I was more outraged than hurt.  And I told my mother and my mother had always been able to keep very calm.  And she was going to hear the situation and she generally kept out of any of our fighting.  But we fought a terrific amount and this time it just seemed like she didn't really care about what had happened, or she wasn't listening, or didn't have the proper sympathy, so I demonstrated on her what had been done to me.  Only I think I put tremendous more power in my punch and she was really hurt quiet badly for a while.
And when my father came home and found this out he again just went into another one of these rages and I was thrown in--, I had some guests, but I was just thrown into my bedroom.  And then he threw me into the closet.  And I don't know, I just, at that point I can remember just, I stopped thinking about myself and I was just kind of looking in awe at this rage that he'd gotten into.  He was just out of his mind.  (Pause)
And so much of our, it seemed like all of our, us children in relating to my father was based on emotion that had no reason in it.  But perhaps it was just me.  I used to assume that this situation existed in others and I would often try to defend some other member of my family when perhaps it wasn't there at all.  But either he just seemed to be angry and bad tempered, and I know he was tired a lot of the time, but just unreasonably so.  Or else he was extremely gay and happy and fun to be with and there was never any balance, it was always one or the other.  (Silence)
Now I have very mixed feelings about him.  And it again makes me feel very unhappy because I still want him as my father, to be a father and be strong and be sort of superhuman which a child wants in a father.  And on the other hand, I think well, now I'm an adult so I shouldn't need this in my father and I can look at him with some objectivity or just from an outside view because I'm away from home so much.  And then I begin to feel very sorry for him, not that he's unhappy, but just that he's the way he is.  And then that upsets me because I'm feeling sorry for this superhuman person that I'm supposed to be in awe of and admire and live up to, and it's -- (Silence)
And I know, all during the years I was home, I used to be very, very often I'd be very disrespectful to him.  And it wasn't that -- I used to, whenever we'd have any kind of discussion on, oh, lots of topics, I really admired the way his mind would work and that type of thing.  But just somehow in his relating to other people or at least with his family, I just couldn't respect him.  And so I would show it in the way I talked and, and this would be very upsetting to him.  Because I think one thing he wanted more than anything else was sort of a love and respect and admiration from his children, and in a way I just couldn't give it to him.  Even though then I didn't understand how he was relating to people and all, I just, I guess I just basically didn't respect him.  And I couldn't understand why my mother could feel the way she did about him.  Why she would take --  because he could be very cruel with her too.  He would have these flashes again of sort of a rage and, and say really nasty things to her.  And then he'd then he was very contrite I guess, and would apologize and be very sweet to her.  And she knew he was this way and just accepted it.  But I could never understand this and I think I resented the fact she'd, she'd take it and let him be that way with us.  (Pause)
I can just picture her standing there and not saying a word, not fighting back and I think it made me want to fight back all the more, just because she didn't.  And that, of course, just made him more and more angry and then we'd, we were always having huge fights.  It got so, my family just, all of us children -- I guess they used to say anyway -- that we fought more than any other children.  I don't know whether it was really true, but we certainly did have our share of fighting.  But it got so I was so busy fighting with my father that I withdrew from the rest of the family and, I wouldn't even, well I fought sometimes with my older sister.  But it was more, I'd stand there and take it from her.  And, and I just had very little to do with my younger sister and brother, mainly because so many times they were fighting and I just couldn't be around.  Or my older sister would be bossing them around and being again what I thought was mean, and, and instead of trying to take sides I would just withdraw.  But then I'd be so much that way with my father.  It's, I don't understand it.  (Silence)
It's funny too, I went through a period when, right around in high school and then at the beginning of when I went to college, that I just, well, I know I was horrible to my mother.  I just, even if I told myself before I'd go near her that I was going to be nice to her this time, I never could.  And I'd just talk in a horrible tone and say nasty things and generally avoid people unless I had to see them, because whenever I did, I just couldn't be anything but nasty.  No matter how much I told myself I wasn't going to be that way because I really didn't want to be, and then I went from that well, I went away for a year in PEC, because I just felt I had to get away from, I didn't know what I wanted to do anyway, and then besides that, I just felt I wanted to really get away from my family and that made me appreciate them to the point of going exactly the opposite.  And then I could be very nice and I almost felt as if I were really getting dependent on them and wanted to be with them all the time.  And lately I've been loosing that feeling.  And, I don't know, I'd still like to like them.  I guess I still feel a need of having a family and I, if I have them, it, for me to feel I have them I have to feel a liking for them and I'm just afraid this is just going to make me not like them all the more.
ANALYST:   Well, our time's up.
