*TEXT-PV010404  16 October 1970
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (7-minute silence) I've thinking about what—, something that struck me today because it seemed—, I don't know if it's really true I—, that this happened.  But it seemed to me I went through a really extraordinary extreme mood change right before—, well when I knew it was time to get ready to come here, and—.  I didn't sleep well last night and, and just and—, but I wasn't thinking about this during the morning.  And yet I still, when I woke up this morning, or when I finally got up, was feeling fairly energetic and there were certain things I wanted to do.  But in a way, they're all connected with sort of tying up all the little things I have left over from substituting for FYR, because she'd given me a set of papers that I'm finishing correcting and—.  Then there are some other things I want to bring to her, and I had to do some things for that, like some dresses I'd borrowed that I was laundering.  So in a way it was all kind of tied up with a time schedule, and I can always feel more energetic for things like that.
 But then when it became time to come here, I don't know, it was, it was—.  I just suddenly felt completely—, well sort of that depressed feeling that I've had other days this week and having no energy and everything and—.  I was thinking of what I'd do later this afternoon, and would I meet MSCZ in town, so we could do something in town, and thinking well, I just didn't feel like it. And it was really bothering me because it seemed so different from the way I was feeling this morning and—.
Then it sudden—, then I suddenly remembered—, and it was as if—, well it has in a way, escaped me and I'm resisting something about it and this is what I can't figure out.  I remembered that, during the night, when I was having trouble sleeping, I specifically had at least 2 dreams that were very clear, and—.  There was no question about them I think, when I woke up at the time and knew I'd had them, although, I don't know, I'm not sure I related not sleeping with them.  It was more I was just feeling physically uncomfortable.  But I still had 2 specific dreams, and I—.  Whe—, when I remembered them, it seemed like somehow they were tied in with this feeling of—, it's almost anxiety and, and feeling depressed because I'm resisting something as a result of it and I can't remember them.  And after I—, I think it was on a subway here I remem—, I remembered half of the dreams.  I tried to remember them, and it didn't work at all.  So then I thought well maybe if I don't try to remember them, they'll come back.  Because sometimes that's happened when I've gotten here something that I've realized I can't remember will come back to me and—.  Well so far anyway they haven't.  (pause)
And I don't know if it has anything to do with this, too, (sniff) that, uhm, we had our second class last night.  And for the class we—, we learned one of the breathing exercises, but we were mainly learning different body exercises for relaxation and body control and, uhm, I don't know, when I—, by the time I got home, I couldn't relax.  I felt, well, almost over stimulated or something as, I don't know.  I mean it was almost as if I thought I've got to lie down right now and start doing all these exercises and perfect them or—.  Something anyway about the class or what was going on that—, that made me feel tense. (sniff) (pause)
And it—, well this—, I was afraid of this reaction because last night when I was thinking of sort of this over enthusiasm for doing the exercising and all, I knew I'd have a reaction.  And today, uhm, well, I probably should practice them, or at least some of them, without MSCZ but some I have to do with MSCZ.  And so I was just sort of putting everything off, or thinking about, "Well, I'll just do them all with MSCZ" and—.  And then just thinking that it was almost an overwhelming thing to make time for them and to really carry through on them.  And the only way I could possibly do it is if MSCZ's willing, almost to the point where—.  I was almost getting to the point where thinking as long as he makes me then I can do them.  I mean I was—, I think I was thinking of it in that way essentially, although—.  I mean I was putting it in other terms, sort of it was dependent on MSCZ's enthusiasm and willingness, but—.  I mean it was—, in any case it was something where I was just feeling there was no way I could do it alone or with his being sort of lukewarm about it, even though I've known people who have done all these things alone, without their husbands.  (silence)
I was just thinking, too—, well, it was partly because when I was quiet at the beginning of coming here, uhm, I guess I kept thinking, well, maybe if I think about yesterday there'll be some clue there that I'll get about the way I'm feeling now, the w—, the fact I can't remember the dreams or something.  And then I began thinking about what I was talking about at the end of yesterday and worrying about again being like my mother and taking things out on my baby when in a way I don't want to, but in a way I feel as if I will want to and, uhm—.  I don't know, I just—, I just had the feeling that there are times—, yesterday it seemed like a very serious thing to me, but I don't know, on the other hand it's almost secondary to something else, and—.  (pause)
 I'm not sure what the so_ something else is, but I just had the feeling that in the way—, again it was a outlet for feelings and a way to sort of get off the track to an extent, to talk about it and to feel those feelings.
ANALYST:  Well, (clears throat) let me, uh, point out some of the sequences recently of the way your thoughts have gone.  See you started out with a fantasy about me after the vacation, and then maybe backed off.  And then you came back to it, and eventually that came to the point where you had the ideas that you had when you came in here the day when you were afraid or thought I might touch you, and all that that led to, which was on a Friday, if I recall.  And then you went home, and started to get all interested in MSCZ.  And then, yesterday, you were feeling very strongly this particular feeling about FNI that you felt in regard to your mother.  And right now you come back to your mother again, fighting with her, or struggling , or feeling like a little girl.  I think there must be some clue in this way your ideas and thoughts have gone the last few weeks. (pause)
I (clears throat) didn't mention, it seems to me, another piece of events, and that is that the hour after you had the, uh, (deep breath) the whole experience and the idea of my touching you, was the hour you cancelled, though you had ostensibly good reasons for doing so, but it may have also served the purpose of keeping you away from what you had thought of the previous Friday.  (silence)
PATIENT:  Yeah, well, the first thing I immediately thought of when you were p_ pointing out the trend of my thoughts I—, was that by admitting an interest or, uhm, fantasies about you or an interest in MSCZ, I mean just in the opposite sex, then I almost—.  I mean I'm already putting myself in competition with other women and in particular, I mean throughout most of my life, I guess my mother.  And then same thing happened with FNI when she came into my life, and in a way—.  Well, I can't remember, but it seems to me FYR called me earlier in the week and I was even annoyed with her about something she was doing about trying to make me feel a certain way about how things will go when I'm delivering and—.  As if she knows best there, too, and that I'm to believe her when she tells me how my delivery is going to go because she already knows about all this.  I don't know if I mentioned it here, but I know that did annoy me very much.  And it seems like it's a reaction to any woman then.
But then, I don't know, when you point out that I cancelled, and I know I had guilty feelings so it was beyond just cancelling because of a reason beyond my control, so to speak.  Then it makes me, I don't know, sort of think the fighting with women, my mother in particular, comes almost as an outlet for, well, whatever the feelings are that result from a situation that gets dangerous and I have to run away from it as I did from coming here and, uhm—.  I don't know, it almost seems like, the fighting with women, or with my mother in particular, takes on 2 different purposes.  (pause)
 I don't know, the—, the other thing that's sort of part of this that keeps coming to my mind is that somehow there's this feeling that it's safer to fight with my mother or with women, because we're the same sex and—.  I_ I don't know what do with that idea except it seems like any relationship with a woman is safer with a woman than with a man, and so fighting with her or having a close relationship with her or any of those things is safer.  I mean just expressing my feelings with her is easier.  And it's not only then feelings that aren't really connected with her get expressed to her, because I can't express them where they really belong.  (silence)
This keeps coming to my mind but I—, it's, I don't know, I have a feeling it's kind of getting away from things, because it's som—, to do with something I've been reading, uhm, JRB.  And the part where it's talking about the toddler and how the child, I guess it's around 2 years, goes through a period that people call a negative period and will say "no" a lot and try—, and fight what adults want the child to do and I don't know, just generally really establish some sense of personality or something like that and—.  Then the author said something to the effect that it's dangerous to get too fearful that your control as an adult is going because the toddler is fighting in this way, and take it too seriously.  And then I just kept thinking—.  I don't know, she uses (clears throat) a comparison with government and congress, and that kind of thing.  And I just was thinking that's probably just how my mother reacted, of coming in with full force to quell a rebellion on my part.  If I ever said "no," immediately her back would go up and, "I said you were to do it so you are to do it."  And that would be her attitude, which would immediately make me fight all the more.  (silence)
I was just beginning to think of one thing in particular that happened in the class last night that I had very strong feelings about and—.  I don't know, I didn't know if it was just my old bossy self coming out or is something else.  But, uhm, for the relaxation exercises, first she, the instructor, had all the husbands lie down and do it and the wives had to test them by lifting either the arm or the leg and, uhm, she showed us how to do it so you could test if they were really relaxed.  And, uhm, then she had the wives do it, and when MSCZ was testing me—.  I was having trouble with my arms.  I could relax my legs alright, but I couldn't seem to get my arms to be really relaxed.  And I kept blaming it on him and the way he was testing me.  And I don't know, I got—.  And of course he kept feeling that I was just not relaxing and therefore I couldn't admit it and I had to blame it on him.  And it might have been that that really was true, but I don't know, there was something—.  Well, the image that keeps coming to my mind that I think I began to wonder the day when I was thinking about it, if this could have been why.  When he tested me, instead of sort of facing me, and then lifting my arm or lifting my leg, he'd straddle me so that he was facing down at my feet and then lift my arm or my leg.  And he was doing it kind of awkwardly, anyway, which is I thought part of why I was having trouble relaxing.  But I began to have this image of his straddling me and wondering if I was tense for some other reason.
ANALYST:  W_ what do you mean?  What other reason?
PATIENT:  Well, I don't know.  As if maybe I was fighting off awareness of his penis or something, because here he was straddling me and if I looked up that would be the first thing that would come to my mind.
ANALYST:  Yeah, now why do you think this might have occurred to you right now?
PATIENT:  (pause)  Well, the first thing that comes to my mind is that penises are always on my mind in a way.  I mean just the way I'm constantly aware of seeing a word that isn't penis, but might start the same way or something, and I'll see it as such.  Or just, I don't know, lots of little things that make it seem as if it is on my mind.  I'm always trying to not admit that it's on my mind.  (2-minute silence)
And when I wonder why I want to block out the existence of penises, because that seems to be really what I'm trying to do, then I don't know, I think of both things that I've talked about of sometimes feeling I've wanted a penis inside me and I think in a—.  Well, I'm not sure, if it's in a way that 's responding as a woman or not but I think also of how—, I haven't talked about it so much recently but there was a time when it seemed like what I wanted was a penis of my own.  And the best way to have one would be to sort of have a pi—, image of one or something like that.  And yet in either way I— (hesitates) I can't even do that, because somehow I feel there's something wrong about it and—.  I don't know, it just seems like the—, my conclusion is always that it's better just not to be aware of penises and—.  As certainly something that men possess, and men in_ in_, and in_ in particular you or MSCZ.  (4-minute silence)
And I start thinking that in a way what I've just said I've said before, and it doesn't explain feeling that I have right now of—, oh, I don't know, except of almost that there's something I'd might admit and I can't afford to.
ANALYST:  Well, the thing you've conspicuously omitted any reference to is the first part of what I pointed out about the way your thoughts have gone:  what you've been thinking about; what you've been talking about.  Namely me.  (silence)
And after all, it is even more striking since your feeling changed so abruptly when you started to get ready to come and see me today.  Suddenly it seemed like an overwhelming burden.
PATIENT:  (pause)  Well, the thought that was sort of coming to my mind even when I said I didn't know what it was I was afraid to admit—. Well, I kind of rationalized myself out of saying this, as if well, in a way I've said it.  But I really hadn't.  Was that the next step I went into was thinking that having this feeling about penises and, and not wanting to admit them to my consciousness.  I_ I don't know, I was just thinking back to both the fantasy I had about you and then the reaction that day when I reacted as if you were going to touch me, as if both were expressions, different expressions of a desire for you to touch me, and to do it specifically with your penis and putting your penis in me.  (pause)
 I don't know whether this is just a way to sort of run around it.  But then I can—, I can see where admitting that gives me this feeling of how can I admit it?  How can I afford to?  Because then the next thing I start wondering is what does it mean and—.  And I'm not sure what it is I'm afraid of about it, but something.  (2-minute silence)
ANALYST:  Well, our time's up.
