TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Not so much. Teenagers, yes, cognitive-behavioural therapy, no.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I might have a recommendation.
CLIENT: That would be awesome.
THERAPIST: How cognitive-behavioural are you looking for?
CLIENT: I don't know. So this is somewhat through one of her parents.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So she's looking for a therapist, and I believe she's also looking for someone to do cognitive-behavioural therapy, ideally at the same time. But I don't know if it's—like I don't know what she really wants to do.
THERAPIST: Okay. I know someone, who I'm pretty sure is in the Square, has sort of (pause) you know, she's sort of formally trained with cognitive-behavioural therapy. And (pause) you know, also can apply it more flexibly. You know, so like... [00:01:12]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: My next door neighbor, is certainly more cognitive-behavioural than I am, and was trained in some of that stuff. Although I don't think she ever does more formal, structured cognitive-behavioural treatment.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So yeah book with this one first. There's nobody else that I know who does that stuff. (pause) No, I mean I'm mostly kind of in the...
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Okay. I'm just [inaudible [00:01:56]. But yeah. [00:02:01]
THERAPIST: And we're not meeting tomorrow, is that right?
CLIENT: Tomorrow or Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Also, at some point, (pause) I might want to adjust the timing of my appointments again. So (pause) I think I mentioned that I've been having hip pain post-surgery, off and on. Maybe.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: So my chiropractor pointed out that it's almost two years since I had surgery, and maybe therefore it's not going to go away on its own. And I am going to be taking some time off from work to do intensive physical therapy. So (pause) I don't really know how that's going to—I just decided that today, so I don't know like how it'll work with everything else, but... [00:03:02]
THERAPIST: Do you know about how long you'll be out of work?
CLIENT: I'm probably out of work for six weeks.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: And I do want to continue doing therapy during those six weeks. But I might want to change the times.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So I'm still like doing that.
THERAPIST: Sure. Also I am getting off Blue Cross, finally, at the beginning of January. And (pause) there's just one more piece that relates to you and I have to figure out, but most of the pieces are straightforward. I mean, your plan will cover that PPO or POS or whatever.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I, at the moment, am planning still to submit all the claims myself so you wouldn't have to do that. I, sometimes [inaudible [00:04:09] network, they would want you to submit the claims. But I'm going to submit them because it's easy for me to do, and a lot easier for me to be on top of all of them. [00:04:19]
They will, I think though send you the reimbursement. Like the check. And then you would need to—I guess what you need to pay me.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: The piece I'm still figuring out is so—a lot of the reason I'm doing it is because I can balance bills. Because I'm (laughs) I'm way underpaid compared to a lot of my peers. So (pause) I'm still keeping my overall rate low, but I'm getting off of Blue Cross so I can balance bills. [00:05:00]
And I have to (pause) see, you're mostly covered because of the amount Blue Cross will cover, which should be the same, $75 bucks, and the recordings, which will cover $50. And my regular rate is $150. So that would be like $25 on top of that. And I'm thinking I'll just probably start that with the change when I hear back from Blue Cross. But that's the piece that I'm still thinking about.
CLIENT: Okay. So that's January-ish.
THERAPIST: That's January 1, yeah. I mean, I know when I have to tell Blue Cross. I just thought that it's going to be end of the year because some people who I see are going to switch from HMO plans to BPO plans, and if you're at the university at the time, they need that in a year. So it's not relevant for you. So that's the piece I'm still figuring out, but that's how I think I'm going to do it. [00:06:03]
CLIENT: Okay. Okay.
THERAPIST: So but yeah, if you have any questions about that or anything else. Or not happy about it, or...
CLIENT: No. I'm just (pause) so in theory Blue Cross sends me the reimbursement check, and so then I would pay you the reimbursement check or pay you like at the session?
THERAPIST: My plan, at least initially, is not to make people pay me upfront. In other words, so the time will probably be something like this. I tend to—for some reason, I want to submit the claims, because I know I'll get them in fairly soon after the appointment. So I will every week. And at least with me, Blue Cross turns the claims around usually within two to three weeks. [00:07:07]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Occasionally it's a little longer, but usually it's been two to three weeks. And I'm perfectly willing to wait two, three, four weeks to get paid. So like when we meet in January, presumably those checks would start coming—all the January checks would resume, they'd be to you by let's say the end of February.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So I could probably wait till then to get paid. If it turns out that if Blue Cross is paying me directly, it's going to take them two months or something like that, then I'll figure something out.
CLIENT: Yeah. [inaudible [00:07:45] flexible spending. For the co-pay, turnaround is usually like two weeks. Sometimes less.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I may just be able to do that.
THERAPIST: Okay. So yeah, I think it'll probably work something like that. Like I would give you a bill (pause). Actually what will probably happen, because my billing software's getting fancy, is I think the way it will work is you'll be able to have your own account logged in at any time to see where you're at. Yeah. [00:08:25]
CLIENT: Oh, the online thing. Okay. That's probably going to be really helpful.
THERAPIST: Good. And you can pay right there with credit card, although I will probably cap out how people can pay with credit card, because otherwise I have to pay the credit card company. But you can just send me a check from your bank or something. I'd rather pay your credit card than pay that. But I think it will work like that. So I'll send out reminder e-mails once or twice a month like "Hey, check out you balance" or something. And then (pause) would want people to sort of pay probably by the end of the subsequent month for the previous month. So by the end of February [inaudible [00:09:10] for January. Assuming that most or all of the reimbursements would come in from Blue Cross by then. And then you can just come and do it yourself. [00:09:23]
CLIENT: Okay. Sounds good.
THERAPIST: Good. So I think it'll work like that. But yeah, if anything else comes up, let me know. And I should know in the next week or so. I think I'm probably just going to start balancing bills in January. I was waiting, but I probably will just do it then. And (pause) yeah, I mean so you could pay that in the same way as the rest of it. Like I'm not going to be [inaudible [00:09:56] for these sessions.
CLIENT: Okay. Cool. [00:10:00]
THERAPIST: (pause) That was all [inaudible [00:10:07] in my head.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm just kidding. but did you know when you're out from work?
CLIENT: My plan is November 2nd.
THERAPIST: Oh, pretty soon. Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. I did the first physical therapy yesterday, and wow, it hurt, actually. Yeah. Like not in a horrible way, but I just was thinking "There's no way I can do this." It's three hours round trip for me to get there and back. If I had to go back to work, it'd be three hours.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So (pause) it's [inaudible [00:10:52] to do that.
THERAPIST: Right, right. And it's a thing where isn't is also for you to take full-time off, like all your time off, than to take half days or something? [00:11:03]
CLIENT: Yes, as it turns out. Which is also weird. But I'm going with it. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And also it's not like murdering myself to work half-time if it makes any sense. So yes.
THERAPIST: Will it be more painful, or difficult, or...
CLIENT: Basically, it's like working out painful.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So like it'll suck for a little while, but it'll get better and better. (pause) But yeah, just sort of being like that initially sucking it not—and then the next day, getting up, getting on the bus, going to work, all of that.
THERAPIST: So is it essentially stretching and doing -
CLIENT: Strengthening. Yeah. That's the current theory. They're still not quite sure what's wrong, or what's causing it, but they figured out that I definitely have joint pain and stiffness and lower back problems. And maybe other things. [00:12:19]
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it's also sort of, in doing this, I wasn't really thinking about (pause)... I mean it took my doctor saying, "Wow, it's been two years and it hasn't gone away" for me to really think like "Oh yeah, it's been about two years and I'm pretty regularly in a lot of pain, and maybe I should do something about that." (pause) And there is also, she was asking like how much does this affect—like have you changed things in your life? And I was like well, yes. Like I have a hard time doing stairs a lot, like going up them. So I have to use the elevator a lot more. And I just walk over to [inaudible [00:13:13] places less. I'm more likely to take short cab rides. And also taking the Greyhound is horribly painful. I think it's like sitting in an uncomfortable position, not being able to move. [00:13:30]
THERAPIST: Right, for a long time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then also, I realized that sitting in class is also bothering me a lot. (pause) So yeah.
THERAPIST: Well I hope it helps.
CLIENT: I hope so. It was a good appointment. Except for the painful parts, it was good. (laughs) (pause) The other thing is, because I have this really—I just had a really awful weekend emotionally. For reasons that (pause) I don't—I don't know, like I don't totally get. [00:14:09]
So (pause) Friday morning I got up early to go to the (pause) I mean, it kind of started Friday during the day, a friend was coming over for dinner. And I started thinking there was a frost; I'm like oh, it could kill the tomatoes that are out. I took them in. And then I just started getting really fixated that my roommate and I hadn't—so the last couple years we've been canning tomatoes, and we hadn't done any. And so I started worrying about that, and would there be sweet tomatoes available. I just was getting really fixated and worked up and worried about it. Which led to me texting my roommate a little bit and then being like "Jesus Christ, I'm sorry, I'm being insane. Sorry." [00:15:08]
So my friend Ashley offered to drive me to the [inaudible [00:15:14] farmer's market to just get some tomatoes in the car back. And I had to wake up early for it. I ended up not working, which is fine. And then (pause) so I was a little bit like tired and crabby because I just got up early, and etc.
And then I had a pedicure with a friend, which was really nice. It was just hanging out and talking. But then at the end, we started talking about—so she has a cat, an older cat, as well. And her cat's not well, and has dropped a ton of weight. And she's really stressed about that. And I'm like "Yes, I too am stressed about my elderly, skinny cat." So it kind of ended with both of us being stressed about our cats down the road. (pause) [00:16:08]
And (pause) I don't know, like I just couldn't (pause) I mean, it wasn't that it was super depressing, it's just you know, it's kind of sad. And then (pause) I just was really (pause) irritable and not wanting to go to a friend's housewarming party that night. And just really (pause) I don't know, like everything was rubbing me the wrong way. (pause) And I also had another like getting really worried and anxious and like really fixating on whether or not I could (pause) take the bus to go to the movies with a friend and still do something else. Which led to me sending this kind of freaked out e-mail, and then a few hours later being like "I'm really sorry, I think I'm just really stressed. Like ignore the last three e-mails." [00:17:18]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I ended up cancelling with her for Sunday, basically because I said I've been feeling just not great for the last two days, so I think Sunday's not going to be any better. So let's just not do that. (pause) And so Saturday night, I just—after doing the housewarming party and back...
THERAPIST: So what happened in the e-mail exchanges with her? Like what were the three e-mails you wanted her to ignore? [00:18:01]
CLIENT: Oh, so first, I was wondering—we'd agreed on a time, what movie time. We hadn't agreed like will we meet up first, are we going to go to brunch first, are we not, what time are we going to meet. And so at first I was like, I was sort of asking if she wanted to do brunch beforehand or not. And then I was concerned that like timing-wise, for the buses, maybe I couldn't make brunch. And also (pause) I was short on cash at that moment, because I had money in my savings account that hadn't transferred. And so I was like I actually think I can't do brunch; I was affected by this other thing, so maybe we can't do the movie. And then the last one was I think I'm just being really crazy right now. So I wasn't really worried about the timing—I mean I was, but (pause) this sort of back and forth, like nothing was really going to make it better, I guess. [00:19:18]
THERAPIST: You were sort of freaking out?
CLIENT: Yeah, like it wasn't really bus timing, because that can be always worked out. And it wasn't really the money, because again I'm like, I could've borrowed it from her and paid her back the next day or whatever. I was just really, really intensely worried about really minor things. And just really, just yeah, like freaked out. And vaguely angry at myself about it.
THERAPIST: For being so worried, or for like not having enough money, or...?
CLIENT: All of the above. Like (pause) I was upset and mad at myself for wanting to take the bus instead of walking. Or like getting really fixated on bus times. (pause) Because it's not that far a walk and whatever. [00:20:18]
And then I was mad at myself about being worried about money, having not taken out more money from—not having transferred the money earlier. And then I was upset that I was sending all these—barraging her with e-mails. And also I was mad at myself that I was trying to—like we were trying to do something fun, and I was just freaking out all around it. So yeah. A lot of things.
And it was the same kind of like, the same sort of ridiculous way with the tomatoes. Like I was mad at Ashby for not—for having put off buying them earlier in the season. I was mad at myself for not having bought them either. And then just like everything, I was mad at. Yeah. (pause) [00:21:18]
So Saturday night I just—I don't know, I was irritable. I didn't have a very good time at the housewarming party, which I kind of suspected. Like (pause) this friend of mine and her husband are both in the gaming industry, and their parties have a bad habit of just being a lot of guys in the gaming industry talking about gaming. And I don't give a shit. And then (pause) I don't know.
The other thing is like people giving both Ashby and I kind of like (pause) kind of judging us negatively for like wearing a cute little outfit, like getting dressed and not just wearing jeans and a t-shirt. Which is also annoying. And then there was like some weird intellectual [inaudible [00:22:23] which is always maddening. [00:22:25]
THERAPIST: I like that phrase.
CLIENT: Intellectual [inaudible [00:22:29]?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. So yeah. And also it like—I never like going to parties full of people I don't know. And like (pause) neither of the hosts are people who will kind of think "Oh, maybe I should introduce this person to this person," or try to steer the conversation away from shop talk. So it was a little bit [inaudible [00:23:01] yourself in a kind of frustrating way. Yeah. (pause) [00:23:07]
So I was in a bad mood when I got home, and just continued to be both in a bad mood and freaked out and mad at myself for being in a bad mood. And (pause) that was—and so Sunday was that plus I was feeling really (pause) I don't know. Like apathetic and sad. (pause) So what I vaguely planned to do was just, was do some laundry, put away some laundry. (pause) Clean some dishes. That was kind of about it. (pause) [00:24:05]
And I just really didn't want to. I didn't really want to get out of bed. When I got out of bed, I just didn't want to do anything. And then I was feeling really (pause) I was feeling really anxious and upset about not having put away laundry or not having done it and (pause) I don't know. I was just really (pause) like mad at myself but also mad that I was feeling depressed and therefore was having a hard time doing these things.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And that was basically the day.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) I sort of got two impressions. One is I think you felt sort of more out of control of how you felt and what you were doing than you generally feel? [00:25:14]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And two (pause) I guess I'm imagining that the (pause) the anger or the irritability is one of the main things, or the worry, seems maybe to be a worry about getting really angry or really taking it out on yourself or not being in control and being mad about that. You know, like you're worried about getting really frustrated or mad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, my other worry is because I'm going vacation tomorrow. And I started worrying am I going to end up—am I going to spend my whole vacation being really upset and angry and frustrated, and what if that happens. And so I also was, I was having like [inaudible [00:26:19] like "oh, should I e-mail my friends and be like 'I might be really crazy this weekend.' But why should I even do that?" Just sort of—I didn't. [00:26:28]
THERAPIST: Just sort of stewing over it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Remind me what you're doing?
CLIENT: It is a very small sci-fi convention. [inaudible [00:26:41] people. I think 120 people, about. And (pause) a bunch of friends of mine run it, and I help running—I did help run it this year, but I'm not going to do it next year. So (pause) part of why I was helping was there was a transition of leadership, and (pause) they needed some people who had been around, and I was one of them. [00:27:13]
THERAPIST: It's a good thing that (pause) what strikes me about, not about that, but about the weekend, is (pause) you had sort of these strong reactions to (pause) being disappointed or having things not be enough about you. I mean, even if sort of unreasonably so, as you later decided, in terms of bus schedules. (pause) [00:28:03]
Like it wasn't fitting well enough, it wasn't working well enough. It wasn't being taken care of, maybe somebody else should've been taking care of it better or should've figured it out better or should've been there more for you, or was being annoying because they were off doing their own thing. You don't often talk about getting irritated by things like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean
THERAPIST: I'm not even sure what to make of it, but that seems a bit different.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's one of those (pause) I think that's part of what made things feel different, is that a lot of things that normally I'm like "Oh, that was kind of annoying. Meh" were just really stuck in. (pause) And I just, I don't know, I couldn't (pause) I couldn't be irritated and stop or just be like "well, whatever, that happened." (pause) I don't know. [00:29:34]
The other thing was I was feeling like I had a hard time (pause) I guess (pause) dealing something like—being irritated with someone doesn't usually keep me from doing other stuff, right? Like even if someone's really bugging me, I'm like "whatever." I still do my laundry or cook or whatever. But I was just feeling so (pause) I guess overwhelmed by it all that (pause) it was really hard to concentrate well enough to do something else or even really think about it. [00:30:21]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, one thing is also something that I feel guilty about, which is so (pause) so now that Ashby's taking Adderall and actually sleeping more—she used to only sleep a couple hours a night.
THERAPIST: Oh wow.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh, I didn't know that.
CLIENT: For a long time she only slept a couple hours a night.
THERAPIST: Like literally, two hours.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like two to four hours.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And what she would do is basically lie in bed and obsessively think about things. Like everything that was going wrong in her life, etc. [00:31:05]
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So yeah, and a lot of (pause) she's gone through a lot of sucky medication and none of them have worked. And what she's currently taking is an anti-convulsant. Yeah. Which is kind of terrifying. (pause) But her psychiatrist like—just gave her, was like "this is the fifteenth of the medications I tried that didn't work. This is why, blah blah blah." So once she started sleeping and taking Adderall, she suddenly was like "I really want to clean a lot." And I was like "okay, um." And we sort of talk about how it's not really exactly what I bartered. [00:32:00]
Like when we first started rooming together, that wasn't a huge thing. And now it was. And she really likes all flat surfaces to be free of items. And like that suddenly manifested in ways that I'm just like "what the fuck just happened." So (pause) and we sort of like have come to an agreement where she's like "sometimes I'm just crazy and just want to clean everything, and I'm not mad at you for not cleaning, I'm just doing it."
So the way this typically works is like she hates washing dishes by hand, so I usually hand wash any pots and pans and do that. And usually like every other week or so, on the weekend, like on a Sunday, she'll clean the kitchen, like scrub the counters and stove and do other things. Or she'll suddenly be like "Now I have to clean the bathroom" or something. Mostly it's been like she'll clean the kitchen a couple times a month. [00:33:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And (pause) so this year I decided in the summer—because she didn't want to do anything with the garden this year. And I was like "that's fine." But she also hasn't been cleaning anything. Like she hasn't been cleaning the kitchen at all. (pause) Which (pause) I feel bad saying "why did you stop cleaning the kitchen?" Because it's not like (pause) I don't know. Like she wants to clean it more than I do, usually, and that's totally fine. Except with me doing my regular amount of cleaning and her doing none—because she doesn't do the pots and pans, which is fine, but she also has stopped loading and unloading the dishwasher mostly. (pause) So there's a lot of like pots and pans and then dishes piled up. [00:34:24]
THERAPIST: I mean, some of it with her and cleaning the kitchen is it was kind of nice.
CLIENT: Yeah. I like other people cleaning the kitchen. Like I don't do it that much, and -
THERAPIST: Yeah. A bunch of these things are like that, actually. I mean it's not as though she's way in your cleaning debt, if I understand.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But it's more like it's pretty nice and now it kind of sucks. Which I think a lot of things are [inaudible [00:35:03] like your tomatoes, the housewarming party. [00:35:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: The scheduling. You know, none of it is (pause) stuff you want, you know, or living nicer or better or happier. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, well I mean the other thing is that Ashby tends to be super over dramatic, and one of her over dramatic things is to announce like "This apartment is just completely filthy," and just sort of go on and on. And that makes me stressed. I don't like it. And inevitably I'll be like "What do you mean by filth?" And she's like "Just everything." And then she'll be like "Well, there's a pile of magazines over here." So (pause) with her not doing any cleaning, I'm like "Yeah, the kitchen actually is filthy." But I don't have the energy to do that all. And I feel uncomfortable I guess saying "It was really nice when you were cleaning the kitchen all the time, could you do that again please." [00:36:23]
Yeah. It's kind of like (pause) I feel like she's sort of in the social contract of roommate-ness, she's kind of dropped the ball on it. Like (pause) I don't know. Like she's started leaving dishes out more and sometimes there's just sort of a pile of apple cores, and I'm like "That's kind of gross, they're getting flies." And she's not saying anything about it. [00:37:09]
So (pause) I don't know. Like I feel like our apartment is less nice in ways, but her complaining about it has sort of stayed the same. And now it includes like her complaining about how everything is disgusting while not budging from the sofa for three hours. (pause) And so I'm also a little bit like "Why are you suddenly not doing things?" Like both I'm curious about why, but also like [inaudible [00:38:04]. [00:38:05]
But I suspect either question will probably result in her blowing up about something. Like (pause) that I'm horribly messy, or that she hates the apartment is disgusting, or it's because I wasn't nice enough about her birthday. I'm just kind of like ugh, like I don't know where it's going to come from. (pause) [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: I don't know. I just think [inaudible [00:39:25] worried by being annoyed about things that aren't making you happy, or people that aren't making you happy in ways you want them to. (pause) I'm not sure what the bigger picture is there, but what occurs to me is actually I'm feeling like sort of (pause) [inaudible [00:39:56] I remember from last week that inaudible [00:40:03] one of the things that you were talking about? [00:40:08]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean one of the things that I'm sort of moving towards trying to do is actually not go home for Thanksgiving. And (pause) because the more I think about it, the more I just really don't want to. Like it makes me really upset to think about. Like I just don't—my brother texted me when he and Ashby were coming back with their tickets. And my first thought was like "Okay, can I manage to be home for precisely the times that they're there, to kind of like have more bodies on hand?" (pause) [00:41:00]
And Ashby and I had this back and forth of "Why don't we just not go, like why don't you just not go home for Thanksgiving." And my reasons why it's really difficult to do that. And then we just—he doesn't want to go anymore and we sort of back and forthed on it a little bit.
But I don't know, this year I just really, really don't want to. And I've been thinking about ways to (pause) do that without—hopefully minimizing like (pause) how upset she's going to be, or angry, and also her—like because I kind of pretty much expect that her first response will be "We can drive you down and pick you up." And I don't want to do that. [00:42:01]
(pause) And saying like "you drive me crazy on Thanksgiving" is not going to go anywhere, clearly. So I'm kind of going for "Oh, I have schoolwork I have to deal with people here. You want me to do my schoolwork." (pause) And just let it go from there. (pause) One of my friends suggested I should say I'm sick, like I had the plague, I'm sick. Oh no. She'll just come and pick me up. With the plague. Like that's not going to go anywhere. (laughs) I think I would need a doctor's note for that to work, and even then.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So that's also stressing me out, like thinking about it. How I'm going to get out of it. [00:43:00]
THERAPIST: I think you're more inclined to do what you want, or not do what you don't want.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah, I did mention to my brother (pause) I told him I was thinking of not coming down for Thanksgiving, and then when he asked why, I mean I pretty much said "I don't want to deal with our mom being crazy all weekend." (pause) Which I usually don't do, or not that explicit about. (pause) But he didn't really respond to that part. He did say that I should go home for Christmas, at least. Which I'm going to, but... [00:44:10]
But I was, I mean, I was visiting him and Ashby in Chicago. He showed me like (pause) I mean Ashby talked more than he did, but he was, you know, agreeing with me that our mom can become more controlling and more difficult. And Ashby brought up that she's also more critical and fixated on me than on him. (pause) Which is kind of generally true, basically, I think. Like she's definitely got much more of her focus on me. [00:45:00]
It also made me wonder like what is it that my mom's criticizing me about to Seth and Ashby? Like what -
THERAPIST: Right, right.
CLIENT: And I'm not sure. And I didn't want to ask because I figured it would probably make me much more upset. (laughs) Like it just wasn't going to go anywhere.
THERAPIST: Right. [inaudible [00:45:32]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Have a good weekend.
CLIENT: Thank you. I'll see you on Tuesday. Goodnight.
THERAPIST: Okay. Alright, I'll see you on Tuesday.
END TRANSCRIPT
