TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay. 
CLIENT: Thanks for calling me back last night. 
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I'm doing a lot better this morning. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. Good. 
CLIENT: New day. Also (laugh) James and I talked a little bit after you called, and you know I kind of said, "This is what's going on," and talked a while. And he called back a couple hours later and was like, "You know, I spent the past hour looking for jobs for you online. And that's really depressing." (laughing) 
Yes, yes it is. So those are both good things. I feel like he understands why I have a hard time doing it better, and he found like a dozen jobs that I want to apply to.
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: So, yeah. I have a place to go today that's like, "I'll start here. "
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Good.
CLIENT: Yeah [0:00:59.9] (pause) Yeah just keeping going forward. (pause) 
My roommates are good. (pause) They are boys. I don't like to use the word girls for women over like 18. I think "ick" [ph? [00:01:35].3]. 
I realized—I might have said this already at some point—but I realized right when I was moving to the city, I went out for drinks with a friend I was spending a couple of days with her because my apartment wasn't ready and one of her friends who was around 40. And they kind of, during the course of the conversation, repeatedly referred to themselves as girls. And I was just like, "That's so sad." This friend who was single and clearly like at the point where she was starting to age and starting to really try to look like she wasn't aging. I was like, "I don't like that in our culture." I don't want that to be there. So you know I don't try to do that. It's easy to say 'guys', and that covers a wide spectrum of ages. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
[0:02:29.9]
CLIENT: So I have to, I'm trying to not call these guys 'boys', because they're grown ups. But at the same time, they kind of aren't. But I don't know. There's just no line. (laughing) You know, there's never a line. 
Like you called last night, or I called you and you called me back, and you said, "Well you haven't been this bad for a while," which is pretty much true. I haven't called you for a while, but there's no line. It's so incremental that (pause) it's like I don't know quite when to flag things, like when I'm feeling bad, like when it—this is bad enough that I need to be talking to somebody. 
[0:03:26.3]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: So I try to get a sense of it, but (pause) I don't know. I don't know. I also, like I don't tend to talk about constants. But then I don't notice when constants change always because they change slowly. I think I'm skipping around too much. 
Really so if I were to say—if I were to like call you every time I thought about killing myself, I would be calling you every day. (pause) And I kind of assume that we're both on the same page there (laughing) that you know that. By the way talking to Dr. Vaughn [ph? [00:04:14].5] yesterday, I realized, "Oh. Dr. Vaughn doesn't know that." I should probably send her an e-mail about that. (pause)
[0:04:25.7]
So like I feel like somehow I've given her the impression that I'm doing—that I've been doing significantly better than I have been.
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: (sigh) You know, I don't know. And also there's the—I kind of—I feel pretty confident that I'm not going to attempt suicide anymore. I feel very confident about that, So, it's like well (pause) but then if the main reason to flag it to somebody is a safety concern. Well, a safety concern isn't' the same thing. Like, it's not the same safety concern as it was a year ago. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. That's good. 
[0:05:12.0]
CLIENT: Yeah. Actually, yes that is good. (chuckling) It's also bad because I've (pause) you know it's good that I made that choice, but it's bad that I still am often under—in the conditions that cause me to have to make that choice. 
THERAPIST: Oh, absolutely. Of course. 
CLIENT: But, it's good. Yes. (chuckling) Let's stick with that too. (pause) I have an interview with a temp agency tomorrow. So I'll be wearing a suit (sigh). 
I feel like a parody of—I don't know—women's suits are different than men's suits. Men's suits are like, everybody just wears a suit. Women's suits are like it's a markedly—I would argue that it's a level of formality beyond what you can actually achieve in a men's suit. 
Sometimes, I mean, I don't really know. It's just I'm not applying for the kind of jobs where I will probably have to wear a suit every day.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
[0:06:37.7]
CLIENT: But I still, you know—it's still like you wear a suit to get interviewed to show you know the kind of thing you're supposed to do. It's quite ridiculous. Like I've had a hard time getting used (pause) I've had a hard time (chuckles) reconciling myself to the idea that like I have to use employment jargon in my cover letters. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: I can't say the same thing in a more creative way because they won't recognize that it's a—they have to know that I know how the game works.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Which is—which I don't like. But (pause) you know, it's the same thing in academia. So (pause) when I think of it that way, I'm like, "Well, it's just technical." And I know they probably going to be like (pause) 
[0:07:49.4]
I'm really over thinking this aren't I? (laughing) But I mean maybe I'm not because I don't have a job so (laughing). It's a possible job thing.
THERAPIST: [inaudible [00:08:04].4] job thing. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (pause) You know, why can't I just write, "I am a self-starter," in my CV? I'm like, "Because it doesn't mean anything." (laughing) Because it's a stupid word. Regardless of the fact that, yes, when I'm at work and there's nothing to do I do look for things to do. Like, that's part of what I do when I'm at work. So (pause) you know, I'm trying not to shoot myself in the foot. (pause)
[0:08:49.2]
The cat thing has settled down. The cat is here. 
THERAPIST: You did get a cat.
CLIENT: We did get—they got a cat. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: The name is Isis. 
THERAPIST: Isis the cat. 
CLIENT: Isis the cat. It's a kitten. It's kind of cute. (pause) Cats are super easy as it turns out. That's good. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
(pause)
CLIENT: Oh my goodness. It's just like, like last night, Eric [ph? [00:09:32].3] was like, "I don't know how to make bacon." I was like, "What?" (laughing). I was like, "Well, you know, you do this," and I explained it. And he made bacon. It was great. It's was like a [inaudible [00:09:44].3] night. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: He's like, "Ah! This is great! I'll eat like 10 pieces of bacon every morning, and I'll get huge!"
THERAPIST: (laughing)
[0:09:51.9]
CLIENT: And it's like, "No." (laughing) I don't even know what to do with him. (pause) Yeah he's really—they're both really sweet in their different ways. They're both also really annoying in their different ways. (pause) But they're pretty patient with me. There's—I have things that they need to be patient about also, a lot of things. (pause) So it works out. (pause)
[0:10:32.1]
I talked with James last night.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: After you called, before he had looked for jobs. 
THERAPIST: Yes. 
CLIENT: I said," Should we (pause) should we be expanding the range of things we're considering as possibilities? Do we need to talk again about me moving there or you moving here or what that would look like?" And he didn't want to be the primary person that I ask for advice on this, which I think is pretty reasonable. (laughing) He was like, "Well you should have asked me this question last week when I wanted to quit my PhD program...
THERAPIST: (laughing)
CLIENT: ...as opposed to this week when I've decided that, "No, I really just fucking want to get it done with." I was like, "No, no. See, I shouldn't have asked the question last week because then we would have made a decision that you would have ultimately regretted." But (pause) So, you know. I don't think him moving here without finishing the PhD program is a good idea. (pause)
[0:12:02.1]
From any standpoint other than he could take care of me.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: Which is—now that I'm saying it—that's not something to ignore. (pause) But I don't—it's hard to argue with the picture of James moving here without job prospects, without any work experience, without a degree, without a place to live. Although, you know, he could live with us. He could live in this apartment for at least a while. But it's hard to argue with that. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: And for me moving there, we didn't really discuss that further. Now that I think about it, it implies that that was something he wanted me to talk with somebody else about. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: I don't know it's necessarily you, but you are probably somebody [inaudible [00:13:03].5]. (pause) I talked with Dr. Vaughn yesterday. She said, "You don't really have anything stable in your life right now." I said, "No, not really." So meeting with you is pretty much the only stable thing I have going for me. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
[0:13:21.7]
CLIENT: That's pretty important. 
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: So I don't (pause) Yeah, it's pretty important. I don't want to lose that. (pause) But (pause) I also (pause) I'm already making choices I don't want to make. I started making choices I didn't want to make a year to two ago. So. Yeah. (pause)
[0:14:18.0]
CLIENT: James said he didn't really—he didn't really know what to tell me. He was frustrated at one point in the conversation kind of toward the middle, which is a good point to be frustrated if you're going to. I don't know. 
"The thing to do is get better. Just get better and then get a job. Like, that's the thing to do." (laughing) Yes, I know. That is the thing to do (laughing) but the—you know (pause) I'm unemployed because I'm too depressed to do the job that I'm qualified for. And the treatment for the depression as well as the depression itself—so you know a cluster of things surrounding the depression is keeping me from—it's just making it more difficult for me to get a job as well as the fact that I'm not really qualified for that much else. (pause)
[0:15:21.9]
THERAPIST: Do the treatments make it more difficult to get a job in that...
CLIENT: In the scheduling.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. 
CLIENT: In that I need to work—I have to work someplace nearby or someplace with flexible hours. So I can make appointments. (pause) Or you know, shift work, which I'm actually pretty okay with. Or two part time jobs, which I'm also pretty okay with if it's not too hectic and things like that. (pause)
THERAPIST: I get the sort of (pause) the culminating thing I've been thinking for a bit about, unless I'm misremembering, I don't think you've asked me even about changing to appointments about the beginning or the end of the day. 
CLIENT: We did. 
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. 
CLIENT: You just said that you didn't have availability right now but would keep looking. 
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: That you would keep your eye out. I mean—I don't know what. I mean, please keep your eye out. 
[0:16:46.6]
THERAPIST: Of course I will. I just got busy with [inaudible [00:16:50].7] proposal and...
CLIENT: That was like four or five days ago. (laughing) It was like a week ago. I might have brought it up in an indirect way. I probably did. (laughing) Yeah, that's fine 
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) I knew we talked a little bit about it when it still looked like you might be working at inaudible] [0:17:16.8]. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: But I clearly completely spaced out of it. 
CLIENT: That's okay. (pause) Yeah. (pause) It makes things more difficult. I wasn't expecting it, but I was—it was in my mind as a possibility, and I don't know how much more difficult it will ultimately make things.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Zero plus zero is still zero. (pause)
[0:17:54.4]
THERAPIST: Alright I missed the last reference. Zero means? 
CLIENT: Oh, zero offers plus offers is still zero offers (laughing). (pause) Professor Freeman [ph? [00:18:13].6] did say he would be happy for me to keep working for him. So he seems pleased with what I've done. But I was (pause/sigh) it's just feeling like I was constantly letting somebody down. (pause) You know it was less that my work wasn't good enough. I didn't have to deal with that. So that was better than actually being in school because you know (pause) there were no expectations that I was actually—had a background in this...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it was not that difficult work, and so it was fine. But (pause) I just beat myself up about not being able to get it together to work 10 hours a week. That's (pause) Why is that hard? (pause) 
I just don't—I just really, really struggle to impose external structure or something on myself. (pause) I probably averaged like six hours a week. Or I would just not work for a week, and then work for 15 hours the next week or something like that. (sigh) It never seemed to bother him. Like most academics, he's probably also behind. (laughing) 
[0:20:09.8]
But I don't—I don't want to be banking on that. (pause)
[0:20:27.9]
I have a lot of people who are really happy to be references for me. (pause)
THERAPIST: I imagine you feel (pause) really frustrated and helpless.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm (pause)
THERAPIST: And also that (pause) you're kind of tentative about expressing that intensity of those feelings in here, like sort of careful to be evenhanded and be careful. 
CLIENT: It's not just in here though.
THERAPIST: I know. 
CLIENT: But yes, certainly in here.
THERAPIST: Yes.
[0:22:27.4]
CLIENT: Part of it is that I don't want to leave today and have the rest of the day be shot. I have to get work done today. I have to. 
And actually this is something I was just kind of putting together. In that I think part of the reason that working for Professor Freeman [0:22:45.4] was hard was that (pause) therapy is really hard. I leave a lot of days and it takes me like four or five hours before I can get back to work on anything that requires real focus. You know like data entry, sure. Answering calls, sure. Something distracting me, that would be fine. But, you know, (pause) putting together research (pause) like I (pause) I lose a lot of days. (pause) And I spend a lot of time outside of therapy thinking about this and (pause)... 
[0:23:41.2]
So it's really been clear to me that this is the most important thing. But I also (pause) now like I have to—I have to get work done today. I don't know what to do (pause).
THERAPIST: So (pause) I gather part of what you're saying is that if you (pause) at times when you are –if you were to be less tentative and more expressive of your frustration and helplessness, let's say around job stuff, that you would kind of come apart from that in a way that it would take four or five hours, likely as not, to recover from.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's exactly the phrasing I was thinking of. I feel like we spend 45 minutes taking me apart, and then I spend the rest of the day kind of putting myself back together (pause), which is fine. (pause)
THERAPIST: How about mixed? [ph? [00:25:01].8]
CLIENT: (chuckles) That is probably better. That's more accurate. (pause)
[0:25:20.7]
I mean one practical solution to that that I think of is—I don't know if you have any openings on Wednesdays and Thursdays in the afternoon.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But...
THERAPIST: Right. That would help. 
CLIENT: It could. 
THERAPIST: Yes. 
CLIENT: Of course then I would just sleep late and not get anything done in the mornings. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I can see that something like that (pause) a late in the day appointment—I mean late enough—would clearly help with, or would make you more flexible, in terms of work possibilities. 
[0:26:06.0]
CLIENT: Oh no, I was just thinking of in terms of like applying for jobs. 
THERAPIST: Right. I was going to say it would partly help with that in that you would have a big chunk of the day before we met, and it's, in a sense, more pragmatic to be putting yourself back together in the evening than in the morning. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Although I don't think that the research steps are really going to be good for me. I think I'm still just going to feel bad all the time. I don't know. It sounds so ridiculous to say that. (pause) I feel like I need some external judgment on it. But I don't want to ask you for that. I'm not sure. 
THERAPIST: You're not sure what?
CLIENT: I'm not sure why. 
[0:27:06.7]
THERAPIST: Why you don't want to ask me? 
CLIENT: Yeah. Probably because I think like you wouldn't give one. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Right. I am sort of imagining it's because you're anticipating I wouldn't give you an answer, and then (pause) that would be—that would feel bad in some way. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: As though you would have reached out to me by asking, and then I don't know if you feel hurt or angry or what, but something. 
CLIENT: More helpless. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
(very long pause)
[0:29:20.0]
THERAPIST: So do you (pause) This is like your—then you're that—I'm aware that this happened lots of places or other places, you're fairly conscious of being tentative or restrained or careful about how much of how you feel you express or how intensely?
CLIENT: Yes. More so here.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: More so today than typically. You know, I'm much more conscious of it when I have an agenda for the rest of the day. (pause)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
(pause)
[0:30:55.6]
CLIENT: I feel like there's a general—in my general life it's (pause) I'm trying very hard not to talk about how intensely I'm feeling. And then in situations where, like I feel like I have something to [inaudible [00:31:26].3] like here, like with friends, I feel like I'm trying very hard to talk about it. And not succeeding terribly well in either situation. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: Although much better in the former. (chuckles)
[0:31:40.9]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which is kind of—which is a reversal when I was little—from when I was younger. It took me a long time to get to the point where I just didn't cry all the time whenever I felt like crying. I used to just cry, like all the time. 
THERAPIST: Hmm. 
CLIENT: It is not fun. (laughing) (pause) You know as a kid, you hit an age, and I don't know exactly where that age is, where like children learn not to cry when they feel like crying. And I feel like I was like six years behind that, maybe 10. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
(pause) 
[0:33:05.6]
THERAPIST: I feel like I, (pause) in a sort of ongoing way, can have the wrong idea in my head. Where (pause) I think about how you're displaying your tentativeness around what you feel, particularly things like anger or frustration, helplessness, as related to some worry or some need to take care of me in some fashion. 
And that may be there, but I think I consistently make the mistake of overestimating the role of that relative to (pause) thinking about (pause) how much being here and your relationship with you makes it easier for you to talk about and look at things that you feel. And how much more that can actually feel okay here instead of elsewhere. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. 
[0:34:39.0]
THERAPIST: Especially here. I know that you always—I can see you, and you've been pretty comfortable talking about and thinking about lots of kinds of feelings things like (pause) being angry, feeling less reasonable or reasons about how you're feeling sort of taking up emotional space or... (pause) You're feeling relatively easier about that, I think, here. 
[0:35:22.1]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's become certainly much easier for me to talk about it here and to think about it here. And I've been trying to think about it and talk about [inaudible [00:35:34].5] my life. Yeah and like while I do certainly have a very strong impulse to take care of you and kind of try to... 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...because you're my therapist, that impulse is different than with other people. (pause) Yeah, the point is for me not to (chuckle) take care of you and the rest of—for stringing my emotions around you. That would defeat the purpose. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: So, yeah. I think you're right. 
[0:36:12.7]
THERAPIST: I mean it makes me think of things where like you say, "Geez, you're always looking for like negative things or critical things I'm feeling about you." Like, you say this to me. 
And I guess what I'm feeling is sort of along those lines that, "Yeah, there are ways in which I kind of misunderstand (pause) that I'm often more so that this is a place you can sort of hold on to and feel more grounded in a way that lets you put some of these things out there. That then when you leave it's harder to repackage. 
[0:37:00.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. And like (pause) the tension for me is that kind of repackaging. I don't (pause). It's not something that I think I ought to be doing to the extent that I do it, or try to do it? I think again that defeats the purpose. It's more that I have to function, and I don't know how to function otherwise. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: So it's kind of a byproduct of saying, "Well, now it's time to go work for Professor Freeman. Well, I'm in the Square, so I can't cry because people will look at me." Although, they probably really wouldn't. I mean, it's the Square. But you know what I mean. 
THERAPIST: Yeah
[0:37:52.7]
(pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. And so I feel like this kind of—it feels like there's a corollary where my time in therapy becomes increasingly grounding, but then like my like regulation of my emotions becomes increasingly chaotic kind of in time with that. 
And that I am kind of bouncing back and forth between very uncontrolled intense emotions, and maybe intense emotions that I have very tightly controlled and just days where I'm just watching TV and not really thinking about anything. That happens also. 
[0:38:42.4]
(pause)
[0:39:32.0]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I don't talk very much about how this is very, very important to me, but it is. (pause) I don't know, I also feel like if you go away [inaudible [00:39:49].3] which is actually true in the sense of I don't (pause) the rest of my life is still unstable. I don't really have a reason to live in the city other than this at this point. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean if you moved (pause) Is that something you want to talk about? You sort of come up to it and then...
[0:40:28.3]
CLIENT: I don't know. I really don't want to move. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: I don't know how to talk about it. (pause) Yeah. (pause) I really don't want to move. I don't know anybody other than work. James doesn't know anybody really. I mean he knows people in the department but he doesn't like have people. And (pause) I don't (pause/sigh) 
You know there is the fact that I really like you, like you specifically. But even leaving that aside, it's really hard to find a good therapist in Ohio—in central Ohio. I know there are very good people in Cleveland, but Cleveland is a long drive. And coverage would be hard and really just like anything else, it takes a long time. It takes a long time. 
And I don't (pause) I just feel like that's very risky. (pause) You know, with where James and I are and with where I am—where I am personally. And I say I made the decision that I'm not going to kill myself, but I don't want to put too much pressure on that decision.
[0:42:22.3]
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: (quietly crying)
THERAPIST: This is your life we're talking about. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. At my apartment, you can go out on the roof, at my new apartment, which is beautiful. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And the first thing I thought was, "Would I die if I jumped off that roof?"
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I mean, probably not. It's only three stories up. So, that's good. I guess. (sharp exhale/sigh)
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
[0:43:09.0]
CLIENT: It doesn't mean I don't enjoy sitting on the roof. 
THERAPIST: Well that's good. 
CLIENT: You can see downtown. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, yeah. I don't want to move (sniffling). So I'm going to apply for jobs. (pause)
[0:43:55.9]
CLIENT: You keep learning that you don't get the choices you want. You get the choices that you get. And then you just have to keep learning it over and over again. (pause/crying) Oh well. Keep learning. (crying quietly/pause) You know, keep looking for more choices. There are always more choices. (pause)
[0:45:41.6]
THERAPIST: I guess that would be the helplessness about choices that you get, not necessarily the choices that you want?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, when I frame it in those terms it feels less helpless. (pause) Because I still have choices. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I have to say stop. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Did you say we should schedule a time for Friday. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think I'm going to be able to 4:30. Is that good?
CLIENT: I could do that. 
THERAPIST: I can confirm that by the end of the day today, I should know. 
CLIENT: Okay. I'm going to write it down.
THERAPIST: I could start that next week. 
CLIENT: Next week? Okay. 
THERAPIST: If you get a chance, once you get your new Blue Cross number, I tied the mainframe [ph? [00:46:31].7] to that number. 
CLIENT: Oh, I have the same number. I got a new card. I have the card here. 
THERAPIST: Okay. Is the prefix just different?
CLIENT: The prefix is different, yeah. It's XXP. 
THERAPIST: Great. 
CLIENT: No, I'll send you an e-mail at some point. 
THERAPIST: You don't have to. I can remember that. 
CLIENT: Okay. Thank you. 
END TRANSCRIPT
