TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session six.
PATIENT: Session six. I had a crazy day yesterday. I feel I shouldn't make so much but still. I think because it was easy I exerted myself harder.
COUNSELOR: So you're anxious too much?
PATIENT: Yeah. Hit a puddle today. Right in the company trucks. I got really wacky and was speeding a little.
COUNSELOR: But you didn't (inaudible at 0:52) their trucks.
PATIENT: Well beating on them means like passing the clutch in first gear and then squeaking the tires and ... just kind of wrecking the drive train. Not really beating them. When I went to get - when I went for coffee this morning I took a company truck. And just as I was pulling out from - I backed around turning around after I got the coffee. And I kind of spun the tires a little bit and some stuff fell off the back of the truck and I had to go back and pick it up. (laughs) So I won't do that too much anymore. Plus the front of the (inaudible at 1:41) because I hit them. We (redo transmissions like) (ph).
COUNSELOR: So they're fun to drive? 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (But kind of I'd say fun to drive) (ph).
PATIENT: And we're finally had enough guys in the crew today. Usually they send a two man crew out to do a three or four man job and that doesn't work out too well. Today we had a five man crew to do a three man's job. (inaudible at 2:11) We got one done - done so fast that we went to two others. And now I got to quit for arraignments. (And they tell me where to be and when I'm done) (ph). And no that's just an arraignment. That's not charge. I was going to say they're going to tell me what a dipshit I am but they won't term it that. They just tell me what I'm charged with.
COUNSELOR: But you can't challenge them. I mean you're saying it really ... you're worried about it or you're aspired (ph) [3:13]
PATIENT: I'm kind of confused a little bit. Because I mean I'm not really too sure. Like they charged me with bank graphing (ph) because I never said I wanted to rob the bank. And the little girl I had never said I wanted to rob the bank. They kind of implied it.
COUNSELOR: So you're not really sure what's going to happen to you? What you're going to be charged with.
PATIENT: Yeah. And then on top of that I didn't name any specific amount. So they could just charge me with illegal possession of a weapon. And you get away with that. Or they could charge me with disturbing the peace ... which is kind of unlikely. They could charge me with bank grabbing (ph) but then it would be very hard for them to prove. Because I didn't really rob (ph) it, I just attended it. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And there really is no attempted bank robbery. Either you do it or you don't do it. 
COUNSELOR: So what is the assumption that they are not going to charge you with much?
PATIENT: I really don't know. They just have to relay it tomorrow morning before we go to court. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 4:37)
PATIENT: With my father. (inaudible at 4:38)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 4:40)
PATIENT: We've been getting along.
COUNSELOR: Not looking forward to (inaudible at 4:44)
PATIENT: See any time I'm around him something happens. Not something happens but just something he says kind of bugs me. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 4:55) Because you just know that tomorrow's (inaudible at 4:58)
PATIENT: That doesn't even have to be to me. It's just saying something. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 5:05)
PATIENT: So I don't know. It seems like there in his mind there's only one way to (say things) (ph) to me. And there's no deviation from his plan. I guess I'm like that sometimes. And that's why it bugs me so much to see it.
COUNSELOR: It bugs you because it reminds you of yourself?
PATIENT: At the time it doesn't. It's probably the reason he does it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah but at the time.
PATIENT: No, at the time it seems like it's all in him.
COUNSELOR: Could be both?
PATIENT: I'm immune from that kind of thing. 
COUNSELOR: How can he be so ...
PATIENT: So shallow.
COUNSELOR: Shallow.
PATIENT: And closed (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Okay. You feel like scoffing at him in a way. [6:02]
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: Granted one thing that I see that's really helping me by coming here. Because it seems like since I started this job I'm actually going back to the state of mind where I was seventeen or sixteen - around there. 
COUNSELOR: And what's that?
PATIENT: Very degrading of other people. And I feel it sometimes. I have to go through house bound to feel good. Or at least contradictive in something I say. 
COUNSELOR: Sometimes you have to put down (a ruler) (ph) and that'll make you feel better.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I haven't been like that for the longest time. 
COUNSELOR: And you thought you'd grown out of that?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: It also seems like I'm lying in my way to impress people.
COUNSELOR: Right. [9:08]
PATIENT: Or sometimes just exaggerating in a sense (inaudible at 9:10) And I hate that. 
COUNSELOR: But it seems like somehow - it's almost like that's going - is that going back to something you did before too? You really look at yourself doing this sort of thing and hate yourself for acting like that again. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
[Pause]
PATIENT: I think I kind of ... it's like a way of getting attention for me. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 10:42)
PATIENT: And if it ever does work I mean to get attention from people. It almost seems kind of cheap. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you'd like to have the attention very much. But when you get it that way it just doesn't seem like the right - doesn't really feel like the way you want to do it ... even if it works.
[Pause]
PATIENT: And it seems like the source of attention that I have is my girlfriend. And that that's not very reliable sometimes. [12:11]
COUNSELOR: You're telling me it feels like no one else really cares that much about ... about you.
[Pause]
PATIENT: Then Saturday night we had kind of I don't know not really a fight ... kind of a misunderstanding. It seemed like at first I mean when I - she seemed very cool to me. Actually I had a rotten day. And she just wanted to relax and forget it all. But she couldn't let it stop bugging her. And so after a while it got so that she was very kind of silly I guess to try to get herself out of it and (go on with it) (ph). And I don't know why but that effected me very much. 
COUNSELOR: Was you angry (about it) (ph)?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because like when she feels rotten I can sympathize with her because I know how it feels. And I don't know it seems kind of like a sharing. But when she acts silly to cover up the fact that she feels rotten then the rotten feeling goes away. (But I'm just stuck assuming this) (ph). I don't know why but I can't share that. 
COUNSELOR: You can't feel that with her. You can't participate in that and that makes you feel far away you mean from that? The kind of 
PATIENT: Yeah it seems like she's alienating me right then. And then she talks about it - very serious subjects. In a way that it's almost certain that at least from my point of view that she's not thinking about what she's saying. And that kind of puts me in (inaudible at 15:07) that way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [15:08]
PATIENT: Like she was making all kinds of jokes like about being pregnant. Which I hope she isn't. (inaudible at 15:20) not yet anyway. And that's completely opposite from the way she really is. She would never joke about it. 
COUNSELOR: It almost sounds like it hurts you when she's not serious about something ... that you want her to take seriously. 
PATIENT: And I kind of told her that I couldn't understand why she was acting so silly. And she said she was just kind of having fun and enjoying herself. And like I said somehow it was making me feel bad. Yeah and then I felt even more rotten because sometimes she tries so hard to be nice to me even when she doesn't want to be. Just to kind of pass time you know. And it doesn't - usually doesn't work because when I'm in a rotten mood there's very little that can cheer me up or whatever. Make me happy like ... like her aunt did. In a certain way this is going to make me get out of a certain mood. And so she's very disappointed when I don't get out of it because she's acts nice and it seems from her side that I'm kind of unpleasable (sp?) no matter what she does. There's no way she can please me. And so this is just kind of like one more incident to prove it to her. Like just to kind of rub it in that she (inaudible at 17:33) the way she acted. 
COUNSELOR: By her acting silly for example?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It's just kind of underlined the fact that she can change moods completely. If anything you'll still be solemn and unhappy. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Well that's not the main point. What I really meant was ... like this is I think this is more from her point of view than mine. But everything I tell her I don't think the way she's acting it's kind of a cut. I don't realize it until after I've said it and it's too late then. And then it just feels a lot more worse for me. Because then not only is the behavior bugging me but then I have the fact that I said it and that it kind of hurt her. [18:37]
COUNSELOR: And you feel guilty about that?
PATIENT: Yeah. It just kind of (inaudible at 18:50) Because that happens too often. Because it's happened before. 
COUNSELOR: But that makes it sound like you feel that you shouldn't tell her. That it isn't helping you. That what would really - what you'd really like is for her to believe that it is even though it isn't. 
PATIENT: And sometimes I tell her well don't worry about it. I'll act (inaudible at19:22) just do what you want. If you want to act silly go ahead. If you want to act rotten go ahead. The way you act is up to you. And then I turn that around and tell her like I contradict myself by telling her well I don't really like the way that you acted. 
COUNSELOR: When there is that contradiction of things?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: The contradiction is like ... the words. And that makes me (inaudible at 19:51) Because it is that right? I just keep doing it. I remember when I use to be able to kind of let her be whatever she wanted to be. And if she wanted to be silly I'd let her. And it wouldn't really affect me because I knew she wasn't like that all of the time and just like a couple hours on the side. Like why should it bother me? But still we got a lot in common. But now I can't do that anymore because it bugs me so much. 
COUNSELOR: (Bugs you) (ph)?
PATIENT: It's not that it bugs me. It affects me somehow. I could like become kind of touchy.
COUNSELOR: Touchy when she's in some kind of mood that's bothering you, you mean? [21:05]
PATIENT: Touchy in that could never satisfy. Like when she's real nice to me I'm not satisfied with that. But yet then I start wondering why she's being nice to me. 
COUNSELOR: You mean when she's real nice to you, you don't believe simple. That she wants to be nice to you. You kind of don't trust that at face value when you.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You probably just think what's happened to me that I'm being so touchy. And it's so hard for me to let her be free.
PATIENT: Yeah.
[Pause]
PATIENT: Actually enjoy doing something by myself this (weekend) (ph).
COUNSELOR: (You sound relieved) (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah. I set by the (inaudible at 22:31) and it's the same feeling as (inaudible at 22:35). And I don't know if it was the cool breeze or the fan or something going but it's feeling the same thing right now with the air conditioner running. But just listening to certain parts of this just feels so angry (ph). Turned up full blast and with speakers on my ears. It kind of sent a chill through the bottom of my spine up into my neck and then through my neck back down to the you know. And all of my muscles and everything was - I get goose pimples all over me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And it felt good. Just to know that all these certain types of - but only some of them do that. Like a certain cord or a certain key in it. And it's 
COUNSELOR: Just the little parts of it that would set that off.
PATIENT: Yeah. There's this one - it's really kind of a wild sign. And it's almost all electric instruments in it. Like synthesizers and they have all kinds of weird sounds that comes out. And I really turn round (ph). I was afraid I would blow the speakers out. But I didn't. I was lucky. And I turned that up and I just put my face into one of the speakers. And it felt so good because it was like I had completely lost myself. And it feeled that. [24:06]
COUNSELOR: You were taken over by the whole feeling.
PATIENT: The only senses I had was my ears and that feeling. And when I sat there I just I was kind of leaning my chin up right in front of the speaker. And I half believe my body was (inaudible at 24:25) my chin. And I couldn't even feel it. And then pretty soon I couldn't hear anything anymore. And it wasn't the speakers weren't really that loud. And I still heard it. But I didn't notice hearing it. Because all I would notice was that feeling. The chills running up and down my spine. 
COUNSELOR: Part of what was so good about that that you could get so absorbed in that.
PATIENT: Yeah. It was like completely forgetting about my bad news. It was like my mind was half dead. 
COUNSELOR: Being able to forget.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: I guess it was like (drug taking that my friends would comment about) (ph). Feels pretty good. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 25:32)
PATIENT: Oh rush. 
COUNSELOR: Oh a rush. Oh I see.
PATIENT: I know I had another - I hadn't kind of felt that before listening to those records. Or it wasn't like this. Because I kind of purposely picked out the records just to get that feeling. 
COUNSELOR: So it was very intense.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you were really pleased that you could get there - get that feeling for yourself?
PATIENT: Right. I think part of it is I have to be kind of alone too. Because I can't first of all because I can't turn up the speakers because I know everybody's home. And the thing about when everybody else is in the house I feel kind of like they're about to walk in the door and see me sitting there just doing nothing. What kind of gay thing is he doing sitting there? Something's wrong. [27:01]
COUNSELOR: And you afraid you'd feel disapproval from them?
PATIENT: Yeah. And then I was listening to this one song. Do you keep up with Phat Music at all?
COUNSELOR: A little bit.
PATIENT: Okay that's that new one by (inaudible at 27:26) called Solitary. And it's really a very one song. It's about 45 years old now. And I was just sitting there and I had the original album. It was the first album I ever bought. (laughs) (inaudible at 27:44) I turned it way down low and I was singing along with it very slow. And it felt like there was no chills anymore. It just felt like if I'd stop singing the song I would fall over dead.
COUNSELOR: Like you were about as close to nothing in sleep and death which would be good.
PATIENT: Yeah. And that song was kind of like the only thing I ... I was sensing. There was nothing else. And it was almost like I was mumbling it (inaudible at 28:33) I was singing. But very, very soft. I thought how weird it was just doing that. Because I had never been able to play that song like that before. 
COUNSELOR: Never been able to get that sensation before.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Is there some kind of quality in what you're telling me you feel happy that you could create something that you could enjoy? And happy that you could actually make it and get there?
PATIENT: Yeah kind of. It's kind of like shutting everything out. And some people I guess would call it sitting there listening to themselves except I know that there's nothing there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's like sitting there listening to a silence?
PATIENT: Yeah and even that sounds good compared to listening to it. 
COUNSELOR: Just being able to shut things out and turn it off. [29:59]
PATIENT: Yeah. Like I was just sitting here looking at that little picture on the wall that and I just realize that without taking my eyes off the picture I can very well focus my eyes until I could - it would be invisible. And I'd still be looking at it. 
COUNSELOR: And seeing nothing.
PATIENT: Yeah all I see is a big blur. And then the light would go very dim. And I would (inaudible at 30:34) of disappearing. And only the room would be this kind of a haze. 
COUNSELOR: That that weather would be soothing ... to just (inaudible at 30:54).
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I don't know if it's soothing. Because when I think of soothing it's like having a back rub or something. To me that is kind of soothing. But this is so different. It's more like withdrawing from it ... other than drawing it.
COUNSELOR: More like pulling away.
PATIENT: Because for soothing, soothing would be like I would be enjoying something using my senses. And this is kind of like I'm just like I completely turning off my senses. And yeah soothing. (yawns and laughs) I was going to say just calming. Because of it's soothing.
COUNSELOR: But so
PATIENT: Kind of relaxing.
COUNSELOR: Relaxing. (inaudible at 32:28)
PATIENT: Yeah. I've been thinking a lot about taking drugs. And this girl I know at the hospital she was sitting there Sunday next to me looking at my veins in my arms that stick out about a half an inch. And she's oh wouldn't that be beautiful for (inaudible at 32:59) And I said just keep your hands off. She just she kept persisting. And I said you're not going to be happy until you get a needle in my arm are you? And she said nope. And I said well we'll have to work on it after work. And then afterwards I kind of thought I wonder what it would be like to shoot up cocaine. She says it's like instant orgasm. [33:29]
[Pause]
PATIENT: Sounds good.
[Pause}
PATIENT: I'm just wondering on how life would seem so bad I would have to go to drugs ... to stimulate.
COUNSELOR: If that were you'd be going there?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because your life really does seem pretty dim.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 34:15) can really say. No not say. Like being out with my girl is kind of very bright spot. I think well that's even kind of tireish (sp?). 
COUNSELOR: (How so) (ph)?
PATIENT: Like I ruin everything I touch. 
COUNSELOR: Like everything you touch turns a dark color. It's like your life is a piece of gray with a little spot on it that's kind of brilliant. It shines out some from the rest.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 35:03) kind of like the rest. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: I don't think I'm going to take up cocaine. Because I think the promise doesn't seem like that. I almost don't care anymore. 
COUNSELOR: You what?
PATIENT: I almost don't care anymore. [36:13] 
COUNSELOR: You mean if you stop caring then you'll take cocaine?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: If I care a little bit then I might try it. But it's (inaudible at 36:28)
COUNSELOR: If you don't even care enough to try that.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And like nothing seems to be worth that to try.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I can kind of sit there and in my mind I could say when it's all you're done. So it's just the values they were picking out. I don't know. It's not really actual it's just the way you subjectively do which I think has changed. Yeah it's
COUNSELOR: Are you talking about the blackness? The reason that black (inaudible at 37:21)
PATIENT: Yeah it still is. It doesn't get rationalized away. 
[Pause]
COUNSELOR: I guess I really have no clue here. As what all that dismalness is. 
PATIENT: It's not so much dismal. Well I don't know maybe it is. I get (inaudible at 38:25) to it. It' not like ...dismal would be feeling rotten. And this is feeling rotten but in a kind of different way. Its like completely destroyed. Like it feels like I've been burnt some many times it easier than pulling my finger out because it'll just get very (inaudible at 38:52). 
COUNSELOR: So not only rotten but rotten ... almost like rotten in a corner or [39:04]
PATIENT: Yeah. Everything kind of (inaudible at 39:24) Feeling like I'm just going to wake up someday and I can say I don't want to live like that anymore. Well let's just keep my ... the way it is. 
COUNSELOR: Like you can't really imagine comprehending it.
PATIENT: I feel like I just get tired of it. It's the same every day. 
COUNSELOR: And it also sounds like when you're in that corner it's like a feeling of having been hurt a whole lot of times. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Angry. Something my girlfriend said to me saying it's like I hurt myself. 
COUNSELOR: Not only do other people hurt do it but you add to the scars yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah it's like the scars wouldn't be scar unless I let them be scars. I don't know that just kind of gets turned back on me. Like if I do that it makes it seem even worse because of the fact that I do it.
COUNSELOR: Is that something you feel you do?
PATIENT: Yeah sometimes I do.
COUNSELOR: And that even makes it worse that you're helping it along.
PATIENT: It's like I'm trying to teach myself a lesson by doing that. I kind of say to myself well quit sticking your finger out or you're just going to get burned again. It's like kind of make the hurt - make it hurt worse. So that I'll learn next time. 
COUNSELOR: Almost like a part wants to stay in the corner and wants to say stop pushing you're fingers out of here. [41:58]
PATIENT: Yeah. Leave it to me. 
COUNSELOR: It's the stone in your pipe.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: Sometimes I wish I was like sometimes right now I kind of wonder what it would be like not to be able to speak. Not to be able to hear or smell or touch. Just kind of (inaudible at 43:31) And know that no matter how hard I try I couldn't do anything about any of it. Like maybe if I was paralyzed. Because then all I could do would be to sit there in that haze. Or maybe keep my eyes on the (inaudible at 43:49) Then everything would kind of pass by me. [43:55] 
COUNSELOR: Nothing would touch you. And you wouldn't touch anything. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Until there was nothing left except my imagination. And then I would be kind of free to do anything I want to do. 
COUNSELOR: Why do you say you'd be free? You mean free in your imagination?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'd have no distractions. 
COUNSELOR: So that makes it sound like when you do these things to cut all your senses off to cut off everything. In a way you're hoping to get some kind of freedom that way.
PATIENT: Yeah. Except it's more like freedom as in running other than freedom as just getting something. 
COUNSELOR: Freedom as in running. Do you mean running away or just? 
PATIENT: Yeah. Rather than freedom to withdraw something there'd be freedom from any (more incidents) (ph). And that would be more meaningful than staying there playing in my imagination. 
COUNSELOR: Like it would be a freedom from any pressure or influence.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because that's what's so strong that pushes on you and you can't get away from.
PATIENT: How can you pressure someone who's paralyzed and can't hear?
COUNSELOR: Wouldn't you love to be raised from that pressure wound? [45:45]
[Pause]
PATIENT: They can put me anywhere they wanted to. (inaudible at 46:08) It wouldn't really matter where they put me. They could put me in jail or in a (inaudible at 46:14)
COUNSELOR: It wouldn't matter because you'd be in a different room. It wouldn't matter what they did to your body.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that is part of pain right now is that it doesn't and they can do things to you.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 46:37) Don't remind me of it.
COUNSELOR: You want to try to forget that? 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
PATIENT: Just that I don't know what that situation or reaction would be. I'd feel like I was dead. Maybe that's (inaudible at 47:35) 
COUNSELOR: Maybe what?
PATIENT: Maybe that's more like what I want.
COUNSELOR: So what you really want is to (die more) (ph)?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
[Pause]
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering what you're thinking now. I'm wondering if that seems like pressure to you for me to ask that. [50:02]
PATIENT: No it doesn't seem like pressure. I'm trying to think of something that actually means something to me. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 50:34)
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: But it seems that there's nothing that really seems important to you?
[Pause]
PATIENT: Not a thing. I'm kind of like what's left? Like everything is dead. (inaudible at 51:43) going.
COUNSELOR: (You can't wait) (ph)?
PATIENT: It's kind of like it seems like (inaudible at 52:01) somehow. 
COUNSELOR: Seems what?
PATIENT: Like waiting (ph) on something on someone else. (inaudible at 52:07) really takes anything from you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (inaudible at 52:17)
PATIENT: It feels like there's really nothing there to take. 
COUNSELOR: That there just wasn't anything there.
PATIENT: Yeah. Now all that's left that they can take is (my labor and give me something) (ph) in return.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But there's nothing there like that they can take that would be meaningful to you ... (that you want to lose it) (ph). [53:00]
PATIENT: Except maybe the (inaudible at 53:08) They could still take that away. 
COUNSELOR: You still have that.
PATIENT: It's slowly coming. It's disappearing.
COUNSELOR: Right now you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. Just kind of continue on in some other way because (inaudible at 53:37)
COUNSELOR: Do you find that hopeless? It's getting dimmer than it was before. 
PATIENT: Like pieces of it chipping off. And it's not even chipping off. It's crumbling I guess.
COUNSELOR: I guess that must make you feel a little sorry for yourself too to be in that kind of state.
PATIENT: Whenever I hear that feeling sorry for yourself it makes kind of reactions I agree. Like oh never me. Even if I do I would never admit it. 
COUNSELOR: Like that's sort of one of the things you won't - I don't want to ever feel.
PATIENT: I guess. Because it's kind of like I can kind of rationalize it and say oh I'm doing thing or that. Kind of an objective point of view. Kind of weighing the balance. And it's coming out of the backslide. So if I feel bad it's because of that. And that just kind of like (inaudible at 55:25) But yeah I guess I'm kind of feeling sorry for myself.
[Pause]
PATIENT: Sitting in that group I was wondering how I would act if I could.
COUNSELOR: Wondering if you got to be angry?
PATIENT: I just (inaudible at 56:29) like to be over with. I think all I would do would be to sit down (inaudible at 56:34) relax and just stare at the floor. And I don't like I would say anything. I would just care less.
COUNSELOR: But you wouldn't want - you wouldn't take part in it? [56:48]
PATIENT: Not really.
COUNSELOR: You won't hear what was happening? Or you wouldn't show that? Or do anything just sit there?
PATIENT: Get on my feet kind of like ... how to beat it. Seeing that I think I would be really happy ... if I was completely ignored.
COUNSELOR: Would you want to be ignored?
PATIENT: Yes because that would ... it would kind of like saying to me that I have a right to privacy even when I'm with people.
COUNSELOR: Just something that very much like to have.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 57:37) We're going to have to stop. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It's 8:30.
PATIENT: Okay. I'll see you Wednesday then.
COUNSELOR: Yeah Wednesday at seven. Okay. 
END TRANSCRIPT
