Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So where should we start?
CLIENT: I found out yesterday that the State health had rejected my application.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: Like I'm on the Health Cobra right now, but I think it's because they're under the mistaken impression that I can just get insurance through the school, but that was when I wasn't eligible for Commonwealth Care. For the state health, they were like "You don't fit all these different things." Also one of the ones that I didn't fit that would've applied I guess is long-term unemployment.
But yeah, the Commonwealth Care was because they were like "Oh, you either already have insurance or have the ability to get insurance through your employer." So I had to get a letter from work if I want to do that and send it to them, and it will still take two weeks. If I do one of the Blue Cross HMOs, I think even if they let me sign up since I missed the open enrollment period, I don't think I can get it until October 1st.
[01:09.5]
THERAPIST: Where would you get the Blue Cross from? Privately?
CLIENT: It would be privately or like doing it through the Commonwealth Choice, I think would be my best bet. Like I have to call them this afternoon, and I've already made a zillion phone calls.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry it has been so complicated.
CLIENT: I'm just like, I don't know, I wish I had — but I had no way of knowing. You think they'd be able to figure it out from the fact that I make less than $12,000 a year — or $1,200 a year. I make less than $1,200 a year. Of course they're not going to offer me insurance, considering that places often won't offer insurance to people who work like 15 hours a week and get like, you know, maybe like $10,000 a year from the place.
[02:01.1]
THERAPIST: I don't think there's a lot of thought involved.
CLIENT: It's just like, of course they're not going to offer me insurance. I work five hours a week, and I put there that I work five hours a week. No one offers insurance to someone who works five hours a week. No one. Otherwise, if I had, then why would I have been applying in the first place?
So the fact that I need that letter now, you know, it wasn't like before that they were like "Oh, by the way, you should also send a letter from anyone who might be employing you that you can't get health insurance through them." You know, that's not anywhere on the application materials. It doesn't tell you that you need that information. So the fact that it's being delayed even more, and I'm not even sure I want to do that at this point, because I'm just afraid I'm going to have to fight for everything. Maybe it would be cheaper just to do one of the Blue Cross HMOs, but those are like all — even the least expensive one is like about $350 a month.
THERAPIST: That's a lot of money.
[02:58.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. So, I mean, I guess it's better than — yeah, the most expensive is like $600-something a month. But also, yeah, I'm just really really worried, and I don't like the fact that I'm not going to have real insurance until October. Like I don't know if they'll retroactively cover me but —
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don't know about that.
CLIENT: So I have to like, you know, I'm starting to run low on all my prescriptions, and I have to fill them up somewhere that the Cobra takes. But I don't even have proof that I'm in the Cobra. I [need to write it down again]. I guess I call them up and if I go through the automated system, they'll give me the number for them but I never got anything. That letter didn't say "Oh by the way, we put you on Health Cobra." They just said I was ineligible for State Health, so I don't have like a card or anything like that. So I think I'm going to have to pay for the prescriptions out-of-pocket, and I'm down to like three Klonopin or something.
[04:05.5]
THERAPIST: So you have to do that.
CLIENT: So I have to do that. And that's also really scary. Like what's the point? If they're going to put me on the Cobra, how am I supposed to even prove? Like I don't think my number would be enough. Maybe if I had a temporary card, but I don't. I don't have anything. I have no proof at all.
THERAPIST: But you have the number that will be on your temporary card? The number —
CLIENT: I can get it. I don't have it with me because when I was making the call, I didn't have access to a pen and paper.
THERAPIST: Okay. But it seems like that's an important step to take is to make that phone call again. Write your number down because when you do go to the pharmacy, they can input your number into their system that verifies insurance. I would imagine that — I mean, when they take your card, all they're doing is copying down your number.
CLIENT: But I guess — well, the other thing is also that, I mean when I was looking at the different health centers, they only put one center like primary care, optical, or maybe something else, but they don't put anything about where to get prescriptions.
[05:11.4]
And I think maybe [Hospitals] might, but I don't know that. So I don't even know where I can get my prescriptions filled. They don't have that information on their website.
THERAPIST: It's a very frustrating process. I know there've been a lot of hurdles.
CLIENT: I just want to give up at this point.
THERAPIST: I can understand wanting to.
CLIENT: I'd just get the Blue Cross, but the cheapest plan is like $350 [and up] and that's like — (crying)
THERAPIST: I'm assuming a lot more than if you continue through this process.
CLIENT: Yeah, a lot more, but then again if they don't cover therapy then it will be worth it to not have the Blue Cross HMO. So, I don't know. I really don't know. Yeah, I think —
[06:16.7]
THERAPIST: If you're weighing the cost of therapy as part of your decision, just be aware that I'm not on the HMO for Blue Cross.
CLIENT: Oh, you're not? Damn it.
THERAPIST: The HMO uses a different provider panel.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So you can use that for therapy, but you can't use it for me for therapy.
CLIENT: Then there is nothing that will pay for you anyway, so —
THERAPIST: You may be able to get permission from one of the state plans because they sometimes allow for continuation with an out-of-network therapist, whereas the Blue Cross won't have that loophole. Now, it's not a guarantee when you apply for permission to continue with a previous therapist through one of the state health care plans. You're not guaranteed [a response], but there's a possibility.
[07:11.7]
CLIENT: I feel that there's no way I could privately get Blue Cross PPO.
THERAPIST: I don't know. I mean, I don't know about that, what they — I don't know what's available for purchase or what the cost would be. PPOs are always more expensive than HMOs.
CLIENT: I know. It's [so ridiculous paying for therapy] out-of-pocket. (pause) In that case, I guess I should still go to State Health, but then I have to wait 14 days from when they get the letter which I —
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: — you know, they're going to get me the letter, but like it will still be another two weeks. So I really don't know what to do at this point. I am so sick of making phone calls.
[08:13.9]
I guess I have to copy things to send in, and I don't have access to a scanner until tomorrow. So I really don't know what to do about it. Like I guess the only thing I can — (voices overlapping)
THERAPIST: Can you fax things in from copy shop downstairs?
CLIENT: Maybe. I don't have the forms with me, though. They're back at Sydney's place.
THERAPIST: But there may be other places like that around that you could —
CLIENT: I mean, I still have to wait for the letter in any case. So, maybe. It's just going to cost more money though. (pause) Maybe I could fax things in from downstairs.
[09:16.3]
But it's a moot point until I get that letter. (pause) I don't know what to do. It's like — it feels like I don't deserve health insurance because I don't have a job. (crying) No place is going to give me health insurance. In this case, I'd be better off quitting work, but I don't want to do that because I feel I should be earning some money to at least defray the cost of my spending money. So it's better than not working at all, but because they think that Work will give me insurance, I have to —
THERAPIST: You're going to get a letter from Work —
CLIENT: I'm going to get a letter.
THERAPIST: — explaining that they're not offering you health insurance, so quitting doesn't do you anything different than getting that letter, except to deprive you of the money that you are making for your time there.
[10:16.6]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You do know what to do. You keep plugging along. You wait. You request the letter. You asked for the letter. You send the letter in.
CLIENT: But it will be two weeks from then.
THERAPIST: But you don't have other choices. It's buy the Blue Cross or keep following the system, as convoluted as it is.
CLIENT: But I don't think there's anything I could have done sooner. Like I did everything and if I had applied sooner, they would've just been like "You still have health insurance through the library," so it's not really like I would be in any different position right now. Like I did everything as fast as I could. (crying)
THERAPIST: And this is the system. It's a crappy system with these kinds of hurdles and loopholes and time delays. It's nothing to do with your deservedness.
[11:14.4]
CLIENT: It's like they just don't actually want to insure anyone and they'll try to deny me from coverage. So what's the point of having this whole "Oh yes, everyone in the state can get health care" thing when it's just not true.
THERAPIST: It's complicated to get it, and you need to keep plugging along. I don't know why it's complicated, but if you keep plugging along it should come through. I mean, there was a mistake in how they read what was available to you. They made an inaccurate assumption based on the fact that you have a part-time job.
CLIENT: And I couldn't have not given them that information because I would have been lying and because for proof of citizenship — or proof of whatever, like proof of income, I guess — is I had to send my tax form. My tax form mentions that I have this income from Work. So —
[12:19.5]
THERAPIST: You've done the right things and it got — however they input things, it ticked off some box that said "employed" and now you're going back to verify exactly what that employment is and let them know that does not impact your eligibility. It's laborious but it's what you have to do.
CLIENT: And then it's like two weeks from that — or 14 calendar days, so that is two weeks, which is a really long time. And then I don't even know if I'd get the coverage right away or if I'd have to wait longer. (sniffling) I guess I could go down to the office in person. If I'd gone before, maybe that would be quicker because then I could just possibly get them to make a decision right there and then. (pause) Yeah, like when I was asking the guy about it, he was all like "Oh, what's your number?" and I'm like "I don't have one."
[13:19.1]
Like the member ID number is not on the letter. That slot is blank because I'm not a member. (pause) And like I was trying to compare all the HMOs and it turns out that I guess it doesn't even matter which one I get because none of them work because — and there's no way to get Blue Cross PPO unless I like — (crying) I don't even know.
I don't think there is a way for me to get Blue Cross PPO unless maybe somehow I can pretend to be an employee and get in through them. Maybe. But like my parents are willing to pay for it, but if it's something I can't purchase then they can't really pay for it. Then I have to pay out-of-pocket for everything anyway. I'm just not going to get insurance. (crying)
[14:26.0]
And like who is to say that they still won't deny me. Like, okay, even if I do give them this proof or maybe they'll be like "It isn't official enough." They didn't say like — they just said a letter from your employer. (sniffling) They didn't say it needed to be on official letterhead or anything. But then again, I could write that letter and forge it and, you know, because I would have that ability, they don't — I'm just not sure that they would just take a letter just like that. I don't know, maybe they'll like call for confirmation or something.
THERAPIST: Or maybe work, will give you one on letterhead.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. I don't even know if they have letterhead. [Like if they do] I haven't seen it, so I'm not sure they have letterhead. (sniffling) They're photocopying it and faxing it anyway. It's not really going to —
[15:33.2]
THERAPIST: You can only it one step at a time. Your next task was to get a letter explaining. You can only do one step at a time.
CLIENT: [I went to the website and] how am I supposed to get my prescriptions if they don't tell me where to go to get them? (crying)
THERAPIST: You need to call.
CLIENT: (pause) Maybe there just isn't a card for the Healthcare Cobra. Maybe they don't even bother. And I don't know how long that's eligible until I know when it runs out. They didn't give me any of that information. (sniffling) The fact that they didn't even like include that in the letter or send that letter at the same time, it's like really —
THERAPIST: Is there a phone number on the letter so you can call and ask these questions to someone?
CLIENT: I already did call and ask about other things. I haven't asked about the —
THERAPIST: Seems like maybe making a list of questions so that when you get someone on the phone, you can do your whole list of questions.
[16:34.0]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because I know sometimes getting to a real live person can be a process.
CLIENT: I ended up having to press zero a few times to do it, because none of these options actually are telling me what I need to know. So I will press zero until they transfer me.
THERAPIST: And so you'll have to do that again. I would suggest sitting — before you make the phone call — sitting down and writing out your list of questions so that once you get a person on the phone, you can get all of them answered. You know, where do you get your scripts, how long is this good for, what do I do since I don't have an actual card. Those are some of the things I've heard you say thus far today.
CLIENT: Yeah. They theoretically pay for mental health but I think it's only people in the — so I'd have to find a new therapist for that too, and I don't want to do that.
[17:28.7]
THERAPIST: Okay, so then the other question is how do I find out what the network of therapists is, and what is the process for seeing someone out-of-network.
CLIENT: I'm pretty sure Cobra doesn't cover out-of-network. It was pretty —
THERAPIST: Well, but you ask anyway.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: If they do it, it would not be an advertised benefit because it's a lot more expensive for them to cover someone out-of-network.
CLIENT: Sure, but they say "We only cover people within the system." So I think maybe they're lying, but if they're not lying that means they only cover people in the system and they don't do out-of-network. They might not advertise it, but they would at least — you know, because the language isn't ambiguous there. (pause) So —
[18:27.5]
I don't know why — maybe because I don't get unemployment and I can't qualify for the long-term unemployment, but I wasn't employed long. I haven't even gotten a real job yet, so like, you know, it seems like they don't have anything in place for people who haven't gotten a real job yet. (crying) I'm certainly (inaudible) the income, so I don't know why you have to have been employed in order to get State Health. It didn't say that anywhere, but from the letter it seems that's why I didn't get State Health, and the Commonwealth Care was because they think I can get it through my employer and they're wrong.
THERAPIST: What's the difference between Commonwealth Care and State Health?
CLIENT: I think State Health is completely free and Commonwealth Care is subsidized. But not completely free.
THERAPIST: So if you can get Commonwealth Care, you don't really need State Health.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's similar things for slightly different populations.
[19:35.3]
CLIENT: You can't really get both anyway. You can either get one or the other or neither, but you can't get both. (pause) Seems the only way I can actually get adequate insurance is to commit insurance fraud.
THERAPIST: Why are you coming to that conclusion?
CLIENT: Because the Blue Cross HMO isn't going to cover you anyway, so it's not even worth it at that point. (sniffling) And State Health, I don't know if they're going to, and Health Cobra definitely won't. Therefore, the only way is to get it through my parents again, and the only way I can get it through my parents is to pretend that I'm working for Adlers (ph) because you can't just go and buy Blue Cross PPO. (sniffling)
[20:39.7]
At least as far as I know. Because when (inaudible) was looking at plans and was looking at websites, the Blue Cross website only mentioned HMOs and didn't mention PPOs. So, I don't know, maybe if I call them they'd tell me differently but — (pause) Or I have to stop going to therapy or something, and I can't do that. (crying)
THERAPIST: There is the option of transferring to somebody new, and there is also the option of getting on one of these insurance plans and paying for your therapy out-of-pocket and not everything else. If you're prepared to pay for a much more expensive plan, it may not actually be that much of a financial difference.
[21:35.6]
If you're thinking of paying $600 a month for an insurance plan, your therapy isn't going to be that much. It's going to be comparable.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. (pause) I guess. It just seems like to ask my parents to pay for — I mean, they're willing to pay for everything out-of-pocket. They just, you know, it's not the best option.
THERAPIST: So let's take the next steps. Let's see what happens when you get your letter from Work.
CLIENT: If I get my letter from work.
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't you?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe they'll forget about it and do more important things. (sniffling)
THERAPIST: So remind them.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: This is an important thing. This is something that you need from an employer. Just because it's a part-time employer does not mean that it's not important for you to get the letter that you need.
CLIENT: It's important for me, but it's not important for them.
[22:34.7]
THERAPIST: It's not that difficult for them. It's important for you. It's something they need to cooperate with, and it's not that hard to produce a letter that says "We employ this person. She works this many hours per week. We do not offer health care for that." You're not asking them to write a 70-page thesis.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: And then you have to wait out the process and see what happens with your application to Commonwealth Care after that. Let's not jump seven steps ahead, assuming that it doesn't work.
CLIENT: [But I don't want to have to wait] —
THERAPIST: I know you don't.
CLIENT: — pay the money so I don't have to wait, but I can't because I can't get a Blue Cross PPO anymore. Unless I start another degree program, but that would be even more expensive and I can't — I've missed all the application deadlines for anything that would start in the fall or even in the spring at this point. (sniffling)
[23:42.3]
THERAPIST: That seems like a very expensive way to get health insurance.
CLIENT: Yeah, but — unless I apply for a Ph.D. program, then I'd be getting a grant, a stipend and health insurance.
THERAPIST: Does this seem like a logical response to you?
CLIENT: It doesn't seem like there is a logical response. Like, it's outrageous but it's not any more outrageous than anything else right now. It's not like I can get a job anyways. I don't really want to do a Ph.D., but I don't even know if any program would take me for a Ph.D. (pause) Yeah, it probably wouldn't even be worth it.
[24:44.5]
THERAPIST: It seems like a lot of time and effort if you're thinking that it's too much effort to make a phone call. Writing a Ph.D. thesis seems like more.
CLIENT: Well, I could always drop out of the Ph.D. program and they wouldn't retroactively take away my funding. I wouldn't actually have to write the thesis. There are people who do that and they'll go to the Ph.D. program to get their master's for free and then drop out. It's probably expensive for the school, but people do it all the time. Or they go thinking they're going to finish their Ph.D. and then they don't. (pause) Then my parents wouldn't have to support me because I'd be supporting myself because I'd be in a Ph.D. program. (pause)
[25:42.2]
I still need application — I'd probably have to write things for the application process too, so it probably wouldn't be easy to just get in even though I have pretty good transcripts and stuff. (pause) I really don't want a third master's degree.
THERAPIST: It seems like the challenge here is to navigate the insurance system, and this is a very creative solution to avoiding that.
CLIENT: Well, the challenge is to navigate that and then get them to say yes, and if they don't say yes then I'm screwed. There's nothing I can do anyways. (sniffling)
THERAPIST: The purpose of the system is to insure people who don't have access to insurance through employment or education, and you do fit that criteria. So what's happened at this point is there is a misunderstanding.
[26:47.3]
They're thinking that you have access to insurance through Work. They're wrong, and you're going to give them the evidence for that. So I'm not yet willing to think it's impossible for you to get insurance. You are exactly the kind of person. You're in the position for what the system is created for. You're in between the gap of being a student insured through your education and employed and insured through your employer. This is why the system exists. It's complicated and it's time-intensive, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't work at all for you. You haven't exhausted the system yet.
[27:49.0]
CLIENT: Yet. I'm just afraid they're still going to say that or say "Well, you passed the enrollment period, so now we're not going to let you" and stuff.
THERAPIST: We don't know that those things have happened or are going to happen.
CLIENT: They might. (sniffling) (pause) I'm just afraid that they're also going to be like "Well, we don't actually want to cover your prescriptions because they're expensive" and stuff. (sniffling) And then I'll have to pay for those myself too, and that would add up to like — the prescriptions would be like $500.
THERAPIST: You need to find out if they're covered, but it's not a personal decision. They don't decide that they don't feel like covering this person and we will cover this person. You find out. Either Klonopin is covered or it's not.
[28:50.9]
CLIENT: Yeah, the Klonopin would be like the cheapest. It's hysterical it would be the most expensive.
THERAPIST: And if it's covered on the plan, then it's covered on the plan. If it's not, you need it. But it's not a personal attack on your particular prescriptions. So there is probably a list somewhere that they can give you of what's covered and what's not so you can know, rather than making guesses out of fear.
CLIENT: They might not give me those answers until I'm on their plan, and a lot of people won't —
THERAPIST: You don't have another choice right now, right? You don't have another choice at this moment. At this moment, some of your scripts are running low and you need them to be refilled. So you need to find out which ones are covered and to what degree and get what you need. Your parents have said that they're willing to pay for the things that are not covered.
CLIENT: (inaudible)
[29:48.0]
THERAPIST: Well, we only have to deal with right now. You may not reach the "what" point. Jumping on ahead to what might happen next month —
CLIENT: I don't think they realized how expensive my meds would be out-of-pocket, and they might not still be willing to pay for them. Or they're going to tell me that I don't need them or something.
THERAPIST: You're looking for things to increase your distress. They've told you they would pay. You're looking for ways to not believe them. I'm not sure why you're doing that.
CLIENT: Because I don't believe them. Like I believe they want to pay, but they're already low — I mean, I guess soon they'll close on the house and then they'll have money again. But until they close on the house, they really don't have much money right now. So I don't even know how they'll afford the prescriptions that are costing me like $500 a month. (pause)
[31:01.4]
I just don't want to make any more phone calls, but I have to. I really hate making phone calls. I just spend the entire day making phone calls, and I don't want to make phone calls because I've made all the phone calls anyways, and it should have been enough and it wasn't. (sniffling) (pause)
THERAPIST: I know you don't like doing this stuff.
CLIENT: I really hate doing this stuff. I wish I could hire someone to do this stuff for me. I don't think I can.
THERAPIST: I think it's something that you need to confront and get through until you get what you need. I know you don't like doing it, but you can do it. You can do things that are hard. You can do things that you don't like.
[31:59.8]
You're very capable of it, even though you don't like it. And you will feel much relieved when you have actual answers rather than imagining all the worst possible case scenarios. Even if some of the answers that you get confirm some of your fears, right now you're dealing with all of the imagined worst case scenario fears, and that's a lot.
CLIENT: I'm just so afraid they're going to be like "You can take other drugs" or something like that, and my next psychiatrist appointment isn't until the end of October, so like if they tell me that I have to take different drugs —
[33:01.6]
THERAPIST: They're not going to prescribe medication for you, Georgia (sp?). I'm sure they have a list of what they cover, what they don't, and to what degree. But they're not going to tell you that you can't take a medication. They're going to tell you that they're going to pay for it or not pay for it, but your prescriptions come from your psychiatrist. You don't get to just make substitutions. Neither does the insurance company.
CLIENT: But they could at least suggest or they could just say they won't pay for it and then —
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean, there very well may be certain medications that they cover or don't cover, but that's not a suggestion that you should take something different. That's a suggestion that you should pay for what they're not going to cover.
CLIENT: With what money?
THERAPIST: With the money that your parents have offered to pay for your prescriptions if they're not covered by insurance.
[33:59.6]
Your parents have agreed to pay for that. Not for you to take it and put it towards something else. They've agreed to cover these things that you can't pay for right now.
CLIENT: I'm just afraid that they're just going to bother me more about the fact that I don't have a job, and I don't want to deal with that either.
THERAPIST: They might.
CLIENT: (sniffling) (pause) It's really frustrating, and I really don't want to deal with any of this anymore.
[35:02.9]
Yesterday when I found out, I was having suicidal thoughts because I just don't want to be a burden and that's what I am right now, is a burden. Because my parents are going to have to pay for my health insurance and all my meds and everything else out-of-pocket. I don't have a job and can't support myself and all I'm doing is costing my parents money. That's all I ever do. (sniffling) Is cost money.
THERAPIST: Health insurance and health care does cost money.
CLIENT: I'm just too expensive because if I didn't have to —
THERAPIST: Who said that?
CLIENT: I said that.
THERAPIST: And how much are you supposed to cost? What would be an okay expense?
CLIENT: At this point maybe even zero because I'm 27 years old and should have a job.
[35:59.0]
I shouldn't be costing them anything at this point. I should be able to support myself like people my age are supposed to be able to support themselves. I never thought I would ever be 27 and without a job. Like, at this rate, I might be 30 without a job. (sniffling) (pause) But people aren't hiring right now.
THERAPIST: You're having a really hard time getting a job. That is true. What were your thoughts yesterday? You said when you found out, you started to have suicidal thoughts. What were they like?
[36:57.0]
CLIENT: [It's just me thinking] that the world would be better off without me because all I'm doing is costing the world money instead of contributing to society, because I'm not contributing to society at all in any way right now. I'm not doing anything productive with my life. (sniffling)
THERAPIST: Are you contributing to Sydney's life?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You give him a lot of support.
CLIENT: But he's not society and he's not contributing to society either right now, technically.
THERAPIST: Well, he's a part of society. You're helping another person because you're giving him a lot of support.
CLIENT: I'm not helping the economy (inaudible at 37:33.1) more things in the world for people to buy or like providing a service or doing anything useful.
THERAPIST: Do you think people who buy stuff from your store enjoy your products?
CLIENT: Yeah, but they can get their (inaudible at 37:48.1) as easily from any other place. It's not like it's that much.
THERAPIST: It might not be a lot, but you are impacting some things.
[38:02.2]
CLIENT: Maybe. But I am spending a lot more money than I'm making. Like even just with rent and stuff. Even if I never went out to eat ever or anything, rent alone and health insurance or either of those would be way more than the money that I'm contributing to society. So therefore — (pause)
THERAPIST: At this part of the cycle, you're not making a lot of money but people are impacted by you and there may be a difference in the future.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: A different part of the cycle.
CLIENT: I don't know that it's a cycle. It might not be a cycle. I just might not ever get a job. What happens when I'm 40 and unemployed?
THERAPIST: That's a long way to jump. That's a 13-year jump.
[39:06.9]
CLIENT: But it's likely. (pause) I don't want to be spending money that I don't have. Like money that is my parents' money. I mean, I'll guess they'll have it soon when they finally close on the house in like two weeks, but —
THERAPIST: It just sounds like you're feeling really guilty.
CLIENT: Once they close on the house though they'll be able to pay off the mortgage on either house and have a little bit of money left over.
THERAPIST: That's really their money to manage. You don't get to make decisions about what they spend when. I know you've asked for the help that you need, and they have agreed to give it to you.
[40:06.9]
It's really their responsibility to worry about whether a certain amount of money on prescriptions a month is feasible for them right now.
CLIENT: But what if they say it isn't?
THERAPIST: If they say that, then we'll problem-solve together about what to do. But they haven't said that, and you don't know what you're going to need from them next month. It may be a very different picture next month. You may not have to worry about that piece.
You have to worry about what's going on right now and what are your options right now. What can you take control of right now. The pieces you have control over right now are figuring out where to get the scripts that are running out. You said the Klonopin is running really low. The others — where are you on those?
[41:08.3]
CLIENT: I'm running really low. I have a couple weeks left of Wellbutrin. I have a week left of my birth control. That one at least I know is only $30, which is fine. I can deal with that. (sniffling)
THERAPIST: I wonder can you get birth control from Planned Parenthood even less or is that the Planned Parenthood price?
CLIENT: That's CVS. I've never tried to get it from Planned Parenthood. Do you just go there with your prescription and stuff?
THERAPIST: I'm not totally sure, but I know there's one in the Square that you might be able to get to pretty easily and find out. That might be a way to save a little bit. It would be worth it. I don't know if it's easier to do the phone call or the run out there for you, but —
[42:08.1]
CLIENT: I could take — I don't know. I thought they only like gave birth control to who really couldn't afford it.
THERAPIST: I'm not sure. It might be worth checking out. We can Google it, if I can get on here. (pause) I'm going to see if there's an easy answered question. (pause)
[43:15.9]
CLIENT: Maybe they only cover some forms and not others.
THERAPIST: "Birth control refill pickups are available anytime that we are open for the patch, pill, ring, prescription refills, emergency contraceptive, spermicide, lube, dental dams and free condoms." You can get one refill at a time if you are using health insurance to cover the cost of your prescription, but you would not be. (pause) You can also get pills by mail.
[44:06.5]
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: "If you don't have insurance" — It says "If you don't have insurance, Commonwealth Care and State Health are free or low-cost insurance plans available to you. They will help you with questions for that." So one thing it doesn't say on here is how much it costs if you don't have insurance.
CLIENT: Probably because different pills cost different amounts.
THERAPIST: Yeah. But it does seem like it's pretty easy. They are open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
CLIENT: Okay.
[45:07.2]
THERAPIST: So that might be an option to help you feel like you're doing something to limit some of the cost for your parents.
CLIENT: Yeah, but that's like the least expensive —
THERAPIST: I know it's the least expensive, but maybe it can defray some of the responsibility.
CLIENT: Maybe. Or maybe my parents would tell me that I shouldn't even be taking birth control. It's sort of a convenience thing. Like I'm mostly taking it so I don't get my period because I don't want my period to happen every month. (pause) And therefore I should just — but it's the least expensive of them, so probably — and Seroquel is going to be the most expensive.
THERAPIST: But it's also very important.
CLIENT: It's not as important as the Wellbutrin. So maybe I could be taking less of it or something.
[46:07.9]
THERAPIST: Well, it seems like medication decisions about what you should take or how much you should take, I strongly feel they should be decided by how you feel, not by what it costs. If your parents were not willing to help at all and you had gone through the next round of insurance and it hadn't kicked in, then we could discuss that and you could discuss that with your psychiatrist if there were lower-cost options.
But it really does not seem that's the next logical step. Your health and your safety are really important. Yesterday you were having suicidal thoughts. It doesn't seem like now is the time to reduce the benefit of your medication. This is a stressful time.
CLIENT: That's why (inaudible) so I should just be able to deal with it and not spend all the extra money on the medications. Except that I have to.
[47:14.9]
THERAPIST: You have to. And your feelings and your symptoms are not punishments.
CLIENT: (pause) I just really don't want to deal with all of this at all, but I have to and I don't want to.
THERAPIST: I think one way to make it easier to deal with is to only look one step at a time, because when you start thinking about "If I do this and it doesn't work, what if? What if? What then next?" that's when you really start to get overwhelmed. So what I'd like you to do is take it one piece at a time because it's a lot less overwhelming. You can make one phone call. I know you don't like them, but you can do one phone call. And then you can do the next step. But when you start thinking about the next and the next and then the what-ifs, that's when you start to really feel hopeless.
[48:16.7]
So let's see if we can prevent some of that by looking only one step out. It seems to me like from talking today that the next step is to find out about really how you fill those scripts. So let's make that — you've already talked to Work, right? So you've already done that piece. So let's make that phone call to the Cobra and find out about the scripts and get that piece worked out.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I imagine that you'll feel some relief when you feel like you're not three days away from not having what you need.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today. Let's schedule some follow-ups.
CLIENT: Okay. Next week I'm actually not here on Monday, Labor Day.
[49:09.2]
THERAPIST: Labor Day. I'm not here either.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
