TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: It's pushing it.
THERAPIST: Actually none of my (door closing, inaudible at 00:00:04) have one more office beyond mine. I have been actually.
CLIENT: With other people or?
THERAPIST: No people have been on time the last two weeks.
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What do you consider to be on time?
THERAPIST: (Laughs) Ready at the time we're scheduled to meet. But today I'm running late so.
CLIENT: A guy who was just in here
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: walks out, throws away his coffee, and then just starts spinning around, goes 'oh shit!', he goes, 'which way is the hallway?' He didn't know which door to.
THERAPIST: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: You might want to put a sign 'Exit' (therapist laughs). It can be confusing.
THERAPIST: Flee this way?
CLIENT: Yeah (therapist chuckles). So I went to the Bluegrass Festival and that was fun.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:00:56]
CLIENT: Though, you know it's really weird because the friends who I went with, they had a bunch of friends coming and she broke her elbow so she
THERAPIST: Right (voices overlapping, inaudible at 00:01:09) car door.
CLIENT: she (pause) wasn't allowed to camp, which was a good idea because it ended up raining. So they had a hotel room, and their friends were just acting really weird, and some didn't show up, and (pause) they just kept apologizing to me and apologizing to me, and it's like all I wanted to do was sleep in a tent out in the woods, you know, it's like I didn't care whether—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know? So it's just kind of weird, but it ended up being a good time.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I mean for forty-six bucks it was a lot of good music.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: And I don't know if you've ever been, but it's
THERAPIST: Yeah it's cool.
CLIENT: awesome, awesome, and they just, they did it in the courtyard there so it was. I guess they've done shows where they really opened it up and had like twenty thousand people, but this was really small. They limited the number of people in there. I mean literally, the first day we parked across the street and the second day we parked in the parking lot, so you can go out your car and it was pretty cool.
THERAPIST: Cool. [00:02:14]
CLIENT: (Clears throat) It's always nice to see music that, you know bands I've never seen before. (Pause) I woke up yesterday once again with my Monday morning depression/anxiety, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And part of it was, you know I had a lot of mucus and I was not really feeling well. And part of it was I wanted to, I'm not even sure what I wanted to talk about, but I wanted to call somebody, you know. And (pause) I'm not sure what, you know, because I had to, I knew I had a couple of things to do and I've got things to do this week, and it was just, you know (pause). I ended up blowing off a lot of work and taking a nap in the afternoon and my check finally came from my dad so I called him, and all he's asking about is, you know, 'How's your social life?' You know, it's like one of those you don't want J Date (sp?), you know it's like, 'well what am I, how am I supposed to pay for this?' He's like, 'oh I'll pay for J Date (sp?)' I'm like, 'no you don't understand'.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:03:40]
CLIENT: I mean what am I supposed to put on my profile, you know 'looking for a woman to buy me dinner'? You know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So (clears throat) I spoke to my landlord because I gave him a check for three months' rent, though only God knows how many I'm still behind. A bunch. And they're going to be taking one of my rooms because they're, they've got the first floor and then they've got a room upstairs and so they have to knock through one of the walls and take the room for one of their kids.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And while they're doing this they're going to give me a break in rent so that's kind of cool. Because they've been wanting to talk to me and I've been like, uhh what do they want to talk to me about?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I waited to talk to them until I could hand them the check.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And he's like, 'oh I don't, you know, I don't care about the time that I get paid just as long as I get paid.' You know. And so he was very cool about that.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:04:44]
CLIENT: The place is kind of a mess, I'm kind of embarrassed to have, you know, her come up and look around and figure out what she wants to do as far as, you know, because she's the one who's going to do it. You know. But (pause) I don't know, it's just a (pause) weird day. And then today, once again, I've just kind of blown off doing a lot of work because I have to pick up Ian at two-thirty. Which I kind of like now that I've got a, you know it's like before I would drop him off on Thursday mornings which was, at least I got to see Lucille and him, you know, for however brief a period of time it was. And now it's like I can pick him up, hang out with him, you know, when Lucille's home, you know, play with her, and then still see them like Friday at soccer. So I'm seeing them more (pause) which I guess is good. Lucille's being a lot more, you know, like I was chasing her at soccer on Friday and she was just laughing and laughing, and then when we were leaving I said, 'come give me a hug' and she stopped, turned around, and came and gave me a hug.
THERAPIST: That's good. Getting a little more love there. [00:06:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I always ask for a kiss and she gives me a kiss and it's like, you know I never used to kiss Ian (sp?). Sometimes I'd kiss him on the top of the head. I don't know if it's like a boy girl thing or (pause) if there's anything wrong with that or if Ian (sp?) even notices or (pause).
THERAPIST: I think you're okay.
CLIENT: You know I always thought it was weird to kiss my dad but not my mom, you know. I don't know why. (Pause) Played last night.
THERAPIST: Seems kind of lonely on Monday mornings.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well not just Monday mornings but— And I was wondering if that's like what usually is the cause of my Mondays but, you know, that might be part of it. You know it's just like I'll wake up and
THERAPIST: Not ready to face the week? [00:07:10]
CLIENT: there's no office to go in to. I think it's, you know, things are different now that when I go to the office I don't really see people. Well I kind of see people in the hallways but they don't, you know, (pause) and, I don't know. Maybe I need to add some more networking, you know like Thursday I see people at my pal's office and I so that takes care of (pause) that part of the week. (Pause, sighs) And soccer on Fridays. Ian (sp?) is going to start swimming on Tuesdays and Thursdays so my day to take him is Tuesdays
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:08:03]
CLIENT: so maybe there'll be parents that— And I never really connected with any of the parents, you know, who already go to school or the Y, you know, I just never really did. I kind of connect with some of the soccer parents but it's not like we're calling each other up and doing things or anything like that so, I don't know. Where Jess does, you know, a lot of it's around like play dates or whatnot but (pause) I don't know, I'm just miserable.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Well maybe you're also feeling a little more up to talking to the parents.
CLIENT: My parents?
THERAPIST: Oh no, the other parents like at swimming.
CLIENT: Oh. Maybe. I don't know. I did talk to, when I went to pick up Ian (sp?) last time, which is weird, you know, one of his good friend's parents, they're both really weird.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:09:12]
CLIENT: You know, like this forced conversation with her, and I was like, you know she didn't say anything, I had to (pause) initiate every—
THERAPIST: Right. Like kind of (inaudible at 00:09:23).
CLIENT: So, but that was just because it was so awkward. (Pause) And I wish I could kind of connect with them because they're Jewish, you know and it would be nice to (pause), you know I kind of thought Jess would help facilitate it a little bit more because she just jabs away with them in e-mails and (pause) the woman's a therapist, which I find hard to believe, you know. Because most therapists, I don't know about you, but they're just really nosy people.
THERAPIST: Nosy?
CLIENT: Nosy. (Therapist laughs) I used to walk dogs and you know a lot of people who were walking their dogs were nosy.
THERAPIST: I think a lot of people in general are.
CLIENT: Or therapists. They're just (therapist chuckles) talkative.
THERAPIST: Kind of like your mother.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) They upgraded to IO 6 (sp?) (pause). A bunch of my appointments just disappeared.
THERAPIST: Oh no. [00:10:30]
CLIENT: I was supposed to go meet with my psychiatrist yesterday
THERAPIST: Oh shit.
CLIENT: and I missed that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I'm not sure what happened. You know I'm supposed to meet with some guy from E&G;, and I don't know if it was today or when or, I sent him and e-mail this morning like hey, I lost a bunch of appointments. (Pause) But kind of sucks, not like I had a lot to lose but (pause). So now it's another week before I see her again. (Pause, clears throat) I seem to be tolerating the Prozac a little better.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Still have a little bit of nausea but not at much as I had.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Am I nosy?
CLIENT: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Am I nosy?
CLIENT: I don't know how you are outside of here.
THERAPIST: Yeah but inside of here? [00:11:32]
CLIENT: Sometimes. But that's kind of your job. "How does that make you feel? You got big plans for Yom Kippur? You going to fast?"
THERAPIST: I'm not very observant.
CLIENT: I know. My bad (both chuckle). (Pause) That's why I wonder if I ever did a dating service whether I would do match.com or Jdate.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I've only really ever dated one Jewish chick and she wasn't very Jewish, you know, it's not like we did Jewish things together. So I wonder, you know. (Pause) Like sometimes I feel a little (pause) I don't want to say guilty, that I don't do things, you know. But when I do do them, you know I feel like I'm missing out by not doing other things. You know, as when I do go to Passover (pause), you know and I was invited to Rosh Hashanah and I said no because I have practice. [00:12:57] You know so it's like I've got my priorities.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I didn't even end up going anyways last week. (Pause) My friend Springer is in town, she's the one who rented the apartment before I did.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And they're having like a get-together on Saturday and I realized 'oh I have soccer practice'. And it's not like I can really even, I can try and be there after soccer practice, but (pause) I've got the concert on Friday I'm going by myself
THERAPIST: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: which I'm kind of excited for. (Pause, clears throat) Saturday's the (pause), I don't know the number, but they're having a brew-off in the pub. A beer has to have rye in it. (Pause) I don't want to say it was a mistake but last time I brought beer to drink during, in between the tasting of the beers and I got pretty fucked up and someone had to drive me home. [00:14:33] (Pause) So I'm not going to be bringing anything to drink between the tasting of the beers. (Pause) (inaudible at 00:14:43) I was able to walk the next morning and get my bike where the pub was and, well I guess I have to take the bus. But I'm not very comfortable leaving my bike on the street.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause) So I don't know what to do about my loneliness, you know, that's practical.
THERAPIST: Well (pause)
CLIENT: Get another dog. But I feel kind of, I've got freedom because I don't have a dog, you know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause) And I kind of, you know, it's like (pause) really made me completely capable of doing any work that didn't have to be done yesterday, you know. Just kind of carrying through to today where it's like I know exactly, I'll do a couple titles and maybe some e-mails and that's it. [00:16:10] You know just—
THERAPIST: Well it also sounds like part of what was frustrating about talking to your dad is that (pause) he wanted to, I guess which he kind of often does, I haven't really thought about this, but he's often like pushing you to do things, or make changes, or do this, or do that rather than just kind of talking about how it's going, what's going on,
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: how you're doing, stuff like that. Which sounds like more what you would have wanted.
CLIENT: Yeah I know, he's kind of always been like that. My brother got that from him where my brother's always giving advice and saying I should do things.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think, you know, he has my best interests in mind and, but (pause) I don't know. Maybe that's why I am like I am, because I've fought it so I intentionally don't do things because he wants me to do them.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. I don't know, I guess what seems clear as you were talking about the conversation yesterday was that you were frustrated and upset that, you know, on the one hand you were on the phone with him but on the other hand it just, you know, was not the conversation that was going to make you feel any better. [00:17:31]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean maybe not even like you had to tell him anything in particular, but it just, you know, comes out.
CLIENT: Well I had to call and tell him I got the check and thank you for writing the check. Nothing came up about getting a car, which he has told me to do. My car made it out to the festival and back.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: without a hitch.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: I really ought to, just one more thing I don't want to do, you know. Maybe today I'll, if I can get my titles done a little on the early side, maybe I can take Ian to go (voices overlapping, inaudible at 00:18:21). He might like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah he would, what are you going to look at?
CLIENT: I think initially I'm going to look at the Subaru Outback. Though that's probably too much money. (Pause) I know that Subaru lot, they've got a 2005 with forty-five thousand miles on it
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:18:42]
CLIENT: for like thirteen thousand. So, I mean that's (pause) still (pause) a car that old that they're selling for more than fifty percent of its original value.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But it's in good shape, you know. I couldn't afford the payments on that, you know, more than I could afford, you know a brand new one. Unless my parents put money down. (Pause) I don't know. (Pause) Some guy contacted me through the website and wants me to help him out with a trust and selling his house, and goes through this sob story about how he has cancer and lost his job and can only afford a small retainer and pay me out of the proceeds of the house, and it's just like when's someone going to come by and say, 'okay here's your five thousand dollar retainer get to work', you know? It just doesn't seem to happen for me. [00:20:01]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Tomorrow I really have to get into the office and just do some work, get caught up on things, there's certain things I need to deal with. Just not into doing them today. (Pause) It's not even like I've got fun things to do, it's like I sit around and just watch the news over and over again. You know cable news repeats every half hour or so. So I have to watch the same shit over and over again. I don't want to say that I haven't been in a rut, but I'm definitely in a rut now. Just (pause) supposed to, I thought I was going to have a closing tomorrow, but I called my loan officer yesterday and he never called me back. (Pause) It's one of those closings where I'm going to have to sign the wife and the husband separately. [00:21:17] (Pause) So extra effort for the same money.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Something happened that, right there, like your mood seemed to dip. I think it was when you brought up the guy who called and gave you the sob story. (Pause) Like, you seem more, kind of, flat and down than you seemed two minutes ago.
CLIENT: Oh no, it's like, you know, there's business coming in but it's just shit, you know?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It's like I can't get (pause) decent business, you know. (Pause) I e-mailed the guy back, I never heard from him. (Pause) He's unemployed so I don't know what.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:22:15]
CLIENT: (Pause) My motivation's pretty low. Scale of one to ten it's about a two. (Pause) Maybe a three.
THERAPIST: That's pretty low.
CLIENT: And I don't know why, I don't know if it's because I'm just (pause), I don't even know why. I'm just feeling a little tired. I don't know.
THERAPIST: (Pause) It's not like feeling sad or lonely, it's just (pause) feeling kind of the hell out of you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah that's what happened last week too I think.
CLIENT: It just wears me down.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think later in the week maybe you were doing a little better last week? Then the weekend's better because you're kind of doing stuff and seeing people and having a good time.
C LIENT: Well I think that's what happens, I get to Thursday and I have E&G; or—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: though I hadn't, I was in court
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:23:14]
CLIENT: last week. But, you know, Friday I have soccer and I was looking forward to the festival. (Pause) And this weekend I'm looking forward to a concert and the brew-off. (Pause) I don't know. (Pause) Just waking up so (inaudible at 00:23:52) too. So it's like I wake up in the morning and feel, it's like if I didn't have to get here I would have just, you know, laid on the couch and got up every five minutes to blow my nose and puke. That's what I did yesterday. (Pause) It's not even puking it's like regurgitating snot. (Pause) I know that's very appealing for you. (Pause) That's probably the reason you didn't become a medical doctor, because you didn't want to have to deal with regurgitating snot. (Therapist chuckles) [00:24:30]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Maybe that is one of the reasons I became a psychologist, so I can deal with hearing about regurgitating snot.
CLIENT: (Pause) It seems like all the people I hang out with are couples, you know. It's like (pause) everyone, all their friends,
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices, inaudible at 00:25:09) couples.
THERAPIST: How many people— Oh go ahead, go ahead.
CLIENT: Well there was (pause) three different, two couples and then a woman who is in a relationship, (pause) engaged. (Pause) But is having (pause) friction with her partner. But she's bi-sexual so I thought I had a chance, you know. [00:25:39] (Pause) But it just seems like I don't even have any opportunities to, you know, (pause) find women to get rejected by. (Pause, client sighs).
THERAPIST: Well and I guess partly for just not meeting people and partly for (pause) not having the money to go out much?
CLIENT: (Pause) Maybe that's kind of part of why, you know my dad had suggested, you know, suggested sort of demanded that I join a temple.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: But I'm like not, that would be a situation where, you know, (pause) they force women upon you.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:26:54]
CLIENT: Ohh, there's a new bachelor in the temple. (Pause) 'Sadie Feinstein would be a perfect match!' (Pause) You know. (Pause) They wouldn't be able to tolerate me, single.
THERAPIST: A lot of (inaudible at 00:27:21).
CLIENT: (Pause, exhales) I just feel like everything I have, you know that's another thing that I just have to do alone, you know, it's like (pause) I don't know. Like I just don't know how one joins a temple.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Do you want to join a temple? [00:27:58]
CLIENT: Not really. You know part of me does, part of me doesn't. You know, I think it'd be good for business,
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, right.
CLIENT: socially, and you know.
THERAPIST: (Pause, client sighs) What's the downside?
CLIENT: Going to temple. (Pause) I find it kind of boring.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (Pause) Well you wouldn't necessarily have to go to services.
CLIENT: (Pause) I'd have to find a temple that has active, you know, like men's club and different activities you know. (Pause) It's like my friend invited me to, you know, come to her temple but you know that's like in another district, you know, it's—
THERAPIST: Right. [00:29:08]
CLIENT: Doesn't do me any good. (Pause) I Googled one temple in my area that seemed okay. But (pause), I don't know. Just don't know how one goes about looking for a temple.
THERAPIST: (Pause) I don't know, you can (pause), I'm sure they probably have different kinds of events for potential new members.
CLIENT: There was the one, the one in this area, you know, and (pause) I was disappointed there wasn't any follow through with it, you know it's like they put me on their e-mail list, which I'm still on. And (pause), but there was not (pause) no one followed up to call, you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:30:17]
CLIENT: Which, you know that's like what we're supposed to do at E&G;, we're supposed to, you know if someone comes in busy you follow up and call people and they're very impressed by that, they really want, you know. So I thought that was kind of, I don't know. Plus it was, just doesn't seem like a good fit, you know.
THERAPIST: (Pause) What was wrong with it? Why didn't you like the fit?
CLIENT: It just, you know, was a lot of different age groups and they were kind of small. They had been struggling and kind of survived and, I don't know just (pause) it's hard to describe. Just didn't feel comfortable, at home, or not sure how many of the couples were young couples, you know. [00:31:44]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (Pause) And also it's just like one more thing that I have to do.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Yeah. One more thing you have to get motivated for.
CLIENT: (Pause) Can't bring myself to do stuff. But I really should clean my apartment because my landlord is coming in, you know.
THERAPIST: (Pause) I wonder if it would help to plan stuff for like Monday night? Or, you know, make sure you have meal planning, whatever you need to make for lunch on Monday? Is that something that would help? [00:32:48]
CLIENT: That's what I, you know, should be doing in E&G; is meeting people, you know, one to one. (Pause) Once I'm not longer president I'm going to try and do more of that kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess I'm saying on Monday specifically, like give you something to look forward to a little bit or maybe it would help get you moving?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah my schedule for Monday I get up and go. (Pause, client yawns) [00:34:00] Words With Friends. (Pause, client yawns) I don't know why I'm so tired. (Pause) It's like I didn't, I just went and had one beer after practice and then went home. I left at like ten o'clock so I was home at like ten-thirty.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (Pause) Kind of just went to bed but like eleven-thirty. (Pause) I have been just, you know, (pause) by like seven o'clock just had to get up, but today wasn't like that, you know.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:35:08]
CLIENT: Probably tired from the bike ride and playing.
THERAPIST: Well maybe you're tired from feeling down yesterday too?
CLIENT: Maybe. (Pause) I don't know what to do, you know. That's probably the most depressing thing of all, is just (pause) I feel trapped and I don't know how to get out, you know. [00:36:16]
THERAPIST: (Pause) What if you're doing most of the right things?
CLIENT: (Pause) They don't seem to be working, you know. I feel like I should be doing something, you know, drastic. You know, moving or, I don't know. (Pause) It's not like I can just pick up and move because my kids are here.
THERAPIST: I mean maybe—
CLIENT: (Pause) Can't really just find a new job.
THERAPIST: (Pause) No but you're getting more, you said last time you're getting more of the landlord/tenant stuff, there's some things that are picking up, and you've certainly been quite a bit more social I think over the last few months than you've been before that. I'm not saying things are where you want them, but, I mean you're (pause) thinking about dating, which you (pause) hadn't been doing. [00:37:29]
CLIENT: (Pause) All it does it torture me. (Pause) Walk around the neighborhood (inaudible at 00:37:44) at college girls. It's torture. (Pause) And all women my age are lesbians. (Pause) It's kind of surprising that I got called back by my loan officer yesterday. (Pause) Shocking. [00:38:37]
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: Though we (voices overlapping, inaudible at 00:38:41) Wednesday right?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Voices overlapping, inaudible at 00:38:44) tomorrow, but probably not.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Maybe we still are, but—
THERAPIST: Do you mind if we finish up for now and then go a little over on Friday? I think I was running ten minutes late.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Thanks for being (inaudible at 00:39:03), sorry I'll try to be better.
CLIENT: I'm used to it. (Pause) We all have things to work on. (Pause) Well I never know what to say, but Happy Yom Kippur.
THERAPIST: Thanks, you too.
END TRANSCRIPT
