TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: My voice. 
THERAPIST: I don't like to run out of batteries. 
CLIENT: No, I understand. That and it is one of the more battery [inaudible 00:19] things; not huge. Not like watching movies or anything like that, but is more better intensive than...
THERAPIST: Right. Greeting people. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Gosh. So after I left, I just went and slept for like 18—not really 18; probably 15 hours, 14 hours—something like that. I don't really truly think that I should actually be that tired. I do have a lot of pain and stuff like that, but this is starting to seem a little bit ridiculous. So I'm sort of in the process, again—ever so often I start doing this as my going to see the doctors to figure out what it is and they're all kind of like, well; it's either arthritis or lose weight. But I don't know.
[01:18]
I'm feeling annoyed enough by it at this point right now, that I kind of want to figure out what it is. But I don't really know why I bothered trying to do the same thing over and over again hoping for different results. But maybe this time they'll figure it out. I don't know.
I don't really think it's entirely depression because when I'm sleeping I usually have dreams that are not really disturbing to me, but stressful. So like I'm not really doing it to...it's not like a tranquil time to escape the rest of my life, you know. 
THERAPIST: I'm not arguing that it is depression, but I think when people who are depressed sleep more, they don't necessarily find it a respite or...
CLIENT: Okay, fair enough.
THERAPIST: Or have pleasant dreams or things like that.
CLIENT: Well yeah, just thinking of it in terms of, "Oh, I want to sleep because I don't want to deal with my reality right now." 
THERAPIST: Right, right.
CLIENT: Which I have done that before, but not...
THERAPIST: Yeah, but it doesn't feel that way. 
[02:35]
CLIENT: I'm just exhausted all the time.
THERAPIST: Physically exhausted.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, again, I mean feeling really worn out can be a symptom of depression aside from wanting to sleep to kind of get away from things.
CLIENT: Okay, fair enough.
THERAPIST: But you've got lots of other health stuff, so I...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's very complicated. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess if I were going to speculate, I do imagine there is a depressive aspect that contributes. 
[03:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: The reasons I think so are these. You tell me you've been lower in the last few weeks.
CLIENT: Yeah, I sleep a lot in general though.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I feel like I'm sleeping my entire life away.
THERAPIST: Especially on Tuesday nights right.
CLIENT: Yeah, usually. Wednesday, actually. It's Tuesday all the way through Wednesday is when most...except for this week because of my schedule being different. Usually, I spend most of the day Wednesday sleeping. 
THERAPIST: Also, I think you may have been on your version of an angry rant for part of yesterday here.
CLIENT: A little bit, yeah. 
[04:27]
THERAPIST: Which is not a jump around and throw things sort of affair.
CLIENT: Not usually.
THERAPIST: But you were frustrated.
CLIENT: Frustrated, yeah. 
THERAPIST: Something in your life, like, cannot be about you and what you'd want, including lots of stuff with Dave.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And your health. And you sounded pretty frustrated about that. And sometimes—I guess I would say frustrated and also there can be a kind of a muted quality when you're frustrated like that. I mean you tend so much not to want to put things on other people. 
CLIENT: Yes and no. I go through—I'm a person of, unfortunately, a person of extremes sometimes and so there will be moments where I will totally be more aggressive or even necessarily overstepping my bounds in terms of blaming other people; that kind of thing. 
THERAPIST: Oh. It might not be that.
[05:47]
CLIENT: It depends. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's very common; it will happen, you know. That's what...I have gotten, like I said, it will happen, but not usually with people I care about much, you know. It's usually like a rant about like customers or like something that is completely uncontrollable. 
THERAPIST: So, I guess...so those things; so in order to process the anger...maybe a little bit of the mutedness of it can sometimes be linked to being sleepy. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or feeling exhausted. But, you know, it can be...
CLIENT: It can be a lot of different things. I'm not necessarily saying it's one thing or another. I'm pretty open-minded about it. I'm just sick of having to have my life planned around sleeping. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's really boring.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[07:30]
CLIENT: As much as I rant about how much if my husband could give back 10 percent of the time he uses acting out to do something productive, how successful his life would be—if I could get back 10 percent of the time back that I sleep over 10 hours. I'm not talking 10 percent over a fraction over 10 hours in a day, how much more time and everything I'd have to, you know. I will have periods in my life where I don't sleep much. It's sort of...I'm very sensitive about this. It's usually; unfortunately, I've sort of...there is a phrase that is used by certain people and I've used it myself, talking about hacking your life, that kind of thing. 
Unfortunately, I've spent so much time refining my own like wake/sleep cycles that it's kind of strange unless I'm at a place where the climate is completely different. There are periods of time in the year where I cannot sleep because it is traditionally, for more than ten years of my life; it's a period of time where I cannot sleep because I can't sleep. Like finals week; that kind of stuff. I already know that like that's the time of year where it is and I don't have a final, but I really can't; I really can't sleep that much. And it's kind of weird about that kind of stuff because I can't control it, so I've just sort of decided that's sort of what I did. 
THERAPIST: That like stays with you?
[08:57]
CLIENT: Yeah. When I was in Kentucky, it wasn't so much like that because I didn't have the cold weather to kick in for the...like there are a lot of really subtle cues that I've done. Like change my cycle. But the thing is that like I mean I did that between 1993 and 2002-ish off and on. So I mean it's a long time. Yeah, so I mean; it's a long time to do that off and on. I've taken classes where I've had to do that. 
There is often like, because I have done consulting for academia, I need to get something in by the time that the professors are gone; that kind of stuff. So I've actually had that problem before. It's kind of interesting how much I've conditioned my life and my mind and my body to do things the way that I want them to such that when I cannot do that, I get very angry. When I cannot figure out a way to make it behave the way I want it to, it makes me frustrated, you know. And so...and that's pretty much what I was speaking with the phenomenon is because I knew that I needed not to sleep during those periods of time in my life. And I have like, you know, I could operate on very little sleep for weeks at a time if I have those sorts of things.
[10:23]
THERAPIST: More so than most people?
CLIENT: Well?
THERAPIST: In other words, operate better on less sleep. 
CLIENT: No, not operating better. There's a period of time right around 1998 where I had like massive memory loss because I was sleeping less than an hour a night. But it really wasn't at night; I was doing it during the day. That way I wouldn't actually consider myself going to sleep for the night. Like I had to. I mean I had a lot of information. I was doing summer qualification exams. I had a lot of information to do at a very small amount of time to memorize. 
THERAPIST: What were you doing?
CLIENT: I was trying to do a master's qualification exam, which is more or less kind of like a dissertation defense.
THERAPIST: Yeah, like qualifying exam before you start a new project?
CLIENT: Yeah, this was actually specifically for a very [inaudible 11:13] where it wasn't just like you sit down; it was not a sit exam. It was you, piece of chalk, a blackboard, and like a bunch of people asking you questions. 
THERAPIST: And what field is this?
CLIENT: Research. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And so, although my background is in [inaudible], you get the occasional bastard that will ask you things that have nothing to do with what your field is in because they want to make sure that you have the basic skills to do this. And so then you get like—and this is very common—you get some jerk who decides that they really want you to like take Maxwell's Law and like derive it in to its, like literally towards its first principles. So you spend a lot of time preparing for this so that you know what you're doing so that when they throw this at you, you can think of what you're knowing. And so I spend a lot of time like pre...yeah. Memorizing things that I did not need to know after that event.
THERAPIST: Great.
[12:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. So, and it's not as bad anymore, but there was definitely, at that point in time, the department I had was stacked with a lot of people who had a lot of strange beliefs that they needed to make sure this was a hazing process. So yeah. 
After that point, I have like whole slots of time that I can't remember because I was memorizing all of this ridiculousness, you know. Like noise to signal ratio; stuff that I don't do anything with, you know. 
I mean there are periods of time where people do this. I consider it to be like some people have these periods of time where they're sleep deprived because their children are crying at night. I had a period of time in my life where, you know, instead of having a child, I had a career that I was trying to...a path that I was trying to go through and I had a lot to memorize. So that was really a lot to have to know. 
But whenever I have things in my life that are about myself or about my life that are undesirable, I really try very hard to try and shape them so that they can be the way, at least, somewhat less bad. And so when I can't do it, I run in to a lot of frustration because I have been successful in my life.
[13:44]
THERAPIST: Yeah, passivity is not your thing.
CLIENT: No. And so if you knew, more so than that, you know, it's because of the fact that I have been able to get things to work in a way that I wouldn't normally expect them to. I sort of have high expectations for myself that if I can't [inaudible 14:08] it's somewhat self defeating, like as in like, "Oh my God, what in the world is wrong with me?" Why can't I figure this...how to make this work? That kind of thing. So yeah. 
[14:29]
That's part of the frustration. I don't really feel like it's a perfectionism thing. I don't really; I'm not looking for perfection in my life. I'm just looking to minimize; like in terms of the...like I'm just looking to make minimalize the amount of discomfort/unpleasantness in my life. I don't want my life to be perfect. I don't really care that much. I mean it would be nice, but I would like to the unpleasant effects minimalized, you know. And so that's...maybe it's different. I don't know. But to me, I really feel like it's a very distinctly different aspect of it, then saying, "Oh, I want everything to be perfect." Who wants to be? No, I'm just looking to try and, you know, make sure that things are not as bad as they could be.
And of course because I'm talking a lot because I can't think of any specific instances of this, but I'm certain that there are that kind of thing. Oh yeah, yeah. I can think of academic ones where there were definitely periods of time during the day that if I had to go see somebody that their mood was better. 
Like I knew that like if I got somebody like early in the day, their mood would be better than later in the day; that kind of thing. Or minimizing like if I know that something's happening and someone's, you know; it's just easier that way, you know. But yeah. 
[16:26]
And so like I said, when I have these things when I have to sleep or I have to do this or I have to do that, it's really frustrating. It's funny because I write so little these days with a pen and paper anymore that I was addressing something...I do write, but I guess there is just also fatigue too. I've always said that the other surgery that I had on my arm was significantly fixed the problems I was having with it; not so much. Addressing a letter was almost too much to have to write with my hand. I mean it was not too bad, but it was definitely...I could definitely feel it. 
It's not so much that I've...the surgery did help, but I think it's also the fact that, you know, I've stopped having to write with a pen and a paper. So that was something that for a very very long time gave me a lot of grief is the fact that I would have to write things and they would be very painful after a while. And I've actually walked away from essays or something like that because...
THERAPIST: Writing too much.
CLIENT: Yeah. So computers are making things better somewhat, but you know, it's...the fine motor control is not where it could be anymore and if I do it for too long, I end up paying the price because of basically the swelling and that kind of stuff, and the pain, and I guess part of the thing that just really makes me frustrated is the fact that when I do try and push my boundaries, a lot of times I don't realize it until much later and then I have this like, "Okay, so, I've decided that I want to...God only knows reason I said I want to salvage something myself." Instead of just buying a new radio. And then three days later I'm still having trouble picking up a toothbrush, you know. That's the reminder, really. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[18:48]
At the time of I'm feeling great. I'm like you know what, I'm still useful. I can do this and then like once the whole thing gets...once the inflammation starts that's when I start hating myself. I'm like why in the world did I really want to do this in the first place? Well, I was trying to make myself feel better, but you know, because I mean yes it would be nice to be able to, you know, whatever. But it's...I like doing things with my hands. I really do. I like building things. I like taking things apart. I don't do as much; I don't do very much at all with it at my job. I do a little bit, but not that much. But the few times that I do a year, like maybe a dozen or so times a year I do it myself, that's where I notice that things; that things are not what they could be. 
And I still may do certain things. Like I can no longer do ceiling fans. Not that that's a big deal, but every time I move in to a place I always end up putting a ceiling fan in. I cannot hold up...it's already hard enough. You have to hold up a fan while you're reconnecting things; that kind of stuff. I can't do that. I've trained my husband how to do it. And for the most part, he's pretty good. 
I have a sense of accomplishment in that I've taken somebody who knew exactly zero about wiring anything and now as long as I give him some reminders—because he doesn't do it all the time and he doesn't actually like have the background knowledge to understand why like neutral and ground are not the same thing, you know, that kind of stuff—yeah, a refresher. But he's pretty good at that kind of stuff. So I don't really need to be doing that kind of stuff. I used to really get a big kick out of that kind of stuff. I loved, loved doing home automation. I cannot do it anymore. I cannot build things with small parts. And that's sort of something that makes me very sad, you know. 
[20:46]
I've looked into a lot of assistive things, but you know what; honestly, there will never be the kind of assistive technology to so much of this kind of stuff is really; it has to be sensory based. I cannot; like, you know—knowing if something is on the right. Like if the pulley is on the right track, you feel it by the way you're pulling it. You can tell whether that's running smoothly or not. I cannot, actually, first of all, teach somebody so well but also not so much, you know; yeah, if at some point I could do robotics or something like that, I don't think—I think I need the feedback loop for. So so much of it is slightly intangible and I really miss it, you know.
It's slightly destructive that occasionally I'll do something. But I really feel like the sense of accomplishment I have of, yeah, I didn't have to buy a new air conditioner. I just took it apart and got the compressor to go, to short up and now I don't need that. That really makes me feel really good, you know. Especially because before I started, I knew nothing about like air conditioners, you know, or something like that. So it's kind of a...it's no longer permanent damage that I'm doing—which I think is good. 
[22:26]
Before, you know, doing this kind of stuff I had to be very careful because I knew that like as soon as like if I basically snapped a tendon that—and when I did, I did do it, but it wasn't for a reuse. Once the tendon was ruptured, that I'd have an arm that sort of hung there. So yeah. But now that I have a new tendon that is not mine, it is, you know, I don't have to worry about that so much. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I don't know. Sort of I need to do things with my hands. I need to create things. Even though I can't do them that well, it's really really satisfying. I mean I've done crafty things too, but again, that's against my motor skills, you know. As much as I get a big kick out of designing things, part of the reason why when I would do certain things the way I did was the fact that there was a mechanics to it that was kind of stupid, but like even like...I would have certain things about them that were less digital, more physical about them that would really be satisfying for it. And so that's kind of a...it's a hard thing, you know.
[24:06] 
THERAPIST: I would think it's devastating.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's who I am really. Dave loves it when I do it too because he basically sees...I mean occasionally I get like this amusing bravado in which I'm like, okay, so everybody who's around step up and watch and I will show you how to properly discharge a catheter grading tube, you know; something like that. I get kind of silly about that kind of thing. But I get a kick out of it. It's not for the attention, though I do occasionally if there is an audience, I will have a certain amount of showmanship when something is, especially when it's very dramatic looking like that. But if I'm by myself, I get the same amount of satisfaction, you know, for the most part. 
But yeah, he actually really likes it when I build and create things because he says that basically that he likes the mood that I'm in and the personality that I am. So he's very very like, especially with certain things like that. Like I did a lot of stop action movies, which is extremely hard on my hands because fine tuning it involves for the video editing, but that is something that is less really physical, but yet kind of simulated, but still really really hard on the hands because you spend so much time going back and forth over like the amount of frames per second. 
As much as I give him feedback about when he has behaviors that I really like. You know he does occasionally tell me that kind of stuff too. We're pretty open about that kind of stuff. 
[26:00]
I just feel like a lot of it I miss, you know, and that's part of the biggest reason why I don't do the things that I do anymore and that's partially due to the fact that...and I'm not really...it's weird because I spend a lot of time thinking about this because I try to teach other people things. I don't really think that as much as I talk about the act of doing things, I'm not really a kinesthetic learner. I mean you can sit me in front of a TV and put me in front of something and I can learn it pretty well. Like I learn most of my inner...like most of my basic physics I learned from watching the mechanical universe, which is basically all it is it's a video tape of Caltech's freshman...their freshman physic's class.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mechanics and...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like rolling a ball down an incline plane and that kind of thing. You know, that stuff. I mean it was just okay, but I sat there and watched it and picked up on that kind of stuff, you know. 
[27:05]
So it's not even so much like I have to be doing to learn it, but I do really...I do get energy from doing that and on some level, like I feel like when I teach I do a better job by doing that; by actively doing things. 
Like for example, not my real nephew, but Dave's best friend's Rowland, his little...his son Bernard who I cannot believe he is going to come visit us next summer; 15. I remember when he was born. This is killing me. But when he was six, they made these things. I don't know if they still do, but they're called logic blocks and they are made to look like Legos, but they on top of them they have gates. So like one's a Nan gate, one's an Ore gate, and so you couldn't like; literally, they're like a big Lego thing that's actually a bread board and so you can stack things together to make a circuit. So it's like, okay; so we're going to make due like a half attar; or for him, it was more like let's put together something so that when you press this button, and light this light, this light will light up. It's a really great thing. I don't know if they still make them or not.
THERAPIST: I haven't seen them. 
CLIENT: It's really cool. And I really liked it because when I was teaching him about this, it was really a really good, without like, because at that age, teaching a kid on a bread board. I'm like okay, so this is the resistor, not so much. But this was like such a...I felt like it was really easy to teach and do; that quite frankly if Bernard went to sleep, I probably would have sat there and played with it myself, which is sad. But you know, I did buy it for him, so. But that kind of stuff, it really is...I really feel like physical implementations are really helpful for me. So I spend a lot of time thinking about that kind of stuff. 
[28:51]
And so, I don't know. It's kind of a weird thing, like I said. Because I teach, I spend a lot of time being taught by Microsoft about different types of learning styles and acquisition specifically of adult learning laws. But I don't really feel like I fit in any of them. That's always been sort of weird. I mean, to me; okay, Debra Pre...like pre...in-laws deciding to like screw up her mind with like...that's normal. I'm okay. I never fit into anything. Now it's like, am I just misunderstanding who I am? So this is like understanding and seeing the dichotomy of who I was before. I was like constantly being told I'm a terrible person and kind of screwed up versus now. 
But now when I look at this I think to myself, this is kind of strange that I don't fit in to any of these models at all, you know. I'm not really distinctly...I don't really deal with things kinesthetically. I don't really...it's not specifically visually. It's very much a unique blend of things. And so, I don't know. I think about this kind of stuff a lot...probably over much; about my own models of how I learn. I don't know.
[30:10]
But in terms of like, in terms of like talking about hacking one's mind and such like that, I mean I have; if I need to learn something, I have like a whole series of things I do to absorb information like it's important. Taking notes then transcribing the notes. I have special pencil leads because I can't hold like, use like regular pencil lead when I write. Like most pencil lead is a half millimeter. I have whole; it's hard to find whole millimeter lead. It comes from Germany. I have whole millimeter lead so that I can be able to re-write and get everything exactly the way it should be, and I keep transcribing it until it's there. 
I've got whole series of things, but you know what; it works. It really works. And you know I mean I really need to know it. I can do things that most people can't remember. Like I can still integrate by parts. Heck [inaudible 31:08] doing anything for me now in my life, but I can still do it.
THERAPIST: You can still do what?
CLIENT: Integrate by parts.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: That's not going to do much with helping my taxes or like going to the grocery store, but...
THERAPIST: Nobody's going to stop you on the street and ask you to integrate by parts?
CLIENT: No, well, I used to go to some really great parties where occasionally it would be one of those like if you can't do this, then you must drink.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I miss that. And I'm sure they have those around here still.
THERAPIST: I would imagine if you go to the right neighborhood.
[31:38] 
CLIENT: Yeah. I miss that. Actually that was kind of fun because usually I would be the person who didn't have to drink, because I'm very good at it. But yeah, you know. I don't know. I just need to figure out...
THERAPIST: So much of this is about things you miss and about...
CLIENT: A lot of them I have no control over at all though. 
THERAPIST: The way that you still can feel organized and sort of strategic and...
CLIENT: And smart. 
THERAPIST: Smart? Being smart. 
CLIENT: A little smart. Yeah, you know. Not smart as much as intelligent, if that makes sense. Feeling like when presented with something that I haven't seen before, being able to figure out the solution. That is acquiring, you know, my problem solving and feeling like I still can do that kind of stuff. That's what I really mean.
[32:52]
Yeah, a strange analogy is it's not that it's not right, but I was doing like somebody who's married or like sort of still wants to feel attractive and like kind of had it in a way. I can still do that. Even physically like that.
THERAPIST: Sure, sure.
Yeah, yeah, it's even more so with my brain. So. And it was actually heightened by that because not only did my husband, but I had made friends who used to joke around about me being a trophy wife in a different way. You know, being the person who like, look at who I married. She can bake and she can build things. And check out what she can...you know what I mean? That was a different type of trophy wife. It was sort of...I'm still super proud of that, you know.
THERAPIST: Like domestic trophy and math team trophy?
CLIENT: Yeah. But I would usually talk about like domestic things in terms of like; well it's not option of the heart. The reason why this isn't working is because you have to realize that you need to make sure that, you know, because this has so much acid in it, you need to have; you may have something that has alkaline and that's why we add milk to this. And we talk about that stuff like, you know. That's apparently hip now. I think I just told you that I watched an entire season of Master Chef.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Apparently, by the way, what they call it? Something cooking, but yes, more or less, doing that kind of thing of okay we're going to have these kind of understanding the way chemically things work. That's apparently very cool and hip right now. I'm not really sure why because it's always been that way, you know. That's why you don't put anything but tomatoes in the middle of a bowl when you cook it. I mean these are not new things, but apparently that's cool and hip now to know that kind of stuff.
[35:09] 
The university teaches a whole class on the science of cooking.
THERAPIST: Is that right?
CLIENT: Yep. So, but so much of this is really kind of like a showing that I can see the big picture. It's not even just domestic. Like wow, you know; haven't you ever really thought about the fact that all of these things have a bigger like interconnection as to why you can do this and you can do that? 
Finding the...have you ever watched Connections? 
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Okay. A TV show that basically shows how like why the like...the discovery of magnetism led to like the B-52 Bomber or something like that.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. 
[36:04]
CLIENT: I really am one of those people who that likes to discover those things on my own, notice these things, read about them, be able to tell people that this—and this is part of my teaching; what makes it really successful—but it's also really, you know; it's part of something that I'm just naturally good at seeing relationships between other things, which leads to that whole idea of when presented with this problem that I've never seen before, how to figure it out; how to make it work. It's like well, this is an awful lot like this so why can't I, you know, why can't we do it this way? And usually it works.
So to me, it's actually seeing the bigger picture of why it is that I could do these things, you know. So it's actually kind of above and beyond that, you know, the trophy wife thing. But you know, part of it is getting the attention, but really most of it is because I've lived in periods of time where I really saw nobody. When I lived in Lexington, I saw nobody except for people at the office. I didn't care.
THERAPIST: [inaudible 37:19] and effective and engaged with the world.
CLIENT: I'm my own worst critic, but sometimes I'm my own most, you know, my own best cheerleader, best supporter, you know. I mean I've got a few people in my life that when I tell them how excited I am about it that I really care about something, but really, it's the knowledge for my own basis. And I don't know; just it is what it is. But I'm really sad because I feel like so much of it is something I cannot do anymore. And so it is very hard.
[38:02]
Fondly and exuberantly remembering, in part, could have...so nice, but in part because it so different now.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Much like people who get [inaudible 38:22] out of knitting. It's not because they're thinking they're saving money on sweaters because they aren't. It's just the act of making something. That's a lot of what it is for me, you know. It's the act of doing something myself. And it is devastating for me right now not to be able to do certain things. Some of them I'm okay with, but I think it's that they're only okay as long as I have something else, you know. But it's really; it's hard because I can't, you know. I'm sick of talking about what I can't do anymore. I really am; not just in here, but in life. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I don't know. I just wish it were different I guess. I'm angry because I let myself believe that it might not always be that way, you know.
THERAPIST: Because then you think things are getting better?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was not like a delusion of my own. It is partially due to people in the medical field; personally people in, you know, that should know better but didn't; but misled me. But you know what, in the end of it, I'm not mad at them. I'm the one that decided to believe it, you know. 
[40:18]
It is really hard when I know that I have a physical instantiation of my body failing me to feel and when I feel like everything—sometimes my intellect; my everything is failing me, you know, but it's not like when you physically can point to something and know that it is. It becomes a lot more symbolic, you know. 
It is a much bigger pain for me to travel now, you know, for lots of reasons, one of which is it's fabulous to try to go through screening when you have to tell people that you have screws in you. And also don't forget I've got a whole bunch of sharps. That's fabulous trying to go through that. And I also have all this stuff that needs to be refrigerated that goes along with...you know, it becomes like a...like; I should just be grateful that I'm not as bad off as other people are and that I can do these things occasionally. But you know what, I'm sick of doing that self talk thing for a long time. Just be grateful; so the person doesn't have shoes being grateful for the person who doesn't have feet kind of thing. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: I mean I still do it, but you know what, I'm sick of having to be like this. It's a pain in the ass. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's not really how you feel, or it's not...
CLIENT: Day to day, hour to hour it's a different story. Like I feel differently about it based upon how recently the repercussions of what I've had to deal with is recently...dealing with how much hassle I've had to deal with recently, I will have different opinions on it. 
[42:24]
If I've just gone through a security screening, not so much. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Just like, you know, lamenting about, "Oh, I can't do all this travel." I've done a lot. You know I've got a really fabulous life and stories and collections of things. Why can't I just be satisfied with what I had? You know. I traveled more in my 20's than many people do in their lifetime, you know. I traveled more before the age of 10 possibly before most people do in their lifetime. But why am I so...I feel like a huge brat, you know. 
THERAPIST: Like entitled? 
CLIENT: A little bit, you know. Being a brat about the fact that I can't do certain things, you know. I can feel very frustrated and angry. And maybe it isn't so bratty, but to me I feel like that. 
THERAPIST: Well you always feel like you should be able to deal with it or put up with it or find a positive aspect to it, or things like that. 
CLIENT: Part of me...let me make sure this isn't like anything vaguely important. 
THERAPIST: We have to stop anyway. Okay, great. Perfect.
CLIENT: And I just, you know, not too many people lament about not being able to, you know, go roam around the ruins of Troy, you know. That sounds awfully like first world problems-esque. Because I really don't have the physical like capabilities of doing that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I feel bad about it. Okie dokie. I will see you on Monday; not Monday, Tuesday?
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
END TRANSCRIPT
