TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: (Audio break) ...into the lobby. I knew I should go into the fourth floor before. So, gee, I hardly know where to begin. 


COUNSELOR: So we'll start.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Can I talk to you first about what's going to happen?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: I think I told you that I'm probably going to be leaving the first week in July, and then I'm just not sure after that. I mean I really - I just can't decide about it yet, what I'm going to do about the institute forming. In any case, I guess they're forming at the beginning of winter so you can talk to them and see if you can get on the waiting list for that. 


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: Like that may be possible for you to do. And it seems pretty unlikely that I'll be doing anything this fall.


PATIENT: Well, the only thing that I'm concerned about really is like finishing this, which I'm obviously not going to be able to do with you and I really - I don't know how I'm going to find it, starting out with someone else. I try to really look at it optimistically but I just - it's like I don't know if I could and I really - I don't know how far I am from finishing, but I'm not really concerned about that, because I don't really know about myself. So I really don't know what to do. But if I just would like terminate when you leave, that would end it with the program here. [2:45]


COUNSELOR: I think a way is that you could put your name back on the waiting list. As we're talking, I feel sort of bad about not finishing out the contract. And see the reason I'm stopping at the beginning of the summer is so I can work on my dissertation, and get everything going, but it's also because I'm going to be going away for that time and [that's when they took this break] (ph).


PATIENT: See, this is sort of what I thought. Of course like you don't really know if you're going to connect yourself with this institute, but I sort of thought like terminating this and getting off of this program and then trying to line something up for the fall when you'll come back, because it won't be that many weeks. And I feel that I would rather do that than to just be jumping from you to someone else, and then if I were to get into the institute that would be a third person and I just - 


COUNSELOR: Oh yeah, well, if you change from me to somebody else it would be the person you'd stay with.


PATIENT: Oh, I wouldn't  - 


COUNSELOR: So it wouldn't be two people.


PATIENT: Well, even so, I'm happy with my relationship to you and with you and I would prefer to leave it that way if it's at all possible. [4:07]


COUNSELOR: Well, what I'm feeling right now that would be okay with me is if we could definitely [be on] (ph) finishing out our 20 sessions, which would mean I guess going until that first week in May and then starting up again at the end of August. I think that would be all right with me. Oh, I've been trying to arrange my time commitment to you, but I have - but it feels right to me to do that, to finish up the 20 sessions.


PATIENT: Okay, fine. So why don't we do that? 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Well, it was an interesting six weeks. I had to find within how long it's been. It was just so weird, because I just had so much time to think about things and I just - like when I first got sick I really got wrapped up in doing things that I'd been putting off, like writing letters and finishing little projects that I could do when I was sitting down, but then I just really became bored with everything and really became awfully depressed to the point that I was just crying at the drop of a hat and I just seemed to be losing control of myself. 


And in the beginning it was sort of like I thought that maybe some of this would bring my feelings towards Charlie to better them, and in some respects it did, but in many ways it really brought light onto things that I had really been avoiding. Like I had talked to you so many times about this feeling I have of being a mother to him, and it really became apparent to me during this. He was - I talk about being depressed in one sense of the word, but I think it was because of my illness and I was so frustrated and not being able to do anything. But with him it was sort of like it was because I wasn't able to do anything, and the burden of maintaining a household and more like tending after his own needs was more than he could cope with. [6:55]


And I got to the point where I really started feeling guilty about being sick, and then I thought, my God, what would happen if I ever had a baby and my schedule during the day really got filled up and there wasn't all that time for that extra pampering? What would I have, you know, this long face all the time? 


Well, first I teased him about it and I would try to make a little joke out of it, but he would always just kind of avoid the issue and laugh it off. And even to the point like when I was in the hospital. He would like try to avoid coming to see me because I don't think he could stand to see me being that incapacitated that I couldn't even get out of bed. It really bugged him. 


And it was so funny because for a while I had to stay with some friends because I couldn't climb the stairs, and even they noticed it. He'd come over, and about an hour or so before he was going to leave he'd start sulking. And of course they knew my mental disposition at the time and they would kind of chuckle after he left because I would have to take him to the bedroom and really give him this big pep talk. And they said, "Boy, you know, maybe the doctor should talk to him," and I said, "No, I don't think it would help."


But anyway, it just like really got to the point where, after I started getting better, you know, he sort of just quit doing everything. It's like okay now, it's back to the old routine. I don't really know what my feelings were. I think before, I used to get really frustrated and angry and hostile, but I know it felt fine for him.


COUNSELOR: Fine with it, yeah.


PATIENT: Yeah. And in the meantime I started feeling sorry for myself or - yeah, feeling sorry for myself, because I was in the position. I guess I had always envisioned the man being the stronger force and being right there on the spot when needed.


COUNSELOR: He's there, it's like staring you in the face, but he's the one who needs to be taking care of you.


PATIENT: Right, and it was really very depressing. I know several people noticed it and brought it to my attention, which wasn't necessary, but I guess that that woman realized that I wasn't creating something. [9:41]


And another thing that I noticed was that we had discussed the drinking situation and I really found myself to become so anti-liquor; not so much that I don't enjoy having a few drinks, but that I just really abhor getting drunk and all that any more and he just - like he can't understand it. He thinks that I'm like lecturing him, so I have found myself not saying anything at all. I just kind of try to avoid it. 


And he really like - we went away for a couple of days and he really got drunk and was terrible, it was just a terrible feeling. And I was like - I don't know. I really couldn't believe it. Before, I used to always really get frightened when he got that way because he would get so mean, but this time I don't know. It was like I really didn't care if he'd get near me or anything, but I was just tired of overlooking these things, and I literally had to scream my lungs out to get him back into the motel room and just - it was enough for me to force him to bed. 


And I was just like so - I don't know what it was. It was just a terrible feeling, but I just wanted to pack and leave so bad. I was really in kind of a situation where I could have done it and really not had - usually it's a problem with where will you go and all this stuff, but this was different because there was friends that I knew there, they were my friends not his friends, and it was like I just couldn't do it. And it was fine because I got dressed and undressed twice and a couple of times - one time I actually did go out of the room and go downstairs to make a phone call and hung up before the call went through. And it was like I thought, well, this is stupid, and I'll just wait until the morning and we'll talk about it. [12:11] 


And so when I woke up in the morning I didn't lose my confidence and I just tried to start a normal conversation, because it just really hit me about this, Lindsay.  For someone to change so drastically when they've had a few drinks, something's really wrong with them. Something is coming out that ordinarily isn't allowed to come out. And I felt, well, maybe you could have a rational conversation about this, and he just refused to talk about it. He said, "I don't know what you expect me to say, but I don't know why I do it and it bothers me more than it bothers you," and that was it. And then again - 


COUNSELOR: He said that about himself, it bothers him more?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Um-hmm. And then I got to thinking about therapy and everything. And I thought; well, like sure, it's easier to turn somebody off to talk about it than it is to face it. And like for him to say something direct to me he'd be facing something.


COUNSELOR: So you can see there's really something wrong with him up to the point where he won't even look at it.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: And I'm sure like this sexual thing is really, you know, like - I know it's starting to bug him. Because like especially most of the time people will say, well, why don't you have children and all this, but that's something that you can pass off. But like when I was sick a lot of people started teasing him and all this, and he really was getting nervous because it's like we're living a lie. And I mean I'm sure a lot of married couples with all different kinds of lies, you know, this is just of our particular bag. But it's like I think I've reached the point really where I feel that it's bad. It's really pulling us apart. [14:17] 


And I know that I have really had to fight off a lot of temptations in the past few months, only because I knew that I couldn't - I mean I've had such a hard time expecting and living with that other episode that I could never continue on. And I have like tried to reach out in every different way to him and it just doesn't do me any good. I can't - it's like I - I don't know. It's really gotten to the point where I'm really getting like so upset about it that I want to like vomit because it's just getting sickening to me. 


COUNSELOR: Just that absolutely nothing works?


PATIENT: That absolutely nothing works and like it's like this whole thing with - I go to bed and I'll fall asleep and then he'll come to bed like about a half hour or 45 minutes later, which isn't like he stayed up two or three hours longer, and then he'll lay there and masturbate excessively and it really bugs me because I think to myself, oh my God, like if you really have a sexual urge then why don't you do something about it? And like  - 


COUNSELOR: So there's the lie you're talking about is just blatantly there when you're lying in bed together.


PATIENT: Yeah. And then I have like - I talk to him about masturbation, and I said, you know, I really don't care for it that much, and I said I really feel that if my sexual life is satisfied, that I wouldn't be so dependent on it, and he just sort of like doesn't see that. Like because to him, he feels that the reason I'm saying that is because of religious motivation, and he keeps telling me that, it's not that bad and all that, and I try to explain to him, no, that has nothing to do with it. I'm not objecting to it, it's just that like you can't exist solely on that sort of sexual gratification.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like you get pretty disgusted and irritated at him for keeping  - 


PATIENT: Oh, it's like I had found myself really - I think that's why I'm like so nervous all the time, because I keep so much inside myself. But I'm afraid to say anything because it just  - I'm always afraid it's not going to sound right or it's not going to solve the intention. 


Like a lot of times on Saturday or Sunday morning I'll try to like make playful advances, and he'll say something like leave me alone, I'm tired, it's only 10 o'clock, and I really get like - all these things are going through my mind, like God, you're just so cold, you're just - you like really turn me off. It's like I don't even want you to touch me, and I'm starting to really feel these really strong hostile feelings towards him and I think that's why.


COUNSELOR: Like he's really turning you off.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. [17:58]


COUNSELOR: And that leaves you not knowing what you can do that's right, like you're really walking on egg shells, not knowing what to do.


PATIENT: Well, I don't know. It's only - I've come to the conclusion that there may not be anything to do. It's sort of like - I feel like it's really reached like the breaking point in that some fine threads of something are holding us together, because it's like really starting to get bad in so many other ways and I'm sure that - it's like maybe neither of us can face up to the fact that maybe the whole thing was a mistake to begin with.


COUNSELOR: So you're just kind of hanging on?


PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know if it's because - well, I suppose it's like I'm sort of waiting for him to do something. I guess that really I'm like taking the easy way.


COUNSELOR: You're not going to be the one who decides.


PATIENT: Yeah. Like I feel that maybe something could be salvaged from this, and so I feel that if it's really hopeless, then I think that he will just be the one to say this is it because  - 


COUNSELOR: You mean he'll be the one who sees that, who [makes that final line] (ph)?


PATIENT: I don't know if he'll actually know why, because I really and honestly believe now that he has maybe - maybe he thinks that he is aware of the problem because he thought so many of them over in his mind, but I have too, and I don't think - I mean like before I started coming here I was like really getting very frustrated and I didn't know why. I knew that there were problems, but I wasn't willing to face up to them. I just was like they were there, but okay, everyone has them, and I think maybe this is the problem with Charlie. I think he feels that he knows that there are things that are wrong, but I don't think he's been able to categorize them in his mind. [20:46]


COUNSELOR: Not really look at them, you're saying, the way  - 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: At least you now have them out in the open in some way and you're not kind of sitting on them.


PATIENT: Well, I think the fact that I have tried to bring some of them out into the open and I keep hitting this blank wall. It proved to me that he really isn't willing to face up to them. I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that his parents didn't have a happy marriage and maybe he feels that like it would be a real blow to him because he's been so successful at everything else. And outwardly he appears to be so well adjusted and he's like so evenly balanced and everything, and it would sort of like blow his game if all of a sudden something like this would happen.


COUNSELOR: So it seems like he really invested in seeing himself as a healthy person.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: So that makes it pretty useless to even hide it. [22:04]


PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. Because I think we all have images of what our married life is going to be and it's always, well, I'm going to do things differently than my parents did it and things like that. But just when I really listen to him talk about things, like when we have children it's going to be this way and it's going to be that way, like our kids are going to be really the most well-balanced children on this earth, I mean they're not going to have anything wrong with them at all, and it's so foolish, because it isn't going to be that way. 


COUNSELOR: That seems like almost a farce that he can talk that way.


PATIENT: It really does, because it's sort of like the big things that he has like about - criticizing the way different people raise their children, and I mean even so far as going and telling our best friends that they weren't doing such a great job. It's unbelievable. You know, I just can't believe that he could have done something like that. And I don't know. It's like with his drinking; I've said to him on different occasions, like we really present this great picture, and then all of a sudden like, wow, you're in another world. I said what are people going to think about you then, after you've presented this really great human being and then all of a sudden you just really blow your cool? And it's sort of like that's the one thing that really hits home with him, because it really destroys that whole image. [24:01] 


And I don't know. It's like I really have a really great fear that he is trying to do things because of so much of this. And I'm starting to feel like - I guess I don't know if it's just because it's lasted what seems like so long, but it's sort of like I really don't need to care to talk about it any more. I find myself, like if we have an argument about something or something happens where I really get angry, or if he really gets angry at me for something, it's sort of like I find myself just making up so that I don't have to talk about it any more because it's like I can't be bothered. It's like I'm tired of all this frustration and aggravation and it's just so hard not to get anywhere. You might as well ignore the stuff.


See I've tried to - I think the one thing that bothers me more than anything is that I feel that maybe so much of it is because of me. And I don't mean like because it's all one-sided, but because of the fact that maybe the whole marriage wasn't right to begin with and that maybe he felt that he really could really, really become totally dedicated to me and it didn't happen. Like I think he is dependent on me because I have satisfied a lot of desires and needs that never were fulfilled in his life. But I really feel that that's the kind of love that he has for me, which I'm not criticizing because I can appreciate it, but I don't think it goes beyond that. [26:34]


COUNSELOR: It's not like a marriage.


PATIENT: No, it isn't. And like it would be the same thing if he married me for nothing but sex, which it's so funny because in the beginning I thought that was why he married me; simply because he knew that I had gone to bed with him and hadn't done it with anyone else, that like I felt that that was why he was marrying me, to like satisfy my guilt feelings, but it's turned out to be just the opposite.


And like I try to think back about, well, why did I feel particularly towards him and no one else? What was there about him that was so significant that I would become so overwhelmed? And I think that it was a lot of this dependency that I like really found enjoyment in having someone be dependent on me. He - even though as much as he battled the relationship growing into anything more than just a fondness for each other, he was definitely the aggressor in many ways and never gave me the feeling that like there wouldn't be a telephone call or that just like one day he'd say that's it, good bye. [28:21] 


COUNSELOR: It's kind of a security. 


PATIENT: Yeah I  - 


COUNSELOR: You always knew you could count on him  - 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: - to be dependent on you is a lot what you're saying.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. And  - 


COUNSELOR: So you knew you couldn't lose him in a way.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: From the beginning, when you were dependent on him.


PATIENT: Yeah. He was - you know it was like it was - he was always there and it was so different from anyone else, because it was like the game was over, you know, the guessing of whether he's going to call or not call. And that always bugged me. I always found that when someone would do that to me I would become very desperate. And even if I didn't really care for them that much I would find that I was chasing them just so that I could get some sort of a commitment from them, and I never had to do that with Charlie. 


COUNSELOR: So that was kind of like with him you didn't have to deal with your own uncertainty about whether or not he'd be there.


PATIENT: Even now I know on different occasions when things have happened that will cause me to think about whether he's going to come home or not or whether he'll leave and not come back the rest of the night or something. Oh, I'll get upset about it for a while, but then I'll sort of like just forget about it because I know he won't. [29:58] 


And I really have the feeling that we're - really both of us - are living in some kind of a dream world and you just really - neither of us can accept reality. You know, even like with the night that he got so obnoxiously drunk. We had gone to his brother's college, and for some reason I think that had a lot to do with it, because it was like he was so envious of his brother's freedom and being able to do what he wanted to do when he wanted to do it and not having the responsibility of a job and a marriage and bills and everything, that it was like he couldn't control it. And the few times that I said something to him, he'd say, oh, I'm having a good time, and don't say anything because you can't really appreciate what it's like, and it means that I had never gone to school. And I said no, I said I suppose that way I can't, but I said it would be like if I were to go back to any particular point in my life and become so wrapped up in it that I would completely be all sense of - I don't know, you know - just common sense really. 


And then like two days later he said, oh, I'm so happy I'm through with all that, I could never go back to that.


COUNSELOR: So first he could have put you down because you didn't do it and then he said it wasn't worth it anyway.


PATIENT: Well, it's funny like. I didn't really take it - like two years ago I would have taken it as a real put-down, but I really didn't take it that way because I think in a way, rather than putting - well, maybe in his like feeble attempt he was trying to put me down to rationalize what he was doing, and it was - I think that we're getting back to the dream world. I think that's really both of our problems. It's sort of like the marriage never grew with either of us. It's like I think that was the one big thing about having children was sort of like if we had children that would change our whole position in life, because even though we're still married I think we both consider ourselves free agents in our own little way. [32:49] 


And sort of like I think - well, I know that this is sort of Charlie's philosophy, because he's indicated it to me on different occasions, but it's sort of like as long as there are no children I can walk out without feeling remorseful about it. And I think that I don't want children because if that happens I don't want to be stuck with the children. And I mean that's like - when I think about it, I think that really sounds cold, because that's really a stupid way to think about your marriage; you know, like you don't want any type of binding agreement, you know.


COUNSELOR: What you're saying is that there really isn't any binding anyway.


PATIENT: No, right.


COUNSELOR: So that it doesn't make sense to have children.


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: In some ways the marriage is really built on both of your insecurities and there never was any kind of mutuality.


PATIENT: I also have the feeling too that like - well, I've really been talking children recently, simply because I feel that I want to have a child. I mean I've really given it a lot of thought and I don't think that I'm like using it as a weapon. [34:18]


COUNSELOR: There's something in you that makes that want to happen. 


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: Even though the marriage is rocky.


PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I shouldn't really say that. I should say that, yes, I have thought about it in terms of like maybe not that we would be using a child, but it would be sort of like maybe it will make both of us kind of grow up, and I know that that's like dreaming too, because it's not possible that a child could change any particular situation. 


But I have this funny feeling that the reason that so much is falling through now and wasn't two years ago is because we have really allowed ourselves to drift into the self-pity. I know how I feel. Like I find that I'm - I really feel sorry for myself at times, like why does this have to happen to me and what am I going to do now if this whole thing falls through? And I really get to the point where I really - I start like searching out answers about where I'm going to go and what I'm going to do and who I'm going to turn to, see, and that's like the predominant factor in all my thinking is who am I going to turn to. [36:02] 


COUNSELOR: So are you saying that's what's made things fall apart, that you spent so much time thinking about where are you going to go that you don't have time to think about what you  - 


PATIENT: No. I think what it is, is that both of us are each so concerned with our own unhappiness that we are no longer working together.


COUNSELOR: So it's just kind of gone downhill.


PATIENT: Yeah. See, it's like when I look back at it now I can see that our marriage had reached different cycles at different times, and it really did go up before it went down. And when it went up was at the time that I think we should have done something, or something happened at that one particular point that started making things go down. And I don't really know when or for what reason, but it was just sort of like everything started going off in separate directions. And I guess that I - maybe I guess I feel that maybe a child would stabilize it, because I feel that both of us are stable people. I don't think that we're like not capable of raising a family, but we aren't having a family because of selfish reasons. I know that sounds like a circle, but it's like I think Charlie would be afraid to have a child and then have the legal issues if something would happen. I think that really bothers him. [38:10]


COUNSELOR: It bothers you too, you're saying.


PATIENT: Yeah, it does. I don't think it has anything to do with his feelings about my capabilities to be a mother, but I think it would really poke him to have to walk out on a child. And so therefore I think that's the one reason why he has really become, you know... And it seems funny, but like now I think his desire to have sex is even lessening because he knows that I'm not doing anything and I won't let him do anything, so his fear of my getting pregnant is really overwhelming. And I just don't know if bringing all these things out into the open with him - like I do bring things out, but I'm really not that candid. I'm always kind of like trying to say things in a nice way and like being protective of him, because I know how badly he becomes affected when I really do lash out on him, at him, and say things that are really like cutting. He gets very, very upset emotionally and he like takes two days to recover. And I don't know. It's sort of like when I said we lived in a dream world, I think it's like just funny things that happened that really make me feel that way about myself and about him. [40:08]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like that, like nothing's faced; and half the time you think the whole thing is so terrible that you should just walk away, and half the time you think you should have a child so that could bring you together, in some magical way that would change things. It all seems very drifting and unreal.


PATIENT: I don't know. It seems so funny. I think about it like in so many ways. Charlie's so responsible about things, like the normal things in a marriage, like paying the bills and really maintaining a good credit rating and all that, just very important to him. And I don't know. It seems that all - he gets very angry with me because I don't - I really don't get uptight about things like that and I wish - I guess the reason that I don't is because it's really not that important to me. The things that really do count are like overlooked, and the things that are like so minor, there's such a big deal made out of it. 


And he gets very angry with me because I'll just slough it off and I'll walk out of the room. I won't sit and listen to him rant and rave about how much he feels he'll actually feel, and he gets very angry and he'll say, "Well, that's why you had all those bills when we got married." And I just think to myself if he could get that wrapped up in our problems, I would be willing to take part in the conversation. [42:10]


COUNSELOR: But it's like the kinds of things he gets wrapped up in are just ridiculous compared to the stuff that you have to face with each other. 


PATIENT: It's like, I don't know. There were times when I was sick really that I wish that he hadn't even come home. It was just that, I don't know. It was so funny because I would think, gee, I've been home all day and I should really look forward to seeing him, but it just wasn't there. I really just feel so helpless because I just don't want to have to be the one to walk out. I just really feel like I might just be doing a terribly wrong thing. Because I guess the feeling with me is that like just the opposite of his; that everything that I've ever done has basically been a failure and that if I were to walk out I would have to admit that I failed.


COUNSELOR: That's your failure.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: So really, you like taking it all on yourself, [but it didn't] (ph) make marriage work.


PATIENT: Yeah. And you know, I guess as much as I can think rationally about the things that are wrong with Charlie, I still basically feel that a lot of that is my fault and that somewhere along the line I'm not doing something right. And I try to like - I end up playing games. I try to figure out what are we doing wrong and I'll make all kinds of outstanding efforts to really do something great and it just doesn't see to work. [44:23]


COUNSELOR: So it's almost impossible just to walk out, because that would leave you with your own sense of guilt or blame.


PATIENT: Yes, and also I think that I feel like - I don't know why but I have like this desperate need to know why it didn't work. That's the one thing I haven't been able to face up to, even though I know that from the start it was my insistence that pushed the marriage and that there's like a million related incidents that I could point to. But what is like the really - you know, like what is it that isn't - I don't think - I'm afraid that if we were to call it quits tomorrow I would never find out and I just would have to know. And I can't right now put my finger on anything. I thought that  - 


COUNSELOR: Is that the same feeling as like you're wanting to know what did I do wrong? You really have to know that?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. See, it's like - like the sex thing really bothers you because I think the thing that really - not even so much the fact that it's the situation that we're in, but I'm wondering, and I think that's what really bothers me more than anything, is if I could ever have a normal relationship with anyone. [46:20]


COUNSELOR: So there's some kind of sense that you were really badly - you did really badly with this relationship, and maybe that's you, that is you, and if you don't figure out what made this one go wrong then you'll never be okay.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. See, it's like there are so many questions I have. Like I think about like the fantasies that I have about sex. Is that what made me lose interest in a normal sexual relationship, or was it that I got bored? And would I get bored with someone else? 


COUNSELOR: Seems like you're saying with both of those. At least you feel that way.


PATIENT: Yeah, I do feel that way, and that's what bothers me. And I also have a feeling too that I found after I was married that sex didn't really appeal to me anymore. Not that - and I don't mean to put that in the same thing with boring, but I mean it was just sex, period. It just didn't appeal to me. [48:02]


COUNSELOR: Are you saying you really want that to be okay and normal and healthy and something?


PATIENT: Well, yeah, because it's so funny like really there's really nothing about marriage that I dislike except sex. And it's not so much that I even dislike it, but it's just that I don't get anything from it, and that I could go into another marriage and be happy, but would the sex thing be satisfied? And I don't know. I think another thing that - well, I ask myself those questions and then I wonder too if the fact that Charlie wasn't more aggressive, if that had anything to do with it, like did that destroy it for me, you know, what  - 


COUNSELOR: It could have been just him you're saying or the way you were paired with him. It may not be something in you that is crazy, you know, or perverted.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Or did he - the reason just of him becoming less aggressive; was it because of my response to him, which would bring it right back to me again. Because I realize that my responsiveness did decrease after I got married and didn't really seem to like encourage the natural spontaneous type of sexual activities that I could claim now that we don't have, and is it because I didn't respond to it when I did have it. [50:08]


COUNSELOR: Sounds like all of those long years of bad feelings have really convinced you that it has to be you, it must be something that's wrong with you.


PATIENT: Well, I don't know. It's sort of like I feel that like I've reached a point where - like when I first started coming I was so concerned with my attraction, you know, for other men. And I don't know if it's because I changed, I don't know what it is, but it's sort of like that really doesn't bother me any more. I don't really even pay any particular attention to it, and I have found that since I don't it doesn't happen and that I don't have to think about it. And I don't feel the guilt about having desires. I don't know why they just disappeared and I don't know if it's just temporary.


COUNSELOR: One more thing, you just don't look at them enough.


PATIENT: Well, it's sort of like I started, you know, out - when I was sick I started thinking about all the things that I've always wished that I could be interested in or that I could do something to change my attitude about different things, and I started finding that there were really other more important things to be concerned with and I really just don't even care about that type of existence, like going into a party or being able to do that. And I don't know if it's because - but see, this has happened to me before though, like I reach a point of decision and then I maintained it for a while and then I'll break away from it again. But I don't know if this is going to be permanent. Right now I feel it is, and along with that feeling I also feel that I would like to work on those things to see if I can't bring some of this together and bring the things that are like really bothering the two of us out into the open. [53:26]


And I realize that there's like a lot of things that I know if I told Charlie would probably genuinely upset him to the point of maybe even just ruining everything, but I have the feeling now that I don't care. It's like why keep all these things inside of myself? It's like why do I have to be afraid to say something to him about something that's really bothering me?


COUNSELOR: Um-hmm, it's causing all that pain. And you're saying otherwise it builds up to the point where you're just ready to run. So even if it means leaving him, it's time that they come out.


PATIENT: I think that's why like when he had wanted me, you know - well, when I had asked him about starting therapy, it was funny because I think he was relieved because he thought that this would be the solution. And I don't know, like he really just wanted me to start coming for a long time. I mean he just wants me to keep going. And it's funny because, I don't know, maybe he thinks that this is going to just like take care of everything. And I guess in some ways it has helped, but in other ways it hasn't. And I mean like for me it has, but it's not going to help us, because we can't work together on anything that's like really personal, we just cannot work it out.


COUNSELOR: So you're saying you kind of have to go past that myth he has that you're going to settle it all here and really bring these things out in the open. [55:41]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Because like just on the occasions that I have said anything to him about my sexual hang-ups, I guess that he really has the feeling that there's something basically wrong with me. And I guess that's partially my fault because I have made such a big deal out of it all these years. And so that's why I think I really turned him off about wanting to talk to me, because he was so fearful of what I was going to say. And now that I try to talk to him about something, he's like really built up this barrier. And I think that like the thing, too, is that he's afraid if I start talking, that he's going to find himself saying things that he doesn't want to say.


COUNSELOR: So it's much easier for him to shut it all off and then you have to push against that pressure to shut it all off.


PATIENT: A very good indication about that Saturday night, and it really kind of shook me up and I haven't been able to dismiss it at all, it's like right there. But I don't think there's anything I can do about it. I don't know. It might sound kind of silly to you but I think it does have something interesting in it. 


You know, I talked to you about the fact that I worried about whether or not maybe Charlie was fighting some type of a homosexual tendency. And you know, if he - he just mentioned very casually, he was very honest and open about it; he said he had gone through that stage several years back and that he was certainly convinced that he had no desire at all for a man. [57:48] 


And we went to see a movie, and I had discovered recently that whenever we go to see a movie, that he gets very wrapped up in it. And he made a comment to me after leaving the show that he - he said, "I liked the way he thought about love." And I said - at first I said jokingly - I said, "Are you trying to tell me something?" And he said something like no, he said - no, no, he didn't say no. He said, "Well, maybe I am." 


And then all of a sudden it was like I wasn't joking anymore, and I said, oh, you know, I said, "Does his attitude towards love interest you? You know, that a man needs more than one love and that he can never be satisfied unless he has a lot?" And I really started crying, and he got very, very defensive and he said, "Okay, let's quit playing the movie role." And I said, "Well, you're the one that started it, you know." And I said, "Really, because maybe this is like something you've been wanting to talk about."


And it finally got to the point where he told me to shut up and quit talking, and it bothered me. And I thought, well, you're making a mountain out of a mole hill, but it didn't go away and it still does bother me, and I really and truly think that at that precise moment something honest came out that I'm sure probably would have been very funny to me. But I wish it would have come out, because now at this time I don't know what to do and I don't know if I ought to go. 


COUNSELOR: And you're just left with that sort of a hanging sense of what it might be. [60:02]


PATIENT: And I don't really know - you know, I've tried to figure out what the meaning was behind it. I really don't think it was homosexual, you know, but I think maybe that in a way what he was trying to say is that he does have one kind of love with me, but it's not a satisfying love; it's not total and complete. 


COUNSELOR: It seems like that's like the same nebula as your whole experience left you. I mean you're constantly left with this hanging sense of where is he. I mean you just don't know. You have to make up all these things in your head and  - 


PATIENT: Well, I guess that's why I get so whipped up over it because it is something - it's sort of like when someone says, "Oh, I've really got something to tell you," and then they say, "Oh, my God, I can't tell you," and then you get really worked up about it. And I guess that's why like there's so many things that I'm just left with question marks. 


And I have a very vivid imagination, but besides that I have become like really so hostile about this whole marriage that it's sort of like I'm just waiting for that one time when everything's just going to blow open and then obviously you leave, then it's all over. And I just - I don't know how much longer it can go on this way, and I've been saying that for like a year now. 


COUNSELOR: And not quite being able to do anything about it either. [61:57]


PATIENT: No, I would be the one to make the decision.


COUNSELOR: But you're also say that you - it's kind of bringing things out in the open too, although you feel like if you bring them out in the open then that's going to be the end, so that makes you stuck. I mean you don't like where you are, but if you bring it out in the open then you're nowhere and you'd like to leave.


PATIENT: Well, I think too like if I would just pack up and leave, and then I don't think it would really accomplish anything.


COUNSELOR: And but you're making those - you're making that black and white or something. I mean like you're either sitting and bearing it or just packing up and leaving, you know, and you keep sort of fluctuating between those two.


PATIENT: Well, I guess that it's easier to sit and bear it than it is to walk out and I don't think [everyone is converse] (sp) to walk out. I don't feel that I could accept the responsibility of such a decision. And I don't know where I'd go and I think that's what bothers me, you know, the other half of it. 


COUNSELOR: Oh, I think we have to stop.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: Today's the 24th?


PATIENT: Yeah, I think so.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: See you next week.


COUNSELOR: All rightie. 


END TRANSCRIPT
