TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This is interview number five.


PATIENT: I'm sorry I didn't come last week but I wasn't feeling well. 


COUNSELOR: That's fine.


PATIENT: And I really hated to miss it because I had some weird things happen that week. I had a really strange dream that really kind of shook me up. I dreamt that I had gone somewhere to a clinic or something. It was a place where they killed you for a fee. It was like a suicide center. And it was real...it seemed like a really long dream and it was so real. I was really upset about it because I had been so preoccupied with this suicide business that...it was really funny because in the dream I fought to get out of the place after I had signed to go in. [1:19]


COUNSELOR: So it was almost like you were doomed to this end. You clawed your way out.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And it was like, "I really don't want to die." I just kept thinking of suicide as the means to ending all my problems. And then last week, we were at a Christmas Day gathering with my family. Right in the middle of the evening, I just savagely attacked my father. And it was really kind of upsetting because everyone in the whole room just sort of sat there. [2:03] 


Charlie was really upset because he couldn't believe it. It was like...I was in another part of the house and he just came tearing into the room. It really upset me afterwards.


COUNSELOR: It was so freaky because you just exploded out of nowhere?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. It was just...see, I had been in another part of the room and they had been having this big political discussion. I have really made an effort to stay out of these because my father and I disagree so much about it. But I think it's like my one way of getting back at him...not on a personal level. And all of a sudden...I don't even remember how it happened or anything...but I was just like barging down the hallway.


The next minute I knew, I was just standing over him. I was poking my finger right in his face, and I was screaming so loud that it was echoing through the room. It only lasted maybe about two to three minutes, but it seemed like it lasted a lot longer. 


Then after I had recovered from it and everything, I realized what I had done. [3:13]


COUNSELOR: Just out of nowhere. Like you're kind of out of control.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. It was definitely hysterical because I couldn't even re-track my steps to think of what prompted it or why I chose that particular moment or...


COUNSELOR: So now you're thinking, "Why on earth did I do that? Maybe it might happen again."


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Well, things have happened like that before, but never quite that way where it was such a sudden burst. I mean, usually I would be right in the room or right involved in the conversation, and maybe tempers would flare or something. But this was like I wasn't even there and the next minute, I was there just hovering over him. 


It was very...well the thing that was so terrible about it was that I felt like I owed him an apology. I did apologize, but I did it kind of jokingly, because I was really afraid to let myself break down. And when we left I...when I got home, I called and I...Charlie had said, "Well, I think you should call him and explain to him, or try to explain to him why you did it." And I ended up explaining it to my mother. I wouldn't talk to him because I was afraid that I would start to cry or really...my emotions would really break down.


You see, the thing that upset me so badly was that when I had tried to apologize to him, he passed it off like it was nothing. I think if he would have responded to me differently, I would have been able to maybe have shown to him what I had done and why. But by him doing that to me, it didn't seem important anymore. [5:16]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like you weren't important.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And yet when...well like for the next two days, I was just obsessed with him dying. That always happens whenever I have these outbursts with him. I just get so emotionally drained by it because I keep thinking that I'm going to be punished for treating him that way.


COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. For being angry.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I really wish that I could talk to him about it, but I can't. I can't relate to him on either his terms or my terms. 


COUNSELOR: How do you feel about that right now? I mean, can you get into that? How do you feel him, not being able to talk to him, about getting angry and all that? 


PATIENT: I feel resentful in a lot of ways, because the thing when...when he and my mother used to argue, he used to always come to me. It really didn't make any difference how personal it was. He would come to me. And of course it would be his side of the story. It seemed like most of the time, I would take his defense. I would get into vicious arguments with my mother over defending him.


COUNSELOR: He would come to you and you didn't like that. Do you know why? [6:39]


PATIENT: No, I didn't like it because it...well, it used to bother me when they argued anyway, even when I grew older. And then, when he would come to me, it would personally involve me in it. I couldn't close the door and leave the house. I would be actually involved in it then. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 6:57) part of the game. 


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I don't...I resented it because I felt like he was more or less trying to turn me against my mother. 


COUNSELOR: "What's he pulling me into this for? On top of that, he's trying to make me against her."


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And then whenever we would get into a discussion...like my mother and I...about something about staying out too late or something, sometimes he would jump in, in the middle of it, and really wouldn't even know the basis of it to begin with. But then he would start hammering away at me. 


It would be that...it was always a science in our house. It was either my mother and I were against him, which didn't happen very often, or he and I were against my mother, which happened frequently, or my mother and him were against me, which happened just as frequently. There was never that...where we were all able to sit down and discuss it together kind of a situation.


One time, he just came bursting into one of these arguments and started really jabbing below the belt with really ridiculous remarks about my morals and everything. And he reached out for me and I ran for the basement stairs. And he grabbed the back of my dress and he ripped the whole back...like just right down the back. And I was like in a state of shock. I was like 18 years old and I couldn't believe it.


When he walked out of the room, I thought my mother would say, "Well, he shouldn't have lost his temper that way," but instead, she turned around and said that I had owed him an apology because I drove him to losing his temper. And I wouldn't apologize. So we hadn't talked for two or three days because I just couldn't face him. It was like he had really...like ripped into me personally by doing that. [9:22]


COUNSELOR: And then you're going to get so far away from them that they can't to you, or something like that.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I didn't even...we never talked about it after that. It was just like dropped. And that was the way everything was in our house. If a matter was brought up for argument and someone wouldn't give in and apologize, then it was just forgotten about. But it really never was forgotten about.


COUNSELOR: So all that tension and conflict hanging in the air.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And we...I think that's why I have the feelings that I do now. Because, I mean like I really try to go out of my way to be nice to him and respectful and to really let him know that I really do love him. But I just can't come out and say it.


And like when we got married...


COUNSELOR: Would you kind of like to make up for it?


PATIENT: No, but it's just that I feel guilty because I feel like I was their only child and I never really had the relationship with them that I think...that I would have wanted to have with my parents, or vice versa for them. There's always been like a line between us. And I can remember it as far back as I can remember.


COUNSELOR: That's true. You've been really cut off and isolated from them. 


PATIENT: Well see, they never...they never really let me develop into what I wanted to be. Ever. I mean it was always...I think with my mother, it was fear of an only child. She thought that she would lose her hold on me or that something would happen to me. And with my father, I think it was always kind of the fact that...I think he resented not ever having any other children and that he had to build all of his dreams just around me and no one else. [11:40]


And so it was always what they thought that I should be or what I should...what they thought I should do. And just...it just kept going from the time that I started school until even now. They still have their digs about things that they think that I'm doing wrong or that I should be doing differently. 


COUNSELOR: It just kept going. You weren't good enough.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah, they always...yeah, it was funny. Like they always felt that I wasn't excelling like I should or doing in school like I could do. And yet they never really pushed me into...


COUNSELOR: Always not quite good enough, but they didn't care enough to push you.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Because whenever the subject of college would come up or anything, it was always just kind of shoved off to one side. Because I don't think they really wanted me to go away. That was the whole...the whole thing behind that.


And so, like they weren't happy with the fact that I wasn't getting the best grades that they knew I was capable of getting. But it was...it didn't mean enough to them to really push the issue or to sit down and find out why. And I think that...


COUNSELOR: That's where you were left, right?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm.


COUNSELOR: They didn't care enough to find out why. They didn't care enough to discuss things with you. [13:22]


PATIENT: Yeah. The only time...like when I was in the second half of my junior year, I started going with a fellow who was very active in school and was National Honor Society and everything. And from that period, until I graduated, I did excellent in school. And it was because he was pushing me all the time, because grades were really important to him. He would help me at home and...it was so funny because my parents couldn't figure out the change, and I guess I didn't either at the time.


COUNSELOR: But you needed somebody to push you.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Up until that time, anybody I'd ever dated was really like nothing. And so there was never an influence there that I guess I really needed. But I think even with my relationship with Charlie, they resented that, too, right from the start. Because I don't think they felt that Charlie was good enough for me. I don't know why. Whether it was because of his family background or because of the way he was when he came over.


I mean, he has his certain beliefs and ideals in life, which he speaks out very strongly on. And he's not a "yes man" to my father. The first couple of years we were married, my father kept provoking arguments with him and digging him with these really ridiculous things. He would jokingly say something like...that he was going to make a heathen out of his daughter, or that he had changed my whole political philosophy. And just everything that was really personal to my father, he was bringing out in me in saying that Charlie had caused these changes.


And then he would start digging at him and they would get into these violent arguments to the point where Charlie wouldn't argue with him anymore. Then he became very resentful of him because he wouldn't argue with him. [15:53]


So it's just been a continuous chain of events since I can remember with him. That's probably why I do lash out at him like that without even thinking about it. I don't know. But it really bothers me because I know that it hurts him. And I don't want to do it because I don't see any point in it now. It's not going to really change what has happened over the years between he and I, and yet I keep doing it. And it upsets me a great deal.


But the one good thing that has happened...really, out of all of this I think...is that it has pulled...my feelings with Charlie are closer. We seem to be adjusting to each other better now than we ever have before. And we've...well, we had a talk about some of these problems...these sexual problems that we have. And I've told him some of the things that I wish that he would change. And it has made a little bit of a difference. It's kind of developing slowly, but it's changing a little.


COUNSELOR: I'm having trouble getting a sense of what's real for you right now about that. I sort of feel like you're telling me about it or something. Where are you with it?


PATIENT: With the sexual...?


COUNSELOR: Or with Charlie. I mean, I'm having trouble getting a hold of that. If it were me, it would be, "If sex wasn't so lousy right now," or "I want it to go here or there and I can't do that." Where are you? [17:56]


PATIENT: Right now, I think...I think it's at a standstill. I think that...that we are both like...I don't feel as secure in my marriage as I did six months ago, because of things that he has said to me, and I'm sure because of things that I have said to him. I think that we're kind of both just waiting to see what's going to happen next. 


At times, I feel like it's starting to rebuild into a solid union. And then something will happen, and it will kind of take the edge off of that a little. But then it will go back. It's sort of like...right now, it's just something that we keep tossing back and forth at each other. 


I don't know. Some of the things that are happening...I don't know if it's good or bad. I'm trying to hold back on reproaching him for different things. And yet, I don't know if that's totally right. Because I feel like this is going to go back to the way it was when we first got married...when I never said anything. 


COUNSELOR: So holding back...you're not sure about that?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. With him, I feel that for some reason or another...I think he has the feeling that he's let me down, and that he's trying to rebuild a wall of security around me because he feels that he has to be protective of me. 


COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Right now? 


PATIENT: No. I mean, this is, I think, what his idea of marriage is and his relationship to me anyway...maybe not if he were married to someone else. But we've talked about it to some degree...about how his feelings to me are similar to the feelings toward his mother, in that she never really provided him a warm type of protective security and that this is what he was looking for in marriage. [20:26]


COUNSELOR: Someone to protect him?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. To protect him and mother him. But unfortunately, I was looking for the same thing. And so it was like a game with us. We were always playing this little baby-talk type of little game. 


COUNSELOR: And it's like before...you don't want to let it out or something like that?


PATIENT: It's funny. I really enjoy it. I think that's what bothers me. That's what I mean when I said this little...we had these little things that we'd say to each other and all that. I think that's one reason why the thought of children breaking into this little thing we have with each other is...


COUNSELOR: How could somebody else be a child when you both are children already?


PATIENT: Yeah, because we make such big deals out of little things. It's funny, but we sort of don't break it out in front of other people. But we have slipped in front of his brother or someone like that. They've commented on the way that we say different words or different expressions we have that we use toward each other. And they're sort of laughing at us because I guess it does sound silly like baby talk.


I guess that's when I really became aware of the fact that that was what we were doing. Up until that time, no one had ever brought it to my attention. So I think that's where we...we talk about children and that, but I really don't think that either of us want them now. I mean we may change, but right now...because we can't even communicate with each other on an adult level.


I can't...I mean we can...it's funny, like we can communicate with each other on an adult level about things that don't affect us personally, but not about each other's problems. We sort of laugh them off or make a joke or something like that. [23:03]


With the sexual aspect of our marriage, I kind of have relaxed a little bit with that. I mean, it still bothers me because I still don't have any kind of burning desire. But I don't find it as much of a torture to have a relation with him now, that I did maybe two months ago. And I think a lot of it is the procedure that he's following. It's not some kind of cold, cut-and-dry machine that just operates on one cycle a week and that's it. It has changed my feelings toward him. I can respond to him better now, too because of this, and also because of...I love him. I do want to make him happy and I don't want him to go to someone else to satisfy his needs. 


COUNSELOR: So you want to do that for him.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And when I make him happy, then I feel good. It's like anything. It's not just sex. It's anything that I might do around the house or do that would please him. But I told him that I didn't want to go to school. And he...I don't think he was very happy with it and I think he's hoping that I'll still change my mind. [25:05]


COUNSELOR: That was hard to tell him.


PATIENT: It was because I had been avoiding the issue, but I think he was sort of prepared for it because of that...because I hadn't made an effort to go down and enroll or go through any of the preliminaries of it. And the only thing is that I didn't really tell him why I didn't want to go. I just used an excuse of money for not going.


COUNSELOR: Was it embarrassing or something?


PATIENT: Yeah, I think so because it's like...to me, the important thing to Charlie is an active person...an active mind. I think he's afraid that if I'm just going to be sitting home five or six days a week, that I'm going to get very stagnant and boring to him. I don't think he'd be quite as concerned about it if I read or did some of the things he thinks are important in life. Then I don't think he'd be that concerned about it. But I think he feels that I need that activity. Because basically, I am the type of person who can just get really lazy if I'm put into kind of a routine situation. [26:48]


COUNSELOR: He doesn't like that and it's kind of embarrassing to tell him that?


PATIENT: No, he's aware of it. I mean, I don't really have to tell him because he can tell by the way that I'm getting. Like when I start really talking about trivia or if I start getting really (inaudible at 27:12) and not doing things on schedule. He can see that it's happening. And it has been happening in about the last four or five weeks. I've started to come out of it now and I can see his attitude change toward me. 


Even if what I'm doing doesn't really maybe make me any kind of a more-rounded person, if I get up and wash the kitchen walls, that gives him something like, "Well, she's doing something. She's not just laying around."


COUNSELOR: He wants you to be active.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I think I figured out why. Because I think he resents the fact that he has to go out to work and I'm not doing anything constructive with my time.


COUNSELOR: Is that...have you checked that out with him or is that (inaudible at 28:17)?


PATIENT: That thought just hit me. Because it's...we always have a joke about that. On the mornings that he has to get up that I don't get up, or vice versa, there has always been a little jealousy between us. I resent having to get up to go to work on a day that he has off or something. And I think the same holds true with him. Maybe when he comes home after working all day and doesn't see anything accomplished or anything done, then he gets resentful of it. [29:00]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Not only did he have to go to work while you sat home, when you sat home, you didn't do anything.


PATIENT: But the funny thing is that I think if he were to come home after a day, and I would say, "Well, I just read 400 pages of War and Peace," I don't think that would really impress him. I mean, to me that would really be doing something. But that's not physical. That's why like at school...when I did go to school for a while when we were married, he still expected me to maintain the kind of house and meals along with school at the same time. It was hard. 


I would go to class and before I'd go to class at night, I'd have to have dinner on the table so that he could eat while I was in class. And I don't think that's fair. And I think that that's why going to school doesn't mean that much to me because it's going to be like double work. I keep thinking of that all the time. 


COUNSELOR: And he keeps making you do two things.


PATIENT: Yeah, because this goes back to...like with his mother. His mother worked for as long as he can remember. But she worked. That was it. She didn't maintain a home. She didn't prepare meals that often. She never washed or ironed for the kids. It was like they were adults from age seven on up. I can see now why this would upset him if he were married to a woman who would be the same way. But it can't all be waiting on you. [30:52]


I make jokes now about, "Well, I don't find tips under your plate at the end of a meal," and stuff like that.


COUNSELOR: So it is like you really resent serving him or something like that. You're not getting anything out of it. You're just like a maid sometimes.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. A maid or a mother. Because the mother usually doesn't complain if she has to get up 50 times during the meal to get this or that.


COUNSELOR: The part of it that really...I mean, it's not the mothering him that bothers you. It's something like you're not getting anything out of it or having him force you to do it or demanding you do it, or something like that.


PATIENT: Yeah, I think that's it. I mean, it's like I don't...I know that there are times when perhaps I deserve to be scolded because I've done something wrong or I haven't done something. But I resent having him come home at the end of the day and saying, "Well, what did you do today?" or "I hate to ask you this, but what did you do all day?"


COUNSELOR: It's like already a put-down. 


PATIENT: Yeah, and before...and then I stand there like trying to justify every hour of the day.


COUNSELOR: Like he really puts you on the line there. You've got to justify yourself for him.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I don't...I really do resent that because I don't feel that I have to run that house for two people like some kind of organized ship. It's ridiculous! But I started off on the wrong foot. That's what I did from the beginning. I went through the routine of getting up every morning and fixing breakfast and all that kind of stuff. And of course, this was like a new thing to him. Then when it started to slow down and then it went into the point where it really slowed down to just the normal everyday things, not really going out of your way all the time, I think it was hard for him to accept. And I get these really strong guilt feelings about it, like I'm really letting him down. And so then I'll get this really big conscientious drive to get back into the routine of things. Yet, I don't feel that...I don't feel comfortable in that situation because that's not why...I didn't get married for that.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you always have to measure up or something. That's not what marriage is about. [33:45]


PATIENT: See, I was...it was so similar to that at home, that that's probably why I resent it, too. Because when I lived at home, I had two days off a week. And the free day that I had, which I really considered a free day, was during the week, not a Sunday or something like that. But I always had this little list of chores that I had to do that day, instead of doing what I wanted to do on that day off.


COUNSELOR: Always somebody imposing something on you that you didn't want to do. 


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I preferred to go along at my own pace. I like to do what I want to do when I want to do it. When I start a job, I'll usually finish it. Sometimes it takes me awhile, but I'll finish it. But I don't like someone standing there with a timetable telling me when I have to have it finished. 


COUNSELOR: Like, you've got to be your own person in that. Why should people lay their stuff on you? 


PATIENT: I think that from what he has told me in the last couple of weeks that he is aware that he has done this to me. He keeps talking about how he should be the protector and the one who should offer the security, and that I should be able to lean on him, but it's sort of been like in the reverse. I haven't seen any kind of a measurable change. I mean, I know he's aware of it, but it's not really happening.


COUNSELOR: Who should be the protector? [35:56]


PATIENT: That he should. And that I...that I should be able to come to him with my problems, and that I should be able to feel relaxed and comfortable in our situation...in a marriage situation. And sometimes I do. I really find that it's not a chore at all being married. For the most part, I don't. Except that I guess it comes out in other ways when I get these really high-strung periods where I can't concentrate on any given thing for a certain period of time, or I have these hysterical attacks like I did on Christmas and this sort of thing. I mean because I...that has happened to me before. It hasn't just happened with my father. 


It bothers me that I can lose control of myself that way. Or that I could just...that I can't see myself as a relaxed...kind of a level-minded type of person. I get emotional at the wrong times about the wrong things. And it shouldn't be that way. 


COUNSELOR: As you're watching yourself, you feel like you should be different. Being different would be not so high-strung and not out-of-control... like that? 


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Like, we'll talk about things that I feel that I would like to do with my time. And I don't know...I can't really blame Charlie that I don't do them, although he doesn't really give me that encouragement like, "I think that's a great idea." [38:38]


I get a big kick out of volunteer work. And it's always like, "Well, if you're going to be tied up all day with that, you know you could get a job," or that sort of thing. Well, that's not the same thing to me. Because the kind of work that I would like to do, I could never get paid for because I'm not properly qualified. But yet, I could do it on a volunteer basis and get enjoyment out of it and satisfaction. 


COUNSELOR: And then he tells you that's not any good.


PATIENT: Well, we talked about it. It's not that...I don't think he feels that it's any...maybe he feels that I would get too wrapped up in it. 


COUNSELOR: And never do anything else?


PATIENT: Maybe. Or that I would become too emotionally involved with it. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 39:34)


PATIENT: Well, like when I...when we talk about what I would want to be if I did go to school, I'll tell him, "Well, I think maybe I would like to be a social worker or something," and he'll say, "Well, I don't think that you really could because you would get too emotionally involved." And I probably would from past experiences. So maybe he's afraid that if that did happen, that that would just set me more off balance than I feel about myself already. Then I would never really get anything done.


COUNSELOR: Too emotionally involved...you'd get too upset from the work?


PATIENT: No, that I start to identify too personally with other people and their problems because then it's like an escape from my own problems.


COUNSELOR: I see.


PATIENT: And I think basically that's true. Because if I read an article about someone or I hear about someone, that'll upset me emotionally. Then I can't think of anything else for two or three days. When I think about it, I cry and I get really upset. But I'm not thinking about myself or anything that affects me personally when this is going on. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I see. It's like you just keep practicing at everything, but just can't your (inaudible at 41:15) back.


PATIENT: And this was one thing that...the work that I did do never caused me to get this way. It did for a while, until I realized that it was really stupid. But I was a hairdresser and people would talk to me about their problems. And I would really get really hung up about it. I'd come home and that was all I'd talk about. For two hours I'd just ramble on about something that they would tell me. And he would really get upset about it. "That's really stupid. What are you getting...?" and so I don't do that anymore. I've really kind of turned off to that whole thing. [42:06]


But I think if I were working with people directly, that I would...it wouldn't be that easy to turn off. I mean, you couldn't because that's not why you're there. I probably would take it home with me and do the same thing only it probably would be much worse. And I think that goes back to the fact that it has to be just him and me and our problems. Forget everybody else. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Face up to them.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I don't...I personally have a very strong feeling about that...that Charlie is convinced that our marriage is going to come to an abrupt end. I've had this really uneasy feeling about him for about the last month or so. Because he keeps talking in such negative tones about it..."Well, if this marriage works out," and that sort of thing. It's a new kind of talk. He's never talked to me that way before. 


I don't feel that way. His feelings aren't making me change. But it's just sort of an uneasy feeling. I get this weird feeling that when he leaves for work in the morning, he's not going to come home at night. Sometimes I prepare myself all day for it. "What will I do?" "Who will I call?" "Where will I go?" I just go through the whole thing. I just map it all out in my mind. Then he comes home and I just forget about it. And then two days later, the whole thing will happen again. 


COUNSELOR: You're really afraid of losing him.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I don't really know where he'd go. I mean, it's just like I get this really weird feeling that he's just not going to come home. Or like sometimes if he goes out at night, I have the feeling that he's just not going to come back. I haven't been able to talk to him about this. I don't know why. I just don't want to talk about unpleasant things, I guess. [44:53]


COUNSELOR: It's hard. Then you might find out he would leave.


PATIENT: I think so because whenever I've asked him a direct question, he's usually been pretty truthful and blunt about it. It's sort of unsettling. You don't know how to respond to it after he blurts out this thing that you know was maybe true all along. So I just don't ask. I'm aware of it. I mean, I have a feeling that it could happen and I guess I'm sort of like bracing myself for it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like you're just waiting for a thunderstorm. You don't have any control over it.


PATIENT: I don't think that it's even in his mind, but sometimes I have a feeling that...he gets so strung-out about things that these pressures build. He just...I just like to have hysterical fits...he has other things that I can see in him. But when these things start to come out of him, it's like frightening to me because I know that something is bothering him and I can see it. 


That's why I guess I have the feeling that there would never be a warning if he did, because he would just like really blow up and just go. 


COUNSELOR: So now you see these little troubles he's having and that might be what's coming before (inaudible at 47:09).


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 


COUNSELOR: Then he'd just go and you would be left.


PATIENT: But I'm not afraid of it as I used to be. A couple of times, like when he was in school, he wouldn't come home until 10 o'clock that night. He wouldn't call or anything. I would get really upset and angry about it. Then I would really get frightened that either something had happened to him or that he wasn't coming back. But I really don't get that frightened anymore because I feel that if the marriage does fall through, then I'm just going to have to accept it. It would be very difficult for me because I'm not that agreeable to that kind of a change, but it would be something that I would just have to work out. [48:26]


COUNSELOR: It's not the end of the world. You can manage. On the other hand, there's something that you're saying...it's almost like you are just waiting for it to happen. I mean it's like assuming that you have no control over what's happening now...like you're just letting it go until kaboom!


PATIENT: That's sort of the feeling I have and I don't know why. We get into these deep discussions...well, especially now...and we talk about a lot of things. But I keep having the feeling that the point is being missed. It's like we're just going around it and I can't put my finger on it. Maybe if I could, then I would be able to sit back and relax and not get...


COUNSELOR: What is the point? (inaudible at 49:24)


PATIENT: I don't know. I can't...I can't put my finger on it. I don't know if it's because I could be questioning my own feelings and my own love that it frightens me to even think about it, so I don't. We just touched on it that one time when he told me about why he married me. And I think if that conversation would have gone along any farther, then there might have been more to come out of it. 


COUNSELOR: Can you feel yourself in that right now and try and get back in it and when it was there was the point there? [50:09]


PATIENT: Well, it was like both of us...we were each telling ourselves that we were each good for each other and that we were both pushing. I was pushing hard for a long time and I think that's still a part of it...was because I had been sleeping with him. But I feel like maybe at that point in my life, I felt that I had reached nothing. I was going nowhere and I wasn't doing anything. And there was like a change that was needed desperately at the time.


My best friend was moving to Texas. I mean, I could have gone with her, but I really didn't want to. I was afraid to make that kind of a change. So there really wasn't that much left for me to do except maybe to just move out of the house or get married. It had...it was right there. [51:30] 


The thing that always bothered me...and it still does...is that I was very close with someone else at the time. And the closeness was still there, even after I became pretty attached with Charlie. For a long, long time, that haunted me a lot, a lot. Like I had really kind of maybe made the wrong decision. 


I had an opportunity to see this fellow about two or three years after we were married. I had pretty well convinced myself that I hadn't made the wrong decision. I mean, really. I think I was right. But yet, that meeting with him was very traumatic for me. I cried for the whole next day over it. I don't know if it was because of just a feeling of loneliness for him or what. But I think that all of that is why I'm where I'm at today with Charlie.


COUNSELOR: Because it was really mixed up when you first got married?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Oh and before, too...the whole year before. It was just like a merry-go-round. 


COUNSELOR: You could have chosen somebody else and you weren't quite sure if Charlie was right and you were thinking...


PATIENT: The really tragic thing is that Charlie wasn't really included in much of this, where the other fellow was perfectly aware of my relationship with Charlie. I had many long, serious discussions with him about it and I think he realized that I was very mixed up. He was trying to guide me in the right direction, but I didn't take it that way at the time. I thought he was doing it for his own personal interest. I don't think he really was. I don't really think that I ever would have even married him because we had developed into too good of a friendship. We were too outspoken with each other. [54:01]


Yet, I could never discuss anything, not even a little pinpoint of this, with Charlie because he would immediately turn it off. He didn't want to hear about anything that had to do with me and someone else. So I would keep striving to just keep him out of this picture completely, but he wasn't really out of it. 


My mother kept pushing me and saying, "You can't keep doing this. You have to make a decision." Well, why did I have to make a decision? It was stupid. I don't think she pushed me into marriage, but she kept saying, "Well, you just..." I think she realized that both of them cared for me deeply and that I was playing a game with them, but I wasn't. I really didn't know how to cope with this. [55:00] 


I was very infatuated with Charlie because he was probably the most interesting and different type of person that I had ever dated. He was, in many ways, very responsive. But I couldn't...but I honestly wondered why... if that's one now. Now that I'm five years older...four years older...that I've changed and I've become a different person...if I've kind of grown away from that infatuation. That's what scares me.


COUNSELOR: It's like it was all wrong from the beginning. Now maybe you're just finding that out.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Because I have these weird feelings about future. I can't think of future. And I can't think of...I don't know...it's really funny. Yet I've been able to...like when we lived in California, I could never see living anywhere else. It was like that was the life there at the time. I couldn't visualize changing that and it did and it was alright.


Now I find that I'm in the same situation again. I can't think of moving or houses or children or anything that involves a change because I don't know if that change will ever take place. I can't look that far. I would think that you would. I mean, you would think of these things in a practical perspective of change, and I can't. I don't know if it's because I don't know if I will be able to survive that length of time. [57:20]

I can't really honestly say that I don't love him, because I do. I have a strong feeling for him. I'm sure that it's love, but I don't know what kind of love it is. 


COUNSELOR: There are a lot of doubts in it.


PATIENT: I mean, I don't know if it's like a marital love or a security type of love. We have been good for each other and I'm sure that we have satisfied each other's needs. We've had the good times and the bad times and all that. But I don't know if it's a long-lasting kind of a love or if it's something that's just going to drift into nothingness.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You really don't know where it's going. If you're not sure what it is, then it's even harder to hang on to.


PATIENT: The thing that I guess really depresses me is that it has nothing to do with him at all. It's me. I'm the one who has the really upsetting mental picture of all of this. And I can't even begin to talk to him about it because I am sure that it would really shock him. I don't think he even imagines it. I can't see how I could even approach the subject with him. [59:28]


COUNSELOR: Like how to start, you mean?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 


COUNSELOR: Because it's so big and so much of it is kind of crazy or something. 


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. I think the one thing that really bothers me the most is maybe this is why I have started this constant picking and gnawing at him about different things that in the past, never bothered me. 


COUNSELOR: Because you have all this stuff to say, but you don't know where to start. So it has to just sort of jump out in little ways.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. I've always thought of people who aren't happily married as people who are naggers or really kind of not close at all. I feel like that's what I'm becoming...a real nag. Because I'm just really...I'm barking at him constantly. He barks at me, but he's always done it. With him, it's not nagging. It's just his way. I think that to him, it's my way of getting back at him. That's sort of the way he's figured it out from what he's told me. But I don't think that's it at all. Because I don't want to get back at him. I'm not playing that kind of a game. But I think it's because in many ways, I am unsure of my feelings right now. It's making me very nervous. [61:03]


By picking him apart, it's like strengthening my doubts. Like, "Maybe you were right. Maybe you shouldn't have done what you did," and that sort of thing. 


COUNSELOR: I didn't quite get that. You're picking at him, then you think you did the wrong thing by marrying him? You can confirm that. The fact that you're having to nag at him is like a confirmation that it wasn't right in the first place.


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And it just...it doesn't...the nagging...it's like...well, I've kind of been watching it since we got on that big talk about his drinking. But I'm not going to say that it doesn't bother me because it really does. I didn't say anything to him about it, but it does. It really bugs me and I can't stand it.


COUNSELOR: The drinking?


PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And I don't say anything. But I can't...I know that I can't just hold off indefinitely about it to say anything.


COUNSELOR: So it's really tough to hold down the nagging.


PATIENT: It's not at the drinking. It's the way he acts after he's been drinking that bothers me. And if I...maybe he acted like this before. This is what I'm trying to find out now. Did he just start acting like this? Am I blaming his...the way he acts now on our problems and this is like his release or did he act like this before? And that's what I really can't put my finger on. So I don't know. I'm at a loss with this whole thing. 


END TRANSCRIPT
