TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


[inaudible until 0:00:17.2]... 


PATIENT: ...something like that anyway.


THERAPIST: We have the way of not starting to go around and then [inaudible]... sit down and I of course have no way of knowing what's the matter with it.


PATIENT: Yeah, I've been trying to put my record collection on tape for the last couple of days and I realized...what really bitches machines can be. (chuckling) I know. Just refuse to do what they're supposed to.


THERAPIST: Yeah. We've finally got, after years of having old headquarters, the frog (ph) we couldn't get fixed, we got a shipment of Sony (ph) tape recorders that really worked well. I had one in this office for about a month and a half or so. Oh, do what?


PATIENT: Well at least if they're new ones they're easier to fix.


THERAPIST: Yeah, that's true. We had some pretty antique Walls (ph) out there.


PATIENT: (chuckling) Take them all down Milton road some morning and... [making noise]


THERAPIST: Take them down Milton road and do what?


PATIENT: And hawk them off as hot.


THERAPIST: Now that's an idea we didn't have. (chuckling)


PATIENT: Probably get a good start on paying for the Sony's that way. Oh. Well, so it looks like Josh will be staying here. So now I'm wondering just how long we'll be staying at the Frat House, because from what I've heard it sounds like the Chapter may be closing this spring. That Chapter has been in activity here on this campus since about 1862 or something but, and they have serious doubts if they'll make it to next year if they don't get enough people around. So it looks like we'll be apartment hunting before long. Only the way my jobs are changing every few months it should be a real bitch to try and keep up with it (ph). (coughing) Wow! Look at these.


THERAPIST: Well it's an odd time to be looking for them but I have to find my sunglasses.


PATIENT: Your sunglasses are right there by the phone.


THERAPIST: Ah, thanks. [inaudible at 0:02:57.4]... 


PATIENT: Wow! You must be as out of it as I am. (chuckling)


THERAPIST: I saw you blinking your eyes and it reminded me of this [inaudible at 0:03:05.7]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. No, I could be in an enclosed, dark, unlit closet right now and I'd probably still be [inaudible]... blinking without (ph) my eyes. I know I found out I start at work Friday, so I just said, "Hell with it." I plan on just sleeping and being up and moving around whenever it happens to come to me. Which shouldn't be strange, I'll be working a first shift, which means I'll have to get up about six o'clock in the morning or earlier.


THERAPIST: What is the job?


PATIENT: A stocker for a grocery warehouse.


THERAPIST: Oh.


PATIENT: And that's not bad. That pays about 760 a month. But also, I get time and a half for any overtime and I get double time for any weekend or holiday. Wow! You know the last job I had I, time and a half wasn't even possible, I couldn't even get that out of them, so this should start adding up. I got to pay you to get out of debt with this. (chuckling) Take a while even at that though. It looks like I'll be trying to go back to Boise, I don't know quite when though. If Josh goes ahead and gets his job today, he'll be moving up here and he'll probably go back sometime in the next week and a half, two weeks, just pack his stuff up and bring his car up here. And I'd like to go with him but I don't know if I can afford it. If I can scrape together the 30 bucks to get down there, why then hell, I'll, it's no sweat, I'll just drive back with him, and I can stay with these folks, [kind of keep it.] (ph) [0:04:50.5] But it's kind of strange, I really don't have much inclination to go to Boise anymore. (chuckles) I was just so bummed out last time I went there by all the people that I wanted to see and that supposedly were wanting to see me and I just said we'd get together and we'd go, "What you been doing?" "Nothing." "Yeah, I been doing the same thing." And we'd just sit around and twiddle our thumbs and do more nothing. So I said, there's still a bunch of things I got to get hold of back there so I'll probably go back, if I can just make it a weekend trip like that.


THERAPIST: Oh, it sounds like right now you'd just like to go and leave it there. [In other words] (ph) [0:05:31.5]...


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...in terms of people or anything... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...for you, it's sort of empty.


PATIENT: I've just been, it's been so long since I've been in Boise for any amount of time. I've been there once in the last six months almost, since, Jesus, since before October. A month before October, right about in the first half of it was when I was there last. And then I went once again in December. And the time that I went in December it was just a completely bummed out trip. And I don't know just, I feel bad about it kind of, because then it's like admitting that all the friendships that I had would still be bruised (ph) anymore but Jesus, they sure don't. I think the people have just changed that much and I just don't know them anymore. Undoubtedly, I'd probably still like most of them but it would mean I would have to be there long enough to know them again. I know the first (ph) things to happen more quickly here on campus than it does in other places, so when you're not around a person they seem, people seem to change. They're in a more rapid state of transition here on campus than they are, than I'm used to them being back in my part of the Midwest. And there are, yeah, I guess it's because this, is, well it's just the kind of the whole feeling of being around this college. Anybody that's going here and planning on graduating has really got a lot invested in their cookies (ph)...and they can't just turn away from it. And I'm not used to being around people that are that intense, into something like that. But wow, people around here are really strange. (chuckling)


THERAPIST: That's not just something you're witnessing but something that's really happened to you with the people here?


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure of it but, well I both witnessed it and known people that do change but, I mean, the guy that I felt closest to last summer, he and I were more or less best friends, neither one of us had anything to do so we both spent all summer stoned together. But it's really strange, he moved away in maybe October, November. I guess it was October, and but, he and I hardly have anything to say to each other anymore, not that we're, we're still friends and we still make a point to see each other every now and then but, I mean, we just don't have that much to say anymore. [0:08:33.8]


THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds sort of like an empty forum to get together now... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...because there's nothing... 


PATIENT: That's right. Even for the effect that now he's so busy that he doesn't have time for the pastimes we used have in common. And of course that's more of a superficial thing between us that he is busy now and I'm still not. But the change in attitudes in people seems to be just as rapid here. It's really interesting to see someone coming for their second or third year, especially their second year and then watch them change, because it seems like after you've been here for the four or five years, you've established your own brand of insanity so that you don't bother to change much after that, you've got your own little nick, so that you seem to function with, you don't have to change after that. But it really seems strange to see people kind of floating around, trying to find a comfortable way to be. They try and they kind of test out different attitudes and positions and see how they work with people.


THERAPIST: You're making it sort of sound like there's a very driven quality to where (ph) people do here. I don't know where it, got that from but. It's like the picture I got with everybody's always rushing and their attitudes rush as well as they do. [0:10:11.3]


PATIENT: Yeah. In some cases it might be conscious but I doubt that it is for the main part. Mostly they just, it's their attitudes and their positions on things seem to change, I mean, just of a necessity because they are changing so much in what they know, what they understand, what they've learned about and things like that. The more that they seem to learn, part of a course that day, they can in turn, turn it about and change their position as they look out at things. And I'm not sure that it's conscious that they want, that they're changing. In some cases it might be but I think that... (coughing) some cases I just don't understand it at all. There's a kid, when I first moved into the Frat House, he was kind of the first kid I felt close to. He was obviously a freak and that's one kind of person I've never had any trouble getting along with and so I kind of struck up a friendship with him. But I don't know what it is, for two months now he's been playing kind of a hermit game. Well for better than two months, there's not been ten words said between him and anybody else in the Frat. Nobody knows what's bothering him. Somebody said the other night they think he's just drunk or he's just, and it could be [except that he made his long time but he was crazy.] (ph) [0:11:49.8] In fact he used to philosophize a great deal on how to enjoy being crazy. But it's like normally I wouldn't expect that drastic a change to happen to a person, especially that quick. And up here it doesn't especially surprise me, it disappoints me, but it doesn't surprise me that a person could change that much. I often wonder whether I'm changing that much. Like when I go back to Boise I realize how different I am. I can see that, although the people I know back there are changed, they've still got the, the whole of them, they had a continuity and I kind of understood where they were all at, they all had their own different trips but they also all had kind of a communal thing. And I go back and of course, they could all change but the communal thing will pretty much stay the same game. And I go back and I kind of compared myself against that and it's gotten to the point anymore where it's changed. I've been gone long enough where I don't even understand it anymore. I don't know whether I've changed that much or it has. I'm sure it's both and probably mostly me. Well I've done an about face more times it seems like up here it since last January.


THERAPIST: How do you mean? [0:13:28.8]


PATIENT: Oh, with just, I'm fed up and disgusted and completely sure that the world's nothing but an absolute loss all the way through. There's no way it will ever get ahead and change back. And I know it can get better, it's just you have to crack your head open trying and then turn back around and say, "Well it's hopeless, there's no way of doing it." And it seems like I just kind of bounce back and forth on that.


THERAPIST: Where do you see yourself now or going, in what direction do you think it's going?


PATIENT: Well, I don't know right now. Like I am kind of in the position right now where I'm scared to even try and get into it, because I've got so many other things I've got to take care of, just in the in case. I do want to get an education. I do want to get a job. And I do want to get married and, etc., etc. And for right now I'm in the flux of changing jobs. And after a letter I got last night, evidently there's something awful fucked up between Jessica and I, and I'm not sure what that is yet. But I don't want to even bother to get myself into the depression of trying to figure out whether it's worth it to try or not. I'd rather just go ahead and try, get myself settled and then see if it's doing me some good. It's a lot easier to be depressed when I'm not starving or going into debt further.


THERAPIST: So like there's some sort of urgency to attend to immediate things and it's like, I don't know, putting it within some sort of philosophical framework... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...might be, well it would be a lot [coughing - inaudible at 0:15:26.6]... in itself but in a way it would be stupid. It feels like or like that's not what you need to be doing right now.


PATIENT: Right. Well not to mention that it's stupid or meaningless but that, well actually, but I know the decision on that could take precedence. Once I should've (ph) done it, deciding or having it, an answer mean something to me, could take precedence over these other things. And yet right now, I know just to continue functioning and keep rowing, whatever it is I've invested coming to New York a year ago and busting my ass for it since, is worth, I have to go ahead and do these other superficial things. And I don't know, it's like the way things have, it's kind of strange. A while back I got terribly depressed and because things seemed to be going wrong, for years they've been going wrong, (chuckling) the last fall for a while, I was really bummed out. And I have a feeling that if this keeps up, Jessica and I are in for some really bad problems. It will probably be a really depressing scene. So that's another reason I am rather expecting some hard times and I'd like to get in a position where at least, I don't have to worry about, I've got at least something going for me, the job. And luckily just out of the blue, Josh will probably be up here, so at least I'll have someone that I consider a brother. In other words, I want to get everything on my side because I, that I can, so that I can, it's kind of like doing battle with my own conscious or something like that, but I want to be able to at least safely, from my, from, look out at it from the viewpoint of I'm four to five behind a financially sound job and that I've got at least one friend, etc., etc.


THERAPIST: Yeah, it's on a [coughing - inaudible at 0:17:39.2]... some type, kind of going into training until you're like, feel (ph) to take on whatever is out there that you have to take on.


PATIENT: Right. It's, well it's, not so much training as getting armed.


THERAPIST: Oh.


PATIENT: It's more like an arms race. Like mentally right now, I could go into it and take it just as about as well as I ever could. Depression's always, well it's a depression but anymore I'm getting to the point where I don't even know whether they're real or not. Like sometimes I look at them and I go, "Well they're this world and this world isn't going to be but another 60 or 70 years anyway, so why worry about it." (therapist chuckling) Wow! That made sense didn't it? But at any rate, yeah, it's an arms race, would be a good way of putting it, because it's just trying to fortify the position, to be able to take on whatever it is that's causing conflict with me.


THERAPIST: What's this, the sad things that you're kind of expecting or that I hear you...?


PATIENT: With Jess?


THERAPIST: Oh, I wasn't clear whether it was with her or just in an overall sense?


PATIENT: No, it's with Jessica but it's the same that's happened with everybody else. And I've, I used to write letters with, about when I first moved up here, that with people, if they'd even, as much as they should love each other, if they're separate for long amounts of time, they become unreal to each other. We both change and we don't understand what the other one has changed to. So the thing that we're loving is still the person from a year ago and not the person from now, which makes it kind of unreal, kind of phony. And every time I've gone to Boise, maybe since the middle of last summer, I've had just a little less enthusiasm with going back because I'm a little more disappointed every time.


THERAPIST: Maybe? (ph) [0:19:56.1]


PATIENT: Until this last time I, well really, I just have almost a problem rationalizing an excuse to go back. There was just nothing that turned out like I'd hoped it would. And it's like, because I still love Jessica or at least what we had, it's almost that much reason for not going back, because I'm still in the position where, going back I could only spend a couple of days there. The folks would still throw my ass in jail if they knew I was around. And we would again, spend too little time together, no time alone. Be uptight over the circumstances that we had to be together, that something might go wrong, someone that shouldn't find out, would find out, etc., etc. And all we would do is sit around and be uptight with each other again.


THERAPIST: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it just, I mean, being alone isn't any fun but it's less painful than having it thrown in my face as being wrong. So I don't know, I'll be going back, I know I will and it's, the problem is I won't be going back expecting a good time now. I'll be going back knowing that I've got work to do to try and keep whatever we've got left going, and try and kind of fortify the relationship. I didn't know whether it would work.


THERAPIST: Well it's that (ph) one thing that occurs to me. It's like it takes a lot of time to try and find out where each other is before you can move on to...reconstitute... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...the thing and how you are now, and like, you don't have that kind of time.


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: Or what time you have, it's like you have to be vigilant and looking over your shoulder the whole time.


PATIENT: Exactly. Every time we get together, we have to relearn each other and we never have time to do that, to...we barely learned to be around each other for that short amount of time, leave alone to be able to continue the relationship when we're separated again for long enough a time. And it's finally getting to the point now, where we are so far apart that we don't even learn to be comfortable around each other while we're there, leave alone when we're separated again. And I've been aware of this kind of happening in the back of my head for a long time now. I didn't know whether she was or not, so I kind of quit harping on it, oh, no long after I moved up here. And just the other night she wrote me a letter to the kind of same effect, that she had realized that we weren't communicating like we used to. And it's because we aren't communicating with who we think we were and therefore, we don't know how to like we used to. And it's the first time I've seen that she was ever aware of it and [phone ringing - inaudible at 0:22:58.1]... 


THERAPIST: Excuse me.


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: - Hello. Yes. Yeah, I don't have...the books right now but I'm sure that we're continuing it this quarter and I think we have some in right now, so that if you need some, just put in the request to one of our doctors. Well, yeah, in this, you got mine when you asked for it before, right? Yeah, it would be a good idea, just so we know that you want it again and what the amount is. Okay? Bye-bye. - We've got this fund that a couple of us set up and it really works well. It's like people, just students, just give money if they have any extra from their fellowship and people who need it just ask for it. And yeah, it's real, like really crazy but a lot of people have gotten some funds to help them try to...get through things. And...it makes my mouth drop, because things like that just don't work, right? (both chuckling)


PATIENT: You want to bet?


THERAPIST: All this comes up you don't see. [inaudible at 0:24:15.9]... so excuse me. Does the phone bother you?


PATIENT: No.


THERAPIST: It often will ring during an hour.


PATIENT: Oh no, that doesn't bother me at all. It's kind of a new... [inaudible at 0:24:24.8]... I don't even know if that's a word but... 


THERAPIST: I know.


PATIENT: ...I have a vocabulary that's completely flexible. I can throw any two words together or make a word into something that really doesn't exist but I enjoy that kind of thing, it just keeps the excitement up, (chuckling) to see what happens. It's like often times, when the whole world doesn't make sense to me, and I know I'm crazy and I know that it really isn't even real, I'm just tied up in some asylum somewhere and all of this, is my illusion, because I'm tied up and sitting in the corner of some padded cell and I just go, "Well, that's sure enough the way it causes this, so I guess there's no reason to ever get upset about anything. Just set here and let them put on a show for me." (chuckling) I've known people that would fall back into things like that. Like, I think it was my cousin one time, was telling me that he was walking down the street and he found a nickle. And as he bent down to pick it up he found another one. So he stood up, started to walk away and found another one. And it kind of got him a little confused and he scratched his head. He was almost scared to look and sure enough, there was another one. And he was, he told me that at the time, he was telling himself, "All right, any time now, I'll wake up and I'll be chained to a wall somewhere." And it's strange, I've never that happen to me. I've been stoned out on acid sometimes and I'll say that...like, "I've blown, so I'm going to be crazy for the rest of my life now or I'll be stoned the rest of my life." Or something like that but, actual, I've never been separated from reality, so far as to think that...I wasn't here, I mean I was somewhere else. I wish I was but. (both chuckling)


THERAPIST: You mean like, there's something attractive to thinking, well maybe attractive isn't the right word, but something sort of attractive about being able to sit off and observe the whole thing going on and not feeling that you have to participate in it?


PATIENT: It's a factor of safety, where if the involvement isn't real then the pain can't be either.


THERAPIST: Like being insulated and... [0:27:14.3]


PATIENT: Right. But I have found that I can be objective about the world in exactly the same way and still be a part of it. It's like, if I, and I meant that quite seriously, what I said a little bit ago. I'll only be here 60 or 70 more years anyway, so why worry about it. Anything that can happen to me has probably happened to somebody else at some time or another anyway. So I just don't imagine that there's any way I could end up bothering (ph) man. (chuckling) I've already had more than many people have in their lifetime.


THERAPIST: Well it sounds like some, what you called objectivity or something, it's some sort of perspective that, or that puts things... 


PATIENT: Right, that's exactly it.


THERAPIST: ...in places where, that prevent you from doing a certain kind of worrying or a certain kind of carrying yourself though.


PATIENT: Kind of. In fact that's what, Matt (ph), this person that has become quite isolationist, quite an isolationist. I used to collect quotes, I still do but I mean, I haven't done it lately, I haven't run across any lately to collect. But one of my favorites was one that Matt would, he and I used to talk like a lot, and he once told me that, he was one of the few people that like I would admit to being crazy. And I've done it for years for kind of a double purpose. One, so that if I ever do anything that's crazy, I can always go, "Well I told you so." And not have to worry about it. And two, if I ever want to, I never have to worry about having to act sane, where other people have to do something that's supposedly sane. I still in all honesty, I don't consider myself crazy. Crazy to me is where I am uncomfortable with what's in my head. And crazy to other people might be when I'm uncomfortable with them.


THERAPIST: Yeah.


PATIENT: But, and so I am very likely crazy to most people. (chuckling) But Matt and I were talking one night and he said something to the effect of, "The thing to remember about being crazy..." He said, "You have to keep the whole thing in some kind of perspective. And as long as you understand where you're at or understand a little bit of where you're looking from or where you want to look from, you can always be sheltered...in some way or another, or at least, you can always feel that you are in some way or another." [0:30:02.2]


THERAPIST: That kind of makes it sound like that, kind of an overall view to provide some sort of framework and you can go walking... 


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: ...around within it, no matter or whatever way you want to, but there's something firm, comfortable, maybe no comfortable but, something stable in having... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...that framework.


PATIENT: Yeah, I have kind of two different views of philosophy. And it's, I compare them to the quantum [and the wave theory] (ph) [0:30:35.3], And it's like, I see a structure and I see a fluidity and they seem to never, you can never make them together, put them together. And I see the structured society that we live in now and it really racks me up, like it makes me dislike structured society. But I see a fluid society and I can't understand how it would ever work. In the first place, people just, well we just aren't fluid, even in our own, our memory is a structuring that we cannot seem to surpass, there's no way we could have a fluid memory. And it's like, preferably, I wish we could be fluid, because if a person is completely in a fluid state, why then it means that not only can they accept any shape, etc., ideas, activity or something like that, but also, they could accept anyone else's. But there's too many positions where the structuring would have to, there would have to be some kind of structuring, at some point or another, to make things work between people.


THERAPIST: Oh, yeah.


PATIENT: And it's kind of like the perspective is how far I can be fluid. Like the larger the perspective... 


THERAPIST: The more room you have for it?


PATIENT: ...the more room I have to be fluid and the safer I am, in a way, but also, the more detached I am. Like if I say, "Well nothing here is going to make any difference in 100 years anyway to me." Why, I've got a lot of room to be fluid. But also, that means that I haven't got much room to enjoy myself, because there's no sense of pleasure from achievement, from physical pleasures or anything like that. And that's where I'm going to be hypocritical of myself, (chuckling) which I often am, but usually, when I find myself being that, I try to avoid it. Which means that I kind of have the prerogative of changing myself, constantly. I was talking with a friend the other night and we were mentioning, we both have always, I don't know how it came up but, in the course of the conversation we both picked up our fingers and quoted something about Kamoa (ph) I believe it was, that, "He opened his heart to the benign indifference of the universe." And we both said that we really liked that quote.


THERAPIST: That's from [inaudible at 0:33:36.0]... I think.


PATIENT: I believe it is. But we also said that somehow or another we didn't want to believe in it. That we hoped there was a little more than just complete random in the universe. And a little bit later, yeah, he apologized to me for a couple of days before having borrowed a couple of my albums. And I said, "Well don't bother about it...don't bother apologizing because you didn't damage it." And he says, "Well that's beside the point, it's the principle of the thing." And I said, "Well just like at times, I can accept the randomness of the universe and at other times I can't." There are times when I can quibble over principles and other times ignore them. And at the same time there is points when I can, in my perspective, I can say, "Well it all doesn't make sense." And ignore pain, and then be hypocritical of myself and go, "Well, wow! Here I am." And I've got to make the best of it so that I can enjoy a situation. It's like I haven't, yeah, I have the prerogative of where I want to be on a situation and it's my advantage because I get to decide how close I want to let pain get to me and how close I want to let the pleasure get to me. And I often wondered that if that position, because the fluidity of it, is there any real basis for it? If I can be that flexible, am I really coming from anywhere?


THERAPIST: Like if there's some sort of stable core?


PATIENT: Well is there a stable core?


THERAPIST: That's what I mean.


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: You're (ph) acting?


PATIENT: Right. And wow! Like I freaked over that a lot of times. (chuckling) I just don't know. I've kind of decided that trying to figure out an infinity is just the one thing that isn't within the realm of a finite being.


THERAPIST: Well when you're talking about this, does that mean that there is a [inaudible at 0:35:44.8]... sounds kind of like good luck. Do you mean that you wonder whether there's a stable core that's you or whether there's a stable, some more philosophical kind of concern?


PATIENT: Oh, definitely a philosophical concern. Like when I talk in those senses, to me an emotion is far more real than the chair or a desk.


THERAPIST: Oh?


PATIENT: Because a chair and a desk have little to do with the things that I'm dealing with. And I've been freaked out enough on that kind of a trip, where I pay attention to people and the things that go through their heads, more than even what I see of them. And like about this time last year, I was just getting into that. I was, it was when I was, I'd just finally hit the street really good and I was just stoned constantly, and I was into a little bit of this speed rap of all that kind of stuff. And then I used to drive around and see, well the case that I remember most, was driving down the street and I saw an old lady and she was just really gorgeous. I mean, she was just a pretty, little, old lady. And I thought, "Wow!"..."That's really beautiful." And everybody goes, "God! That ugly old lady is in those rags!" And it shocked me that they should say that or that, that's what the situation was, because I hadn't even realized that. It was just a little, old lady and she was a human being so it was cool, like I really dug her. It's kind of like to that extent, that it's like it's my ideas are coming from different positions, different, my head is a different situation. And if I can be on one place at one time and then in another at another, is there a structure that is me and I'm moving in that structure? Or am I at those different positions and therefore, I am not a solid, real, well I'm not a stationary thing at any rate, because I can change to anything I want. In other words, I'm wondering if they're both me, inside of the structure or whether they're two different me's.


THERAPIST: Okay, and given that the second one's true, what effect does that have on you? [0:38:29.8]


PATIENT: I don't know. Like, if there are two different me's, then I'm not aware of it, I don't think.


THERAPIST: No? (ph)


PATIENT: I've considered it but never very [chuckling] especially (ph). Because it always seemed that, the only way it made sense to me was through a continuum of time, where I have kind of a, since I was like 11 years old, I've had kind of a philosophy that, from one day to the next, I'm a different person. I may be an evolved, I may have come from the person I was yesterday.


THERAPIST: [inaudible at 0:39:13.7]... 


PATIENT: I have a lot in common but whatever I've learned, experienced and grown from then, why then I've evolved that much from what I used to be. And the only thing that would make sense to me, if there were two separate people between here and here, is that there is a continuum line that goes from here to here, through time. And I'll, but since you can't go back through time, we may be two different people here and here, but there was a connecting link.


THERAPIST: So if you're not or if your processes aren't kind of enfolded within one big structure, you still feel some sort of, I don't know if continuity is the right word but, connection is the right word.


PATIENT: Yeah, there's a connection. Even if it's broken immediately by the passage of time...infinitely finite amount of time, set next to each other, two different people but they're that close to each other. Yeah, that's kind of trippy little thing. I used to get into that quite a bit then (ph). Now I was mentioning a little while ago that, desk and chair is sometimes going to be, seem less real to me than an emotion.


THERAPIST: Yeah?


PATIENT: And I remember one time, I freaked out on acid they say, it wasn't the very bad one, I mean, I didn't get hauled off to the hospital this time like I did the first time. But I remember I had, I did some nitrous oxide and [we were doing crunches and just] (ph) multi...[inaudible at 0:41:13.6]... came back. And I remember as I came back, seeing the people in a, [how can we say it?] (ph) Like necessarily not a person, because people are what we are here, but a spirit of life that is something before or outside of being human, and that to communicate, we are willing to put up with all of the fronts, the right down to being human, having to put up with life, living and dying and all of the pain that goes with it and all of that, merely so that we can communicate. In other words, all of this could very possibly be something that we've all agreed we'll put up with...like for me to be able to communicate with you, why then, we'll go through the male and female being in a position where we have to lie and die and all of the rest of this crap. Whereas otherwise, we are just an entity, isolated in itself with, and we haven't learned how to communicate, merely one entity to another yet. It's kind of like, in that what I'm talking, the benign indifference in the world and I hope it isn't. I think I mentioned before, that I really don't have any faith in any structured religion that I know of now. But I'm kind of an ecology freak. I like to watch things evolve, I'm super aware of. If I go to a concert, I watch the crowd evolve. As the night progresses I watch the young kids go home, people settle down. I watch the influence of the crowd as a whole, as they communicate and make contact with the groups that play. And I've also been thinking a lot about kind of the evolution of the human race. That once we got started, we had to evolve to this point, to a natural sense of evolution where, the physically best that describe (ph) have. But we've gotten to a point now where we can almost control our natural surroundings to that extent. And it strikes me now that the point that's going to start happening is that we'll have a mental evolution, where people that can't get their shit together, that always end up in some kind of a power game, and that's another philosophy, that people that are uptight, that have hangups, to me, seem to always be the ones that end up in some kind of a power game, politics or something like that. It's like that's the way they have to make themselves feel secure in the world.


THERAPIST: I was laughing because my husband and I were talking last, we're listening to some record that we got about the 1960s, and we were listening to part of it and we heard Nixon back in the early '60s when he had lost another election, heard him talking. And he looked at me and I looked at him and we agreed that the guy was [inaudible at 0:44:51.5]... and we...we thought, I mean, not making a critical judgment but like, practice meant precedence (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: And so what you're saying, that touched that off and it's... 


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: ...made from a [inaudible at 0:45:01.5]... 


PATIENT: That strikes me as so true, that the vast majority of people [inaudible voice in background]... that are really involved in that kind of thing, are there for their sake, because that's where they have to be, that's where they're coming from. And I've noticed that the people that I really dig, the vast majority of them are the kind that go, that are kind of, have you ever read Kakeeley (ph)?


THERAPIST: You mean, yeah.


PATIENT: Well he had kind of a philosophy where he just says, "Fuck it. Turn your back on it and do your thing if you want." And that's where the people that really make sense to me are coming from, not completely. I don't like [inaudible at 0:45:42.4]... that way, because I feel like I have to be active and do my part, just to set myself and the way I want to be from the people that love to play power games. But the people that play power games are the ones that end up structuring government, starting wars and things like that.


THERAPIST: [I know, I think.] (ph) [0:46:00.6]


PATIENT: And I was thinking that in an evolution of mankind, it's getting to a point where those people and stupid people, and I don't think they're one in the same, they may be, but especially, those warlike people. I'm wondering now, if we can manage to develop a system where those people will weed themselves out? And if it is possible to weed them out or are they something that's going to forever spring anew? Because it means not only that we'll have to develop a system where they can have their wars and leave me alone. But it also means that I can raise my kids to be in a position where they're not going be wanting to play power games. And I was just wondering, it seems that the more people get together, the more open, the more real they are to each other. And it's kind of like we're working toward that point, where entities don't have to be, where entities can start communicating. And I'm almost, it's like watching God develop supposedly. It's like I can see a point when everybody will be, now this, isn't a real point but I mean it's like, if I were to walk three steps east I'd be going toward China, but it's like, when everybody would almost be as one, because everybody functions as one, you're all on kind of the same trip. You are individuals, you have your own life, you have a privacy to say it, but you all understand, I don't know whether they say worship, but to live the same kind of life and philosophies. You've evolved after all these years and found that these are the ones that work. But like I said, I'm not enough of the ecology, you have to start on the evolution of human races or those intelligent races, to know whether that would work. I hope we don't all get wiped out before it does. (chuckling) I'd like to see the day. I don't expect to, but I hope somebody does. And that's where I was talking about benign indifference. That's something that scares me to death, is that I believe in a life/death/life type, if not in this world, in another. I think that the life, the spirit, continues in some form or another. And something that scared me, the thing that freaked me out that time when I did that nitrous oxide, was that there was no purpose to it. It just was an intimate thing, it continued forever and all people ever did was, and the only thing to find purpose in was the immediate present, which is forever going by, which made it seem useless to me. [0:49:07.3] It's like, in a, because I exist now, I will always exist, and yet I have no bounds, no goals, no, nothing to look forward to. And it scared the hell out of me, it really did. It's like, I couldn't even kill myself and help, because I was just going somewhere else. But it, I was, and being stoned out as I was, it scared me to death. Not only that, but I decided there was also the possibility that we were inherently bad, that we were kind of the effect, we were the culmination, we were caused, we were created, by the bad habits or the evil in another dimension, and that scared me to death. It seems like we spend our entire lives trying to catch up to our self. And I remember one time, I had kind of an image, a long time ago, this...in my head that, of a little boy, his father says something to him as he turned around and started to run to say something. And I see these waves kind of fly out of his foot, black and white and everything turns black and white waves kind of throbbing around him and then it's just turns absolutely black infinity. And I don't know why it comes from his foot, but what had happened is, he's forgotten what was his father had told him to do and we are the cause of that. But even that made sense to me in a way. I could, like that wouldn't bother me too much. Because if that were the point then eventually, we would evolve to where we would remember and (making noise) we'd disappear but the kid would go on his way. I don't know what he amounts to but it means that our universe would end. And even if it just ended in him achieving remembering, why then it came to a good end to me. It's kind of like, he would be the God of this existence but we would at least come to the effect of doing some good. This, is all pretty weird but it's like, it's like the insane thing that happens when you freak out on acid, believe it. But it's all symbolic in one way or another to me, of many different things. [0:51:27.4]


THERAPIST: Yeah, I have the feeling that...like I don't catch all of it but I do catch like this overall sense that there are a lot of personal meanings connected with it.


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: I don't know what they are and I don't even know if you need to...tell me, unless you want to, but I... 


PATIENT: I'm not sure I do. I don't doubt that the little boy forgetting has some, like I feel in me somewhere that, that I wish I'd understood. There are many things that I do wish I understood but for some reason or another, I almost wonder if that isn't something that's happened to me that left a great impression on me or maybe didn't leave a great enough impression to remember, but somehow caught that, was ended up being used there. I have a lot of very strange fantasies like that. The first time I ever freaked out on acid, was really a bad one. I got awfully scared, awfully stoned. And I took something like four hits of...three hits of acid. And somehow it started putting a rap on my head about, I had mentioned I was with civil service. They said, "Do you have to take a lie detector test?" And if I was straight I'd have just said, "No, I knew I didn't." But it scared the hell out of me. And I'd never taken one before and I started having these visions of people sticking needles in my brains and twisting me around and crushing me into these [inaudible at 0:52:54.6]... it scared the hell out of me and finally I freaked out. And I don't remember about two hours, except for fantastically perspective changed positions. Like I remember the cops beating the hell out of me because I was fighting. I had took off all of my clothes. I couldn't understand and I was getting more and more scared and I didn't know what was wrong. And finally I just blew it completely and I said, "Fuck it." Kind of, and I just ripped off all my clothes and went out and sat down. And like it made sense, it really did. If they'd have left me alone I'd of probably made it, just cool enough. Because it was the most sensical (ph) thing I'd done. I just gave up everything and said, "Fuck it." And I was going to just sit there until I got straight. And I can't say that I consciously did it that way but I'm sure... 


THERAPIST: [inaudible at 0:53:42.0]... 


PATIENT: ...that was kind of why I did it. I just got fed up and decided to get back to the basic of nature. And the thing is I could, because clothes were symbolizing things to me that I didn't understand. Rings on my fingers I didn't understand them. Even, the only way I could have gotten more naked is if it was to shave. I took everything off. And the cops decided that they just couldn't let somebody do that. And I can understand why. I mean, (chuckling) it upset them pretty much, in Boise, Idaho.


THERAPIST: Yeah.


PATIENT: So they came up and as they hauled me off I gave them quite a bit of trouble and they beat hell out of me, and I remember small parts of it. But I came to in the hospital and I remember, they completely blacked me out on thorazine. And I've kind of learned that there's, well because of that, if there's one thing that scares me, it's being unconscious, when I'm ripped. That's why, when I kind of just momentarily passed out on that nitrous oxide, I freaked out again. I realized that's what had happened, too. That I got so stoned that everything just kind of went (making noise) and all of these infinities of possibilities came into me and scared me to death. But I woke up in the hospital room and I, at first, thought I had died. And I remember little bits and parts of it and I can see why I thought that, because much of what had gone through my head while I was unconscious, it was like a [bar dose aid] (ph) [0:55:14.8], like a Tibetan bow (ph) for the dead, going through the [bar dose] (ph) stages. I'm not sure they were in an orbit but much of it reminded me of it.


THERAPIST: Okay.


PATIENT: And I woke up and at first I thought I'd died and then I decided, "No, I'm alive but I'm in the wrong dimension, I'm going through." And I decided maybe 20 years of my life, up to that point, had been nothing but a, like a fever dream, because I'd been in a car accident and I was in an emergency ward and I was just coming out of a coma, and I didn't even remember this life. And I was scared of it, I didn't want to go into a life that I didn't know. So I tried to go back and I couldn't understand how to, I opened my eyes and saw a light and just looked at it, when these things flashed through my mind a billion miles a minute. And I decided, "I got to go back." But I couldn't figure out how to make a light come out of my head, forget it, close my eyes and go back through. In the first place, I didn't know what light it was. I didn't know that it was something that I'd remembered before. And even to this day, I often wonder if this world was real before then, if maybe I existed but did I exist as I do now? Maybe I was born into this world with a 20-year history and a memory of it. And that's how real things like that can get to be to me. Like I can, it's where I can change my perspective right now and say, "Sure, I know I was here." [You know what I mean?] (ph) [0:56:57.3] I've seen evidence of it. I read things that I wrote in fifth grade. But I can still say, "Yeah, maybe I was here." And change my perspective and say, "Wow! Like I was born when I was 20 years old." But it was really strange to try and figure out how to go backward in my mind. I could never do it. And I remember finally, after oh, hours and hours of really insane, crazy things like that, and kind of scary, but I'm not sure I was as much scared then, just completely confused. I didn't know, I still didn't know how to act. I was still awfully stoned and the thorazine was zonking me out to boot. Well the police didn't want to arrest me, they just turned me over to the hospital. The hospital didn't want anything to do with me but once they got me wiped out they knew that the hospital room wasn't exactly the best place for me. And I slugged a doctor while I was there. I just apologized my brains out to him I remember, as soon as I hit him. In fact, I didn't even remember that for several days or I would have gone back to him the next day and apologized straight. But I wanted to get outside. I knew that there was something going on outside that involved me, outside the room. And I knew I was in an emergency room even, after a little bit, because I used to work for a hospital and I recognized the tubes and bottles hanging around. But he wouldn't let me out. And he opened the door and started to walk out himself and I hit him in the stomach. And I don't think I hit him very hard because, it scared me, [inaudible at 0:58:41.3]... I didn't want to do that. And I swung at him and he turned around and gave me a terrible look. And it scared me that, both that I'd evidently hurt him because he's so little, and because I knew I had done something that I shouldn't and I just fell all over myself apologizing and telling him, "God, I just wanted to get out." So he turned me over to two little chicks. Jessica, who was all of 15 or 16 then, and Carmen, who was 15. So two 15 year old girls walk in, tell them they know me and they didn't. "Take him." So I went stumbling out and I knew I still had to get back, I was still tripped that I had gone through a gap somewhere, that I wasn't where I was supposed to be, that I was supposed to be at a pop festival. So I wondered around and I decided, this place was only about two miles from the festival, what I'd do is walk back there and find my friends, and I'd bet I'd find me there and we'd (making noise) zap right back together. So I started walking and the thorazine got to me, I couldn't walk very well, and I only walked five or six blocks. I just decided, "Well what I'll do is I'll lay down and go to sleep." And I recognized things and I thought, "Wow, man! I've got a memory, here. I'll bet if I walk to where here, if I walked here, to where I was, I think I was with this memory, then I'll be where I was in the other world." So I was going to walk back to where it was. Well I was too tired, so I laid down and I thought, "What I'll do is I'll go to sleep." And I know I'm with all my friends, are standing around my body, wondering what's wrong with me. And if I go to sleep, why the acid will ware off and I'll wake up in the other place. Well I couldn't get to sleep either. And all this time these two girls are following me around and I wouldn't pay any attention to them. So I decided to walk back to the hospital because that's where I came through the dimension, maybe I could find out... 


THERAPIST: Where's your stuff?


PATIENT: ...find there and try and get back again. Although all the time, I realized that if I couldn't even un-see the light go backward, I'd never be able to forget walking five blocks, go back and all of the things that had happened in-between. So as we were walking back, I said something... 


THERAPIST: [inaudible at 1:00:47.6]... 


PATIENT: Okay.


THERAPIST: Finish this [inaudible]... 


PATIENT: I said something to Jessica. She turned to me and mentioned that Carmen was back there, shouldn't we wait for her? And I said, "You can." And I kind of chuckled. And she grabbed me by the arm and she said, "Come on, we should wait for Carmen." And when she grabbed me by the arm, and I know it wasn't the first physical contact we'd had, it wasn't the first time she'd touched me, but this was the first time I realized she was real. And I turned around and said, "You're not a hallucination!" And I decided then that, "Well here's somebody that I love, at least in this world, so maybe I'll just go on with her." And I didn't, I both realized then that I was here to stay and that also, this, is where I'd come from. (chuckling) But it's like a couple of times since, I'll (making noise) do something like that, I'll just wonder, "Have I killed myself and gone into another place again, with new a new memory." Things like that. And freaking out is kind of what that is to me. Because I'd like to think that I've finished a life somewhere... (beginning to sound emotional)


THERAPIST: Oh.


PATIENT: ...before I go onto another one. And that's where that fantasy comes from. (sniffing loudly) (chuckling) Wow! I was so tired when I got up I was wondering if I'd be able to talk this time. I was so zonked out last time we came in here, I was kind of [inaudible at 1:02:13.2]... 


THERAPIST: Okay, now we're at... 


PATIENT: Okay, now I'll be working next week because I start work Friday. And I'm supposed to work from 7:30 to 4:00. And I work 100 miles more than [inaudible at 1:02:26.5]... from what he tells me, clear out, I'm at 17th street [inaudible]... someone. So I probably won't be getting back until, geeze, I probably wouldn't get back here until 5:30 or 6:00.


THERAPIST: [plane flying overhead - inaudible at 1:02:47.3]... 


PATIENT: [I could call you through the weekend, after work each day if you could] (ph) [inaudible still]... 


THERAPIST: Okay, yeah, why don't you do that. I can [inaudible still]... I don't know about other days. I'll give you a slip just for a Tuesday and then we can follow with... 


PATIENT: Okay. And I've still got your home number.


THERAPIST: Okay. [still inaudible at 1:03:17.0]... but that's too bad. (chuckling)


PATIENT: [still inaudible]... One of these days I'm going to have to listen to some of these tapes since (ph) I'm sure I could.


THERAPIST: Okay.


PATIENT: It should be very creative (ph). (chuckling)


THERAPIST: I don't know.


PATIENT: Oh! And that rap that I just went through, it's really strange, because I had thoroughly convinced [at one point] (ph) that what the fantasy's saying to her is what seemed to be the fantasies that I kind of half believed in. He was at one time, telling me that he probably believed more in that than what other people would say. It was interesting just to see how much other people could understand, whether that could possibly make sense or not. I've found several people that really got into it. (chuckling) Well, I'll call you this weekend hopefully.


THERAPIST: Okay.


PATIENT: Thank you.


THERAPIST: Bye-bye.


PATIENT: Yeah.


THERAPIST: Okay.


[1:04:44.0]


END TRANSCRIPT
