TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is Client Number 1923-018, Client 1923-018, Session Number 5.
PATIENT: I went out and spent a whole bunch of money (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: For a coat?
PATIENT: No, I have a coat. But I got one-two pantsuits-one's got a grey pair of slacks and one's got a red pair of slacks. I was getting very bored with them. The only thing I had to wear, except my Levi's. So I went out and I bought a dress which I needed badly because I was thinking about going looking for jobs and looked in my closet and realized I really didn't have anything to wear. I bought three pantsuits and a new dress.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: It really wasn't too bad because I got three pantsuits and a dress and all together cost me eighty dollars. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it was a really a pleasure to spend money on yourself and buy clothes. 
PATIENT: Well, it is because I usually don't do that. I wouldn't have been able to do it all except I've got a Sears charge card. But I've been saying I'm going to go out and get something new, I'm going to go out and get something new. But then I get so depressed when I go shopping because the things that I like don't look good on me or I just can't find anything I like. Things I like don't look good on me or they're too tight or something and I get real depressed. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: But, I didn't run into that problem this time for some reason. I'm not sure why. I found four things that I liked right off the bat-around five things-and they all looked good on me. One of them was a little tight and I thought I wasn't going to spend the money. One dress-I did buy-the one dress that I-I only found two dresses that I liked and one of them was a little tight in the hips so I didn't get it. The other one was really not worth the money I paid for it, but I liked it. I have to do some alterations on it and everything. I've wanted something almost like it. It was really not worth twenty-four dollars at all-not even here. I got it for twelve and that wasn't marked down. That was the price of it. I like it. I think it looks nice and I like it a lot and I only paid twelve dollars. I was really surprised.
COUNSELOR: It makes you feel good to wear it because it looks good on you...
PATIENT: And that's another thing I was really surprised. I can usually tell if something looks good on me or not. I'm a pretty good judge of what looks good and what doesn't. I think they all looked fairly well, too. They may not make me look like I'm a size twelve or a size ten, but nothing can do that. But they look nice on the size and it felt like it wasn't designed for a small person and they just made it larger. It was designed for a larger person. So, I was really happy about that. And the eighty dollars didn't bother me. It hasn't bothered me yet-that's what worries me. I'm usually more conservative. Because I haven't gone shopping-I have to make myself go shopping and-which saves me a lot of money, but...
COUNSELOR: That's right...
PATIENT: Usually when I-but when I go out shopping, I go out and a buy a lot of stuff and I guess (inaudible 3:28) and I went job-hunting today and...
COUNSELOR: Didn't have much luck?
PATIENT: No, no, no. I didn't really like to hunting for interviews.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I went to Illinois State Civil Service-I went to the Federal Civil Service Commission, I went to the State, the City and the County. The County couldn't do a thing for me. The State, I was-probably could have done something, but I had to take a test and it took three hours so I didn't have time to do it today.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I'll do it-I'm going to go back probably next Friday to take the test. I had the hardest time getting out of the house this morning. It was like one of those bad dreams that I keep having where I can never get anyplace that I have to-you know, I'll-like I'm-I used to have them when I was in high school. I wanted to go to school, you know, I'd get up in the morning and I'd rush around and do this or that and I'd get out the door and realize that I didn't have my clothes on, I couldn't go out yet. So I had to go back and put my clothes on. And then I'd walk out the door and realize I forgot my books and go back and walk-go out and be halfway down the street and have to come back because I forgot something else.
 Well, this morning I got up-first of all I got up late. And then I had to hem up these pants because I'm short and I had to buy them too long. I didn't get a chance to do that last night because I had to do something else. And it just seems like it took forever to do that. I was hurrying up and I was hurrying up getting dressed and I finally go on my way and I was going to take the train. I was stop at the co-op and catch a train-I was going to drive my car down to the train and then drive it back down because it was going to be cold tonight and I didn't want to walk all that way. And I got down to the co-op and I had my checkbook but I was out of checks. I had to go all the way back to my apartment and get new checks. So then I decided I'd drive down because it would waste less time. And so then I went to (ph 5:21 Mr. G's) to cash a check and I had to stand in line and wait to cash the check. This was like-by the time I got there and got anything done it was eleven-thirty and I was so afraid somebody was going to, you know-that they like you to be there early for jobs. I was so afraid somebody was going to say "Where have you been? Why are you so late?" So I was going to lie and tell them I had to work this morning. 
COUNSELOR: (chuckles)
PATIENT: But the Federal Government gave me this book thing to fill out and send them. I really don't know what I'm looking for so I'm not too much help. I mean, I have ideas of what I'd kind of like to go into, but I really don't know if I'm qualified for it or what is available or anything else. 
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But I was looking through the newspaper because I kind of want to stay in research but I don't know-I've got experience in accounting.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 6:23)
PATIENT: And so I can be an accountant if I wanted to. I was walking around downtown because I thought maybe it would be kind of neat to work down there.
COUNSELOR: Downtown in one of those buildings?
PATIENT: I thought that would be kind of neat. I don't know. If I get a job with maybe if I get a job like with the FBI.
COUNSELOR: Hm.
PATIENT: I might be able to get transferred to some other town or something, which has good points and bad points. It would be a chance to get out of New York. I'm not sure though, that moving to some other town-I'm pretty much sure that moving to some other town is not going to change-is not going to make that much of a change...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: ...in me.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It-just having a chance to start all over again. My personality will probably be the same. And at least here...
COUNSELOR: It's more your personality than the place.
PATIENT: ...right, yeah, that's what it is. And at least here I've got a lot of people that I know and in Idaho I don't know anybody-unless I could talk somebody into moving there with me. 
COUNSELOR: So you'd have to start to make friends from scratch if you moved.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I don't do that very well. So I've thought about that. But going to a new town would also be kind of interesting. I was raised in a little town. The only other place I've ever been is here, where I went to college. 
COUNSELOR: Exciting to see a new place.
PATIENT: Yeah-not that I'd want to go to California. It's not safe out there. Earthquakes and everything. It's just not safe. I don't think I'd like to be near an earthquake. I'm really in a good mood today, though, because Alicia-my girlfriend Alicia and I are going down to (Rush Street ph 8:16) tonight.
COUNSELOR: Oh (inaudible 8:17).
PATIENT: All kinds of unattached males running around down there.
COUNSELOR: Clubbing?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's where the "swingers" go. The ones who think they're swingers anyway. Alicia's getting tired of the 123 which is where we used to go which I like the people there and everything, but I get tired of only going there and I want to go other places. But I can't go by myself and I don't have anybody else to go with because the only other person I can go with is my best friend Meg. Except I can't go with her because she's married and her husband frowns on such things (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And she feels-not really-he doesn't really care. If he's working on a (inaudible 8:58) he wouldn't care if she went down to Rush Street with me but it puts her in a bad position and she's uncomfortable about it and everything else, you know. 
 But Alicia's decided she's tired of hanging around the 123, so get out and meet some different people. I'm trying to really psych myself into being relaxed, but I'm excited about it because I haven't been down there in a long time. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're going to a new place and you've just got some new clothes.
PATIENT: Right. And I wasn't (inaudible 9:32) my hair last time-it's all curly and everything. And I really feel good, you know. But I know I'm going to start to clutch later on and I...
COUNSELOR: When you actually get there, you'll walk into the bar and start to get a little nervous and think "Well..."
PATIENT: I don't start to get nervous right at first. I walk in and if I think I really look good and I'm in a good mood I'll walk in there and I feel fine-I feel good-I feel like I look all right and everything. And then you sit there for awhile and that's when I start being depressed.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. You sit there and wait and no one comes over and you...
PATIENT: And you start to think "Well, here we go again." And it's just-it's not so bad when I'm with Alicia because I can talk to her. We usually have a fairly good time together. But then what happens is as long as she and I are together and we're talking and I can keep myself up and quit thinking well we're just sitting her talking and we've been here for a half an hour and there's ten jillion guys around here and nobody's asked us to dance. I can keep my mind from thinking about things like that. If I can just say I don't really care. We were out last Saturday night and I didn't really care. And we had a good time and finally just telling myself I don't really care, that we're having a good time and everything. That I'll be all right-until somebody asked Alicia to dance.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And there I sit. She won't even-she won't...
COUNSELOR: Tapping your fingers on the table...
PATIENT: Yeah. Shifting uncomfortably and not really knowing what to look at, you know.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: If I just-I feel kind of funny if I just kind of look around at the people. But there's really nothing wrong with that, but I feel funny. I feel like I'm looking for something and everybody knows I'm looking for something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [11:43]
PATIENT: And if I sit there and stare at the table, that even looks dumber. 
COUNSELOR: As though everyone can see that you aren't dancing with anyone. 
PATIENT: And everybody notices it. Of course, nobody is noticing and they could care less if they notice. But it-I feel obvious and it's so funny-I hate to feel obvious. At the same time, I hate to feel unnoticed completely. But I think it's a-it's part of it. It's the same feeling. It really is. I'm obviously unnoticed or something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right, because...
PATIENT: But Alicia's pretty good about that because she won't dance more than maybe two dances before coming back to the table and talking with me for a little while. Unless I'm dancing, in which case, she'll go ahead and dance. But I keep talking like I'm going to talk myself out of giving up before I get there. I don't think I will, because I like my new outfit.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I haven't-nobody's seen it except me. I came and (inaudible 12:53) last night. I think it looks sexy because it's shiny.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: The stripes are going the wrong way for someone my size, but they're little bitty ones. I really like it. And it's worth twelve dollars. It's not worth much more than that if you start looking around at the sleeves and stuff like that, but I think it's a great deal.
COUNSELOR: The shopping coup (laughs).
PATIENT: (laughs) I don't make shopping coups very often, you know, if I like it I'll pay for it. I never get a discount or anything. But I really like it. I don't know, I should-I was trying to decide whether to wear a dress or pants to go out for an interview. I think if I go for an interview of a job for, say, to a person-a possible employer, I will wear a dress. But these clothes are presentable and they are accepted downtown working apparel now. So, for just going down and taking tests and filling out applications, I don't think it really makes that much difference. 
COUNSELOR: I hate dresses. I really do. I hate them. 
PATIENT: I have this one dress that-I like this dress and I wear it all the time. I've had it for four years and it's beginning to look kind of rough. It's not real short, but it's above the knee a good couple inches. I wear my dresses real short. But I wore it to church the other day and my legs got cold.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I'm thinking-because I wear pants every day to work. Usually grubby Levi's, you see, because the lab is dirty. It's got a cement floor and the air is-dirt falls out of the blower-the heater thing and it's ridiculous to wear-and then I wear a lab coat and the stuff I'm working with and everything it's ridiculous to wear anything good because it's just going to get smelly or ruined or something. Working with acids and (inaudible 14:55) and stuff like that. That's one thing-if I get a job downtown I won't be able to wear my Levi's to work every morning.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But that's something I'm willing to sac-it looks like from the-for what I'm qualified for, if they have an opening for any of the positions, like with the FBI or the Federal Government-I think I'd probably be with the FBI or Federal Food and Drug Administration-probably something like that. Or the State, which has a Pollution Control Board which I would-it's the sanitation-I'd be a sani-sanitation-sanitarion, something like that. But there's all kinds of things that would be involved. Lots of different things involved instead of just doing one thing like I do. And being traveling around to different places-I wouldn't be sitting in an office all day. And meeting people. And on a business level, I can do all right meeting people. It's just personally...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: ...that I have problems.
COUNSELOR: Like on a business level you're not up for evaluation-you, yourself. 
PATIENT: Well, I am up for evaluation, but not socially. I've always gotten along with older people and I've always been able to impress-and I've always had this problem-I mean-well it's not really a problem, but I get along with a boyfriend's parents, his brothers and sisters and his dog, you know.
COUNSELOR: But not him.
PATIENT: Right, okay, I'll get along okay with him but I had-I know of two examples of guys-we were just going along-we were just going out. We were just kind of going together for fun. You know, there was nothing serious or anything like that, you know. Besides that, you hear-he hears wedding bells and he thinks he hears wedding bells.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Freeze, right?
PATIENT: And I know of two guys that I went with whose mothers-I had gone over to his house for different occasions and everything and talked with his mother and his mother and I became great friends. And his mother is what ruined us because he'd come home and all he'd is "How'd Susan? She's a really nice kid" and all this kind of stuff like this, you know, and his mom had wedding plans for him. It wasn't me and it wasn't him. It was his mom and...
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: So I get along well with older people. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: And I get along well with people my parents' age and businessmen like I would be running into. But-even socially-I have no trouble. I don't know what it is about my peers. Especially men. But little kids-I used to get along better with little kids than I do now because they make me nervous now. I haven't been around them in so long.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: When I used to babysit I had no trouble getting along with kids. And even when I was eighteen, nineteen years old I use to-there were a couple of people in the neighborhood that I babysat for since I was fifteen and then I came home on vacations being in the summertime when I was nineteen years old I would still babysit for them on special occasions.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, like special occasions like if they were going away for the weekend. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: You know, like if they just wanted someone for the night, they'd get some sixteen or seventeen year-old kid in the neighborhood. But if they were going away for the weekend and wanted someone to stay with their kids, the didn't want to take them with, they usually called me (inaudible 18:14). But now they make me nervous because since then I haven't been around them and I'd forgotten how when kids play-just when they're playing and they don't need to-they scream!
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: And just-they really Meg's-because Meg's brother is a holy terror. But we were out there-I was out there one day for dinner with them and spent the afternoon and evening with her family. And her brother-Meg's parents were really, really strict with her and her two sisters-and in retrospect, Meg's mother, looking back, realizes that she made a lot of mistakes. Because her father was-is-somewhat violent and she's told him a couple times that he probably could have gotten in for (inaudible 19:10) and taken in for child beating if anybody had ever said anything about it. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And her mother used to just sit there and not say anything and, in retrospect, she had decided that that was wrong and so Jordan is like a change of life baby. Her mom is really only forty-seven, but Jordan's twelve and Meg's twenty-four today. So there's twelve years difference.
COUNSELOR: A big difference.
PATIENT: And her two sisters are two years apart-well twenty-one and nineteen, I think. And so she has decided she made this-she made a mistake and so now any time anybody yells at Jordan, her son, she just goes into a frenzy and just protects him terribly. Her father, she won't even let her father reprimand him for anything and she won't either. So they're just complete about-face so the kid is a holy terror.
COUNSELOR: Going to the other extreme.
PATIENT: You're there for dinner, you know, and of course he's showing off for guests and he does stuff that if I had tried that, guests or no guests-and my parents-my parents weren't big on beating, you know, spankings. They weren't afraid to spank but they-I didn't get spanked that often. Mostly because I didn't push them. My brother got spanked more because he was-he'd push them until they really couldn't take it any more. 
 But some stupid thing like he was doing-things that he was doing at the table, playing with his food and stuff like that and yelling and screaming and jumping up and down at the table and stuff like that-we'd have got smashed right in the mouth, probably. [20:43)
COUNSELOR: (chuckles)
PATIENT: And they just kind of sat there like nothing was going on, just completely ignoring it. And my-I'm a nervous person anyway. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: And I get that from my mother environmentally.
COUNSELOR: Why is that?
PATIENT: I'm sitting there and Meg could see me getting more nervous, more nervous...
COUNSELOR: So watching him act up and play with his food and nobody's noticing...
PATIENT: Well, they're ignoring it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And a couple of times I got ready to reach across the table and smash him myself. You know, bop him on the head "Sit down and eat. Shut up. Children will be seen and not heard." (chuckles) I used to hate that and now I said it! I guess Meg has the same problem. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And she tries to reprimand him for something and her mother really just kind of steps in and, you know-they were-earlier that afternoon I was there and he and a friend of his were playing in the den and they were-they weren't being-they were being rowdy as boys will be, but I mean they weren't being destructive or anything. They were having some kind of races with their cars and stuff like that and little bit of wrestling on the side and screaming and hollering and jumping up and down and (chuckles). I'm just going...
COUNSELOR: You started to get more and more irritated. [22:09]
PATIENT: Yeah. And Meg wasn't in much better shape. Let's go shopping. Let's get out of the house. I don't know. It's times like that when you say "I don't want any kids." (chuckles) The world's overpopulated. But I think it's one of those things you get used to. You've got to get used to the kids yelling and screaming because I know we used to do it. When I was twelve years old my mom was in the hospital with an almost nervous breakdown. So we used to do it, too. It's hard to remember back that far-I mean how much noise you used to make.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: You weren't making noise at the time and it's not so much-it's not so much-I-I-we-I got-I remember one time-I think I told you about this-getting caught at this. We were coming back from my grandparents' farm and we were fighting in the back seat-my brother and I-and back comes his hand across the backseat. Both of us got "I told you before shut up and be quiet in the backseat." So we're sitting there real quiet and still like we always did and then we started looking at each other out of the corner of our eyes and giggling. And then we started playing with each other. We were having a good time. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: We thought we're having a good time. We're enjoying each other's company. You can't get in any trouble doing this. After ten or fifteen minutes of this-I always sat behind my dad so I was always the one that caught it-hand comes flying back again. I didn't see it this time. Smack! And I was stunned.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I was totally stunned.
COUNSELOR: Because you were so surprised because you didn't think you were doing anything wrong.
PATIENT: Because, you know, I felt like I hadn't heard the-you know, I hadn't heard Bill Cosby-he's got a line "What did you do that for? Being good." or something like that. That's when I looked at my mom and sort of said-I said-just total amazement-my mom felt sorry for me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I was always a why kid anyway. I just stood there looking at her with this-I remember-total shock. I said "What did you do that for?" "I told you guys to be good." "We were being good. We're just sitting back here enjoying each other's company being real good. We weren't fighting or nothing." My mother says "You were making noise. That's what makes your father nervous when he's driving is making noise." She didn't tell me this until the next day. She just always said about that time-all he said was "Just shut up." I don't even remember whether it was winter or summer, bad driving conditions or anything like that. When you're a kid, you don't care. But that was such a shock. How did I get on the subject of kids make me nervous? Especially about fifteen minutes ago. [25:01]
COUNSELOR: Oh, you were talking about how you get along well with older people and kids.
PATIENT: Oh, I don't get along as well with kids anymore as I used to. Of course Jordan's  the only thing I have to go on by that kid. Because I'm not around any kids besides Jordan. And the ones I used to babysit with, they were rambunctious but I had no trouble controlling them. Probably because most of the time instead of sitting there listening to them play and scream I was playing with them.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: Which you know, you're in on that, so it, you know, it's not noise you have to sit there and listen to and observe. You're in on it. You're jumping up and down and screaming and everything else. So all this stems from the fact that I was saying I don't think I have too much trouble in the job where I have personal contact. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: As long as I don't have to sell anything. I don't really think I'd enjoy selling, but personal contact, you know, checking up on other people (chuckles) that's not too bad. I just, you know, I wouldn't like to sell, though. I used to-well I didn't really sell. I used to sell clothes in a clothing store. I never enjoyed it. I much preferred being behind the cash register taking the money. I still enjoy that sometimes-taking the money. (chuckles) I like to take in money. Even though I don't get to keep it it's fun to handle it.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: I-Dr. (Foley ph26:30) knew-I told Dr. Foley I was going job hunting today. He said "Well, we'll take up where we left off Monday", you know. (chuckles) 
COUNSELOR: He's really easy-going about it?
PATIENT: Well he feels bad.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I mean, you know, he doesn't know that I really wanted to quit anyway because I was getting fed up with the job.
COUNSELOR: So he thinks he's letting you off.
PATIENT: And the thing that I was getting fed up about is what I've got to start again Monday. I told you about that Parathion stuff where they die of suffocation.
COUNSELOR: I don't think so.
PATIENT: Oh, well, see the reason I wanted to get rid of my job in the first place was all my life I've had a recurring dream and a recurring fear of dying of suffocation. [27:21]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, people have dreams of falling off cliffs. Well I have dreams of dying of suffocation. And I have claustrophobia, sort of. If you like-if somebody sat on my back or sat on my legs, it doesn't bother me. But if somebody sits on my back and puts his knees on my shoulders and pins my head down...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, if you're just sitting on my back that doesn't bother me. I
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: If I can't move my shoulders and my head, I just become panic-stricken because I think I can't breathe. And also, I can't smoke menthol cigarettes for the same reason. Because-you used to smoke. Did you ever smoke menthol cigarettes? 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Did you ever smoke any other kind?
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Well when you smoke a menthol cigarette, did you notice how it feels funny in your throat the first...
COUNSELOR: I guess I never noticed that.
PATIENT: The only thing-the first thing is it kind of tightens up my throat. Actually, I don't think it's tightening it up, but it feels like it's tightening it up. It's the menthol soothing it, but it feels like it's tightening up my throat.
COUNSELOR: It hurts.
PATIENT: And I can't breathe. I-I-I can still breathe, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yes, but it feel maybe your throat's going to close up. 
PATIENT: And I don't like it so I can't smoke menthol cigarettes. So these rats, first of all, are laying on a-sitting on a platform with their heads out the plate-the plate that has a hole in it. It's large enough for the neck. The hole is large enough to give them plenty of neck room. They're not being unless, you know-they've got room to move it up and down and sideways. But their jawbones come out so much further than necks that it's smaller so they can't their jawbones out. So even when they start pulling back, the only thing they're pulling against is their jawbone right here. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So it's not hurting them. But anyway, they've got their necks caught.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.
PATIENT: Now this-this particular aspect of it never really bothered me until we started gassing them with Parathion which is a gas which causes death. You gas them for fifteen, twenty, thirty minutes, however. They usually die-if they're going to die, they're going to die within ten to fifteen minutes after you're through exposing them or while they're being exposed-and long exposures.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And they die of suffocation because the stuff paralyzes their diaphragm muscles and their ribcage muscles so they can't breathe. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: Their muscles won't work. So they lay their gasping and dying of suffocation and I have to sit there and watch them because I've got to write down how long it took them to die.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm. And there you are sitting watching these rats die of suffocation with their necks caught in this thing.
PATIENT: Yes. And I don't want to die of suffocation and it just-the-it just used to get-at first I just didn't like watching it, you know. But it got worse and worse and worse.
COUNSELOR: It started to really get you.
PATIENT: I go gas that day and then I'd go home and I'd cry all evening.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I'd really get upset. I'd cry or go by the-go to the store and buy myself a bottle of booze and finish off half of it or something and sit there blah, numb.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And...
COUNSELOR: Did-yeah, something about it would just stay with you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I couldn't stand it. I've killed rats before-I mean I just picked them up and when we do analysis-it sounds gross but actually it's the nicest way to kill them because it's the fastest and the easiest and causes them less-it doesn't get them as excited-is to just cut their heads off.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: They don't get excited-it's a much nicer way to go. But it looks kind of gross. But I've done that and it never bothered me. I've etherized them. I've injected them. I've done all kinds of things to kill them and it never bothered me. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. [31:02]
PATIENT: I suppose if I didn't have to watch them die of suffocation, this wouldn't bother me either.
COUNSELOR: But you sit and watch them struggling and helplessly in...
PATIENT: My throat gets all tight. I start gasping. And I've got to do that again next week. But Dr. Foley knows that I don't like to do it but it needs to be done.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I did find out that although these people may not have jobs for me just saying that I'm working on inhalation toxicity at the NYU carries a lot of weight.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I saw this one guy "Oh, well, how nice. What are you doing here?" (chuckles). Well I don't really-I didn't know what to tell them when they ask me.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: I didn't know-I didn't want to say-well in some ways they could understand it and in some ways they couldn't. If I told them my boss works on a grant nationally-because they wouldn't know this, just the fact that I work at the NYU. His grant runs out May 1st and he doesn't have any money to pay me and he wont' have another one until later. Therefore, I won't have any money. I mean, he will have no money to pay me so I have to look for another job. Which puts them in-they can have sympathy. It could also put them at the advantage because they know I have to get a job and the might try to stick me in something I don't want.
COUNSELOR: Yes, yes.
PATIENT: For less money than I want, too.
COUNSELOR: Yes, yes.
PATIENT: I don't want to tell them that I just got tired of my job. I've got a good work record. I've worked there for a year and a half and everything.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I don't want to tell them I just got tired of my job because I'm kind of-I'm wanting to go into the same kind of studies-toxicity studies, pollution studies. Except I want to go in aquatic pollution studies.
COUNSELOR: Into what? [33:05]
PATIENT: Aquatic pollution studies, like going around and studying the rivers and lakes around here. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: See if they're polluted and I'd kind of like to be in on finding the source of this pollution. Finding out who's polluting it and giving them a hard time.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: Which I would be in this one-in this one job for the State. I'd be in sewage control if I get it.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: I've got to go by and take the test. But it just fits exactly.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I fit kind of right in there because all the requirements for it I had in college, plus I've got good background here and I have a year and a half experience at it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: The test is-of course is about sewage control and stuff like that-tests for sewage and stuff which I know nothing about but with the rest of my background and everything, I should probably be able to get the test. I don't know, I'll have to wait and see what I get on the test. But still, you know if I tell them I didn't want-that I'm tired of this job they may think "She's going to be tired of this one in a year and a half or something like that. I suppose I could just say that having to gas these animals upsets me-to watch them die of suffocation really bothers me because I know I did it. I suppose I could say that. I-I really don't know what to say. 
COUNSELOR: It's sort of something kind of you don't want to say that to him...
PATIENT: I suppose maybe the safest thing to say would be the fact that the work that I'm doing bothers me because the nature of it-of these things are terminal and they bother me because it just bothers me to have to watch these animals die in this manner.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I don't want to tell him-one thing I'm not going to do is I'm not going to tell him I've lost interest in my present job. They will kind of think that I've sort of lost interest from this but, you know, but when I tell them about it bothers me, they will assume that I have lost some interest. But I'm still...
COUNSELOR: They won't think it's like flip or something...
PATIENT: A good reason for it. Of course, I think it's a good reason. I could tell them that-I could make it a combination of the fact that the studies that I'm doing are bothering me and the fact that the reason I'm doing it now instead of later is to get a jump on it because his grant runs out in May and I will need a new job. I don't want to wait until May to start looking for one because then I've got to compete with all the graduates that are graduating in June-May and June. Jobs are tight enough they way they are. I don't know. I hate to lie to people, though. It's not really a lie, but you have to be so...
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: ...careful in things like that, you know, that you don't say something wrong. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It's really aggravating. I hate to do things like that-like I have to walk this tightrope worrying about it-tell a small lie or something like that.
COUNSELOR: Carefully present just the right information and not let any of the wrong information slip.
PATIENT: Right. And, you know...
COUNSELOR: You don't like to be so devious. 
PATIENT: Right. And it's so funny because most of these people won't really care once you've got the job.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, and they probably wouldn't care anyway but you just can't take the chance. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. [37:08]
PATIENT: Somebody might be sitting there waiting for the job that has none of the hangups that you have or something like that, you know. They're not hangups that I think would-you know-they're not really hangups that would-would reduce my capabilities for the job. That's one thing that gets me about these jobs is I really think I could do all these jobs, but these tests! I'm perfectly capable of the jobs, but like the test on sewage control-I know absolutely nothing about.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, Um Hm.
PATIENT: I suppose I could look it up in a book and stuff like that-well if I have any about the proper pH for water in sewage ditches or something like that, I really don't know what it is. I never had any sewage work (chuckles). I never took any courses on sewage. I do-I took one-what course was it? On sewage disposal-there was something in it on the different types of sewage disposal. I don't know what course it was, about different ways that they disposed of sewage. I need to get out that book (inaudible 38:19).
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: It's probably helpful.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: There's three different kinds of ways they can do it or something like that. It could have been in Bacteriology. It seems to me it was my Senior year and that's about the only thing that would come close to it that I took in my Senior year. I don't know what I took in my Senior year. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, getting old. Feeble-minded. 
PATIENT: That's really something funny. I have a bad memory. I have a convenient memory. I've always been able to pretty much forget bad things that happen to me. The emotions may still be there because I've forgotten, you know, what really happened. I can forget what I did yesterday or what the date is today after writing it ten times someplace. Or things like that. But, in college, my memory-not my memory-well it was sort of memory-is what got me through college because I'd sit down and I'd read a book for a test and I'd go ahead and take the test and I'd get a good grade on it. I didn't memorize anything in the book because my powers of memorization are rotten. But I just kind of assimilated it.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: If I understood it, basic premises and everything, you know, I'd go in with an understanding of what I was saying and could write a good test. Not saying that I would remember all these premises two weeks later.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But I had the understanding. I understood it, thereby I think that if I needed it again I would reread it and be able to understand it again. Not that I remember it, you know. But I could do things like that and yet I have a horrible memory. It really is. It's inconvenient and convenient. It's convenient in that I do just kind of automatically forget bad things. Just kind of I don't even worry about it-they just, you know...
COUNSELOR: Now forgetting the dates and books and stuff-that's not so convenient?
PATIENT: Right (chuckles) yeah. Like today I had to back and get that checkbook. I thought I'd never-I was getting to the point where I thought-it was the same thing last night. I thought "I've got to go shopping and buy some new clothes. I'm going out with Alicia tomorrow night." I knew-tonight-I knew that. Also knew I was going downtown this morning and I needed something to wear. Something nice and presentable. I really went dress shopping but didn't find any dresses. But then I got home and I thought "No, I'm not going to go. Too much hassle." Then I said "Well, you have to go out and buy Meg's book anyway-Meg's birthday present anyway and you can't really go to the store and buy Meg's birthday present because you haven't got any money. So you have to go someplace where you can charge it. Sears."
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: You've got to do that, you might as well just go shopping anyway. I've been saying-I've been saying for about three weeks that I was going to go. You know, tonight I have nothing to do, I'm going to go dress shopping. I'm going to go shopping and I never do. I just think about it. My girlfriend Meg called me last night. I haven't talked to her since before Christmas and about three times a week I think to myself "Tonight when I get home I have to call Meg" and I never do it. 
COUNSELOR: You don't quite understand why you can't act on the stuff you plan to do.
PATIENT: Right. There's no reason why I don't do it-to do dress shopping or just like that. Today I almost decided not to go. When I had to turn around and go home and get my checkbook I said "I'm just going to stay home." I had to force myself to get back in the car and drive downtown. I had no problems when I got there, except the exorbitant amount of money I had to pay to park my car. But-you'd have to have a $50,000 a year job just to park your car downtown. It's important. 
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) [42:29]
PATIENT: You really would. And I had lunch down there. A hamburger costs a dollar. You'd have to take your lunch and take public transportation or something. But that's getting expensive.
COUNSELOR: I know. 
PATIENT: Stay at home. I don't understand why I do things like that. Like afraid to venture out. 
COUNSELOR: Do you think that's what it is? That you're afraid?
PATIENT: I think so, I mean it's so much easier just to stay in my apartment and be...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds more like it's too much trouble or something.
PATIENT: It could be that I think it's just too much trouble. You're probably-it's so much of an effort. It's so much easier just to sit at home and think about going to the store and buying clothes and then tell myself I'm saving myself all kinds of money. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I don't know why I do things like that. I'm not really-it sounds like I am-but I'm not really a lazy person. I don't think I am. I'm lazy when it comes to doing things like make my bed but...
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: Grab the covers firmly and throw them up and leave them there. I'd make my bed more often except that my bed is surrounded on two sides by walls. It's up in the corner. I so wanted to pull it outside. Making (inaudible 44:18) for not making my bed. (chuckles) I don't know why I do things like that. I've done this all my life. Call Meg, go over and see her. You haven't got anything to do and she's sitting at home bored. I just don't do it.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: It's no effort even just to call her on the phone. She lives three miles away from my apartment. It doesn't even cost me one unit and I can talk for four hours-it just costs one unit, not even expensive.
COUNSELOR: But somehow you're sitting around and...
PATIENT: I just don't do it. It's just-it's kind of being lazy and afraid to stick my neck out.
COUNSELOR: Afraid to stick your neck out?
PATIENT: To venture out into anything. Just to make any kind of forward advances at all to do anything.
COUNSELOR: So that even calling someone up is kind of exposing yourself.
PATIENT: Calling myself to Meg isn't exposing myself. Going down to see her shopping is no, you know, I'm not going with anybody else. I don't have to make any commitments to anybody. I can do what I want when I want. And I don't. You know, I won't go tonight. I'll stay home tonight. Stay home and be bored or something.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: And I don't know why. I had to force myself to go bowling. I forced myself to go to all these meetings.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm. Your first impulse is always to stay home and you have to give yourself a pep talk to do it.
PATIENT: I don't know what it is-why I do things like that. It's really weird. It's not that I-once I get going, I'm all right. It's like I was thinking to myself this afternoon-I got home about three-fifteen and I was working a crossword puzzle because I was tired of (inaudible 46:12). I thought "I think I'm just going to go to bed tonight. I'm not going out."
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm.
PATIENT: "No, you're going out. You went out and bought all these clothes. Don't waste it."
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Got to wear them somewhere.
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what happened with-you said to yourself "I think I'll go to bed tonight" and you just think how sort of it would be sort of warm and cozy and easy or...?
PATIENT: Yeah. It's the easy thing to do. Especially-I mean I can understand-I can sort of understand myself thinking the "Yeah, but if you go out tonight and you don't even meet anybody or anything, then you're really going to feel bad. You might as well just stay at home and save yourself trouble." I can see saying that, thinking that. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I never-I don't understand why these little thoughts creep into my mind-well-and I give into them, too. "Well let's don't go to Sears tonight. Let's wait." I don't know why. I think why those ideas creep into my mind and I'm even less sure why-I can understand if I'm tired or something why they would come into my mind. Why I give into them I don't know. I've taken a pos-yesterday I was very positive yesterday and today. I decided well, we're going to do it.
COUNSELOR: You sort of took yourself in hand and said we're going to the store.
PATIENT: Shut up, we're going to the store. I do that. I guess I really am getting lazy. A lot of it is laziness. Because I don't want to be bothered or something. Because I've been doing the same thing about just going down to Mr. G's to just pick up some food. Well if I go, when I get back I won't have a parking place for my car and I'm not about to walk two whole and a half blocks. I don't think anything of walking to work every day and walking back. It doesn't bother me. Even at zero degrees, I don my old coat and I trudge out. It's part of my daily routine I guess, or something. But to walk to the store, that's terrible, which is two and a half blocks, right? It's usually-and my excuse I use is it's too cold. I'll walk-on a really cold day I'll walk from work to my apartment. My car's parked in front of the apartment. I will then get in my car and drive to go to the store. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: If I really need something bad, because it's just too cold to walk back to the grocery store. And I think-I really get a good laugh out of it every once in a while. Oh, this is cool, stupid. You know, but I think-like it just doesn't bother me a bit to walk back and forth to work. I thought of driving a couple mornings when it was really cold. But it's sheer folly to drive because by the time I go to work, all the parking places are taken near where I work. I live on 54th place and I usually have to park on 56th. I park my car on 56th and walk the rest of the way. Now I'm saving myself a block and a half and by the time I get in the car, drive around for ten minutes trying to find a parking place, parking in it and walking the rest of the way, I've wasted gas-it's not good for the car to start it and stop it like that. I've wasted time-the time it took my to start it, drive over there, drive around, park it and walk, I could have walked the whole thing in less time. Less money spent and everything else. So I think that's why I've accepted so well just walking to work [50:09]
COUNSELOR: Mmm.
PATIENT: But when it's warmer I go ahead and walk down to the grocery store. I've had days when it was warm enough to do that. I learned though, from experience, when I used to live right across the street from Mr. G's that I'd walk into the grocery store to buy a dozen eggs and a pound of bacon and I come back with about twenty pounds worth of groceries. I'll see something-oh, that will be nice. I can have that for dinner tomorrow night. First thing you know I've got two big sacks of groceries. Well, you can kind of stumble across the street from Mr. G's to (inaudible 50:40) up three flights of steps with two bags of groceries. But I can't see walking all the way down to 54th place, you know.
 I've done that to myself a couple of times and so I've-I just take it. But there have been times when I really-it's so funny. Walk all the way home and then get in the car and drive two more blocks. But sometimes I'm just so cold by then. But usually it's not any of those things. I just do it. I'm going to go to the store-I've got to drive to the store. Walk to work, have to drive to the store.
 I'm not sure if it's-again, it sounds like anything venturing forth out of my little cosm.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm. [51:34]
PATIENT: I don't know-but personal pride or what-I hate to consider it's just laziness. But it sounds like laziness. It's just like, you know, it's the easiest thing to do. It's the easiest and the safest thing to do is just stay at home.
COUNSELOR: In your own little cosm that's comfortable and you're there.
PATIENT: And I may be miserable but at least I'm safe.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Nothing strikingly bad is going to happen to you.
PATIENT: It's like nothing ventured, nothing gained. Nothing ventured, nothing lost. 
COUNSELOR: Nothing lost. Yes, yes. 
PATIENT: So I remember thinking things like that when I was going to do something like tonight. But just to go to the store-I've never really logically... I don't remember any logical or illogical though processes I've had as to why don't want to go to Sears. 
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: I remember one day that I was just too tired and one day it was too cold. But, you know, it's just things like why I don't call Meg up, why I don't call this other girlfriend, Sandy, that I went to high school-college with. I have a perfect opportunity. Both of them live right downtown. I could meet them for dinner downtown somewhere. Go right-Meg-because Meg is married but her husband is gone a lot of times in the evenings. She just lives about-over on 68th. It takes-I've got to drive through a bad neighborhood-it takes-it doesn't take very long to get there. [53:19]
 I don't know. You'd think things like this would be safe things to do because they're-I'm going someplace to get out of the house and yet I'm still-I'm staying within-like going over to see Meg, that's my one best friend...
COUNSELOR: It's not like you're doing something where you might get rejected or anything.
PATIENT: Right, yeah. Going to the store. Who's going to reject me at the store, right? Or the Sears or shopping. And it's not really the money that I'm worried about.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm.
PATIENT: Although I do have a tendency of once I do let myself go, I go a little crazy. But, I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: You know, it's almost as if something tells you when you are in a safe place, stay there. 
PATIENT: It's not as bad-like I said before-since I've gotten into these groups, bowling and the ski club, because there are things I have to do and I do do things that I have to do. Oh I have my apartment and I thought I'd just go home and I'd stay there all night. Me and my cat. It was really bad when I didn't have the cat. Just me. I don't know if this is a gross reaction from my feelings, you know, of being on the outside. Just to stay inside in my own place where I'm king or queen or whatever. I'm big cheese in my apartment. This is mine. I've got control of it.
COUNSELOR: Um Hm. Um Hm. Do you like that?
PATIENT: It's a secure feeling, you know. But then, with Meg around, it's not even mine. Not all mine. And I enjoy having Meg live with me. I enjoy that. I enjoy having her around. Good shot!
COUNSELOR: I missed.
PATIENT: Oh (chuckles) I thought it went in. 
COUNSELOR: That's strange. I'd be working.
PATIENT: Does it sound like they're all tied in together, possibly.
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I mean, well, the thing you said about staying in your own apartment where it's your place maybe, but I don't know. 
PATIENT: Well, I'm not going to be rejected there. I think part of it's just laziness, I really do. I really don't-part of it like not going out, not wanting to go tonight, I can understand that-that relates. But the other part, it's probably just sheer laziness. Just-just-it probably is. That's something I can combat.
COUNSELOR: Sheer laziness. 
PATIENT: Yeah. That I can overcome. I think part of the laziness comes from the fact that I'm not doing anything really inspiring.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: It doesn't-I don't get inspired to go to the store, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like there's nothing-you don't sort of-you can't get enthusiastic about it. You don't think-you aren't looking forward to having a really nice dinner. It's just something you've go to drag yourself through.
PATIENT: I think that breeds laziness a lot. 
COUNSELOR: What do you see (inaudible 57:22).
PATIENT: I'll just stay here. Save myself the gas and the effort and everything else because...
COUNSELOR: Because you don't expect anything good to happen.
PATIENT: I just kind of-I didn't even get excited about shopping until I got there. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I wouldn't have gotten excited at all except that I did find a couple of things that I liked hanging on the racks-which is unusual in itself and when I did find the, they fit.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: Which is the problem I have. First of all, I can't find anything and if I do find something, it doesn't look good or it doesn't fit. 
COUNSELOR: We should be quitting. (blank space in tape) [58:07]
PATIENT: Next week I can't come on Friday.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you could make it Thursday.
PATIENT: Yeah, Thursday would be good. Friday is out.
END TRANSCRIPT
