TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: It's getting cold finally.
THERAPIST: Getting what, cold?
CLIENT: Getting cold, yeah. I discovered that the reason that our climate is so cold is that (inaudible at 00:22) sun porch open, like, there's has been open generally, but they kind of look like they're shut, so. (Laughter) Hopefully I won't have to wear gloves inside anymore, maybe.
I'm really sad. (Pause) And you know, I'm working really hard not to be sad, but not like—I kind of can't tell most of the times and then it just, like, jumps up on me and then whoa. Don't know where that came from but (pause) yeah. [00:01:07]
So, like, this morning I was training at the coffee shop. I, like, had to be there and, like, 6:15 and it was supposed to be, like, 6:15 to 10:30 and I would just, like, walk right here, but they ran out of stuff for me to do after, like, two hours, so I went home. And you know, it was, like, good morning and I'm actually kind of a morning person and I really like the woman that I was training with, like, that was fine. And getting on the train to come here, because I was running a little late, like, there was a guy, a classical guitarist, playing on the train and I just (pause), like, I don't know.
(Pause) James and I talked last night. You know, he said something a ill-considerate and off-hand that hurt my feelings and then he got, like, frustrated with himself because he hurt my feelings but, like, he was just, like, had the face on and I couldn't tell whether he was angry at me or at something else. (Pause) Yeah and so we talked and, you know, he kind of feels like he needs to be—do everything exactly right all the time because I'm so fragile and he's terrified he's going to make me kill myself. And I feel like I have to do everything exactly right all the time [for him] (ph).
And I know he's scared and so, I feel like, you know, it's really hard for me to talk about the fact that I'm very sad or (pause) defective, like, I think about killing myself a lot, because it's so scary for him. And he doesn't want, you know, he wants to be OK with it. He (laughter), you know, it's like his mouth and his intentions say, you know, "I want you to tell me these things, I don't want you to hold back." But, like, his body language is completely different (laughter).
So, you know, you can't just, like, I can't just snap my fingers and unwire this whole needing to protect him from the fact that I feel bad. (Pause) [I just feel] (ph) really bad. (Sighs) So that's my morning. There were pancakes in there (inaudible at 04:10). (Pause) (Laughter) The point where it becomes clear that you're not going to say anything and you're waiting for me to keep talking and I don't have anything to say, I'm just, like, panicked (laughter). Well right then I did—I don't think I usually do (laughter). It's scarce (ph).
THERAPIST: What does it feel like?
CLIENT: Like I'm doing this wrong? (Laughter) I won't get an A in therapy (laughter).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 04:58) (laughter)
CLIENT: I know (pause), I know, but...
THERAPIST: But that's (pause), that's what my silence (ph), I guess, feels like to you, [there's an] indication that you're not doing well at this?
CLIENT: No, it's not, like, your silence. It's (pause)—I don't even know. Still the concept of free association. Still trying to be OK with it (laughter). [00:05:59] But it's like I have an idea of how sessions are supposed to go now and I feel like I'm not doing it right and I know that my idea of how sessions are supposed to go is really not actually—it's one in a small circle within the things that are OK. Well, you know, I talk and say the next thing that comes to my mind, but nothing—sometimes—and you know, I can't pick out words a lot and then I panic.
(Pause) You know, it's just there's nothing I can (pause)—it doesn't seem like being pretty smart and working really hard are the things that are going to help me not feel like crap all the time. And (crying) so I don't know what to do. (inaudible at 07:23) the things that I have.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Well, you feel this panic (pause) and then you (long pause)—I think you put it right back on yourself because (pause) maybe part of what you're panicking about is that you actually at that moment want something from me. [00:08:44]
CLIENT: That makes sense.
(silence)
Yeah, you know, I know what's happening in a conversation. Like, I don't know what's happening when you don't talk.
THERAPIST: And I (pause) imagine what you want has something to do with what you're not getting from James either, to do with (pause) some kind of, like (pause), supportive or at least kind of recognizing (pause) response about what you said about how sad you feel. [00:10:17]
(silence)
CLIENT: That could be it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 10:46) that I'm OK.
CLIENT: That makes sense. Yeah, a lot of times when I'm sad, like, I don't want James around me. I don't want him to be around. (Pause) But I kind of do (inaudible at 11:19).
(silence)
You know, I want you to be able to fix it. (Pause) I don't. That's so far outside of the realm of things that I expect that I don't (pause)—it doesn't occur to me very often that that's what I want? [00:12:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I want you to be able to know how to handle it, yeah, I want you to be OK with it. Most people are not OK with me just telling them that I'm sad that it (ph) didn't qualify, you know. I have to say yeah, things are pretty rough but we're doing X (ph). This is bad, but at least James is here with me.
THERAPIST: Well, with all the exercise and the mindfulness, you know, we're on it.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But we're doing all we can. You know, and if I don't put a qualifier in there, they have people who will supply one. [00:13:32] I'm thinking less of James who's—yeah, than, you know, pretty much everybody else. Certainly (inaudible at 13:47). He's very uncomfortable...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 13:50)
CLIENT: ...with me just saying, like, you know, things are not good. You know, but he wants me to count my blessings.
(silence)
You know, like (pause), at one point and (ph), I don't know, a couple weeks, a couple months ago, I indicated obliquely to him that, like, James and I (inaudible at 14:25). And he just, right off the mark, just really wanted to make sure that I knew that I was really lucky in having James and I've had somebody really good, somebody to really hang on to. It was like, well obviously, like, I know that, I know. (Pause) But I (pause)—we are in a tight spot now, you know, as a couple. [00:15:08]
(silence)
You know, and (pause) we talked last night and that was kind of a (pause) [I don't know] (ph). See, I feel like I had to say, like, but, you know, right now, as in today we're in a good place or, like, we kind of have been communicating more but I feel like I had to kind of reassure you (laughter). Yeah, we're going to be OK.
THERAPIST: And I wondered in the pause whether you wanted me to fix it.
CLIENT: (Laughter) Yeah (pause), not really, not about James and me, you know, because you haven't met James and (pause) because I don't worry too much whether we'll be OK. I think we'll be fine. I know we'll be fine. We just have to make it fine. (inaudible at 16:29) (laughter)
(silence)
You know, I guess I am kind of bouncing back and forth between thinking that I put this very strict pressure on myself not to (pause) leave the bad things hanging, you know, always to say, "Things are bad, but." And then on the other hand say, well no, when I tell the people in my life just things are really bad, they want me to qualify it. I feel like they ask me to (pause), which is a good thing to know for other people in the future. To say, "Yeah, that sucks." (Laughter) (inaudible at 17:49) but...
THERAPIST: I get that it's difficult and kind of frightening for it just to suck.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's scary for me, scary for them.
THERAPIST: I think it's also scary right now. (Pause) [What I get as I think about it] (ph) (inaudible at 18:38) as always terrify you how bad things are.
CLIENT: I check the have I a disability box on my new employee paperwork. Leave a paper trail, you know, because I fit the description (laughter). (Pause) And yeah (crying), it's really scary. You know, James is scared that he's going to say the wrong thing and I'm going to kill myself and I wanted to say, "Well, it's not ever going to happen," but I can't reasonably say that's not ever going to happen. I can't—all I can do is say I'm trying really hard and I don't think it's going to happen. [00:19:38]
THERAPIST: I guess the possibility is something that you're both (pause) having to live with.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, and it's a lot easier for me to live with it than it is for James. If I weren't living with James it would be easier because I would have to—it would be in his face less.
(silence)
And the fact that a lot of the time, I'm pretty pissed off that I can't kill myself. [00:20:47] Like, it's not that—like, I'm angry that I don't have any way of fixing it. (Pause) (crying But I'm angry at James for needing me (ph). I feel like a coward for, you know, having a (laughter) very reasonable and healthy sense of, like, things hurt and I don't like pain (laughter). And, you know, having self-preservation and still actively working. Like, I (pause)—I get angry at myself for that. [00:21:47]
(silence)
THERAPIST: So you have this (pause) idea or fantasy about being free of these things so you could finally just do it, you know, you can finally just kill yourself, like...
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so.
THERAPIST: And you have the (pause) fear about it or the (pause) sort of just, like, the pain and (pause) knowing how it would affect James.
CLIENT: Having people (inaudible at 22:46) that (ph) I have people.
(silence)
You know, you never know how much you can handle until you have to handle it, so (inaudible at 23:46) and (pause) constant, like, I cannot handle this right now. I cannot take another second of my life. Well, here I am, handling it. And you know, it even (pause)—like, I have, you know, whole dry as where I feel like it's gone away or where I don't have to deal with it and so it's fine. And so I wonder what I'm making a big fuss about and (pause) (sighs)—and, you know, feel badly about (sighs) doing all of the things that I'm having to do because I'm so sad. And then, you know, I wake up the next morning and I don't want to get out of bed and there it is again. It is confusing. [00:25:09]
(silence)
THERAPIST: You seem maybe a little queer (ph) talking about how bad it is or saying some things about how bad it is.
CLIENT: Today or now as opposed to six months ago (inaudible at 26:00)
THERAPIST: Kind of sort of being today.
CLIENT: I'm more aware of it today. I talked about it with James some last night. (Pause) Yeah and it's just (pause) (inaudible at 26:25) at the tail end of a week of saying, well if I ignore it, will it go away? And say no, no—it doesn't go away. (Laughter).
THERAPIST: That and you might also be settling in somewhat to James being here.
CLIENT: Very much so, yeah. We're kind of (pause) getting a routine. The sharp edges have worn off to some degree. (Pause) Yeah, that's good.
(silence)
You know, and somehow having a talk and having (inaudible at 27:49) and having a routine, it feels like (pause) there is less at stake for me to be OK in the moment, every moment. Like (pause), it's like I'm more allowed to feel bad because (pause), I don't know, there's less (inaudible at 28:19) catastrophe (laughter). I don't know why those two are connected but [it seems like it] (ph).
THERAPIST: You know, some of it may also be other work you've been doing here.
CLIENT: That makes sense.
THERAPIST: And on your own in being a little more confident that (pause) everything and everyone won't go to hell in a hand basket if you're (pause), I don't know, (inaudible at 29:13) upset or just upset (inaudible at 29:17) like that.
CLIENT: That makes sense, you know. Incremental changes are hard to track for me (laughter). (Pause) Yeah and I guess, like, just switching to a paradigm of thinking about it is kind of, like, sadness, like, above the surface or below the surface, as opposed to (pause) existing or not existing is helpful. And (pause), like, buy into, like, believing the paradigm is not (ph) helpful, like, seeing I am able to track this (inaudible at 30:25). I (inaudible at 30:27) (laughter). But (inaudible at 30:40) James takes more convincing than I do and I have become the person who has to convince him of, you know, of this thing that sounds kind of fairly odd is reasonable when I myself am sort of only provisionally on board (laughter). So we start a lot of fights that way, me trying to argue the case for something that I'm only provisionally on board with (laughter). (Pause) I just can never resist (laughter).
(silence)
(inaudible at 32:04) I don't know what to do. (Pause) (inaudible at 32:36) but you know, I do know what can be done. We're doing it. This is it (laughter). This is (inaudible at 32:46), but (pause) I don't know. I still feel like I'm making it up. I should be able to be better than (inaudible at 33:05).
THERAPIST: So, it seems to me you're doing two things at once (pause), one of which (pause) looks just like that, sort of having the fantasy that you are sort of more in control of this (pause) or you should be more in control of this.
CLIENT: Should be.
THERAPIST: Like (pause) the idea that there's this sadness there like (inaudible at 33:47) and sometimes (inaudible at 33:48) sometimes not. Like (pause), that's crap. You know, I should be able to—this is the sort of I should be able to, like, (inaudible at 34:03), you know, and I'm so sad. It's not fair. I'm OK. There's not a huge moving thing under the water, under the surface, you know. I mean, I think at one level (pause), you know, that along with sort of your response to feeling helpless and like you should be able to have more control over this, you know, for the point that way.
But there's another way that I (pause) could hear what you said as well, which is really more to do with (pause) (inaudible at 34:49) skepticism, criticism, disappointment with me and with this. Like (pause), (inaudible at 35:01) maybe I was settling into this a little bit but let me just make it very clear that (laughter), you know, there's a part of me that's a lot like James.
CLIENT: (Laughter) I assume I haven't really gotten any better at telling you this directly, so (laughter) there's that.
THERAPIST: And well, you know, there has to be something that you can do. I guess we're doing what we're doing. I guess we're doing what can be done, you know, I don't think you're being (inaudible at 35:29) about it.
CLIENT: I know. I'm not (sighs)—the thing is, like, if I could formulate it to myself I would tell you. Like, I would just tell you I feel like this is going anywhere if I could tell myself that that was what I thought. I just, like, I'm...
THERAPIST: It seems like it frustrates you that I'm reading something or I'm hearing something in what you said that you didn't mean, like I'm...
CLIENT: No, it's not that I didn't mean—I mean, it (inaudible at 36:00)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 36:03), yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it frustrates me that I (pause)—it frustrates me that you are the person that has to look for the things that I want to tell you and find them and tell me what I want to tell you (laughter). Like, I recognize that that's kind of your job but (laughter) it's also, like, I don't want people to have to do that for me. I want to be able to just say what I think or think what I think? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Think what you think, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah (pause) and also I guess I am getting defensive here because I also don't (pause) want you to think that I have (pause)—would not be able to tell you that if I, you know, but I clearly am not.
THERAPIST: Maybe there's something that feels big] (ph) n fantasizing about my doing that or it feels like a bit of a (pause) knock.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 37:31) fantasizing but more I...
THERAPIST: Not so much (inaudible at 37:34) patronizing you, but more I'm, like, it makes you feel like you're not as sort of on top of things as you want to be.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 37:45) (laughter) Yeah. (Pause) I don't [know her] (ph). I feel like I'm (pause)—it shows me up as being passive aggressive and, you know, the kind of (inaudible at 38:08) think of me and I really don't want to be that. I don't want to be there. You know, one of the things that I like to think about myself or I've kind of been proud of in myself is that I can tell people when I'm upset and tell people when there's a problem, and so they don't have to, you know, read my mind. They can trust me to tell them when there's a problem. And so it's distressing to me to feel like I'm not able to tell people [what their problem is] (ph). (Pause) Yeah, I'm not...
THERAPIST: Maybe there's...
CLIENT: ... where I'd like to be, you know, (inaudible at 39:15) people...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 39:15), like, maybe there's something actually a bit threatening about (pause) being taken care of in that way or feel (ph) to be taken care of in that way, where somebody interprets something about what you meant or picks up something that you meant when you meant that you didn't say directly or you weren't clear on yourself. (Pause) I guess I'm going into—yeah, go ahead (inaudible at 40:08).
CLIENT: It...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm wondering is whether you're really ambivalent about (pause) people being (pause) in tune with or clear about (pause) things about how you feel. I mean, in some ways maybe clear about things that might be easier to pick up from the outside. Let's say (pause) (inaudible at 40:49) for you that on one hand, you know, there's a kind of (pause), yeah.
CLIENT: That I want to be able to control the information that I give people? (Laughter)
THERAPIST: Well maybe both. Maybe there's a way that it feels like being taken care of could be really nice, but also...
CLIENT: It is.
THERAPIST: ...that it could be really threatening and it's always something you've done for yourself and it's never something you've been able to rely on people for. I mean, I'm probably exaggerating, but certainly growing up. And (pause), you know, like what comes to mind is, you know, somebody started doing your laundry for you in high school or college.
CLIENT: [I don't need] people doing my laundry (laughter).
THERAPIST: That's what I mean, yeah. (inaudible at 41:38) damn dirty laundry (laughter). So, like, it's something you learned to do precociously early and always did for yourself. That was part of being independent. And if somebody stepped into do it, in a way I could imagine it could feel really luxurious and nice, and kind of on the other hand could feel sort of intrusive or threatening in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah (pause), I mean, threatening to me in the sense that if feels like I'm, you know, taking advantage of you or the person, but also threatening that, like, I don't want you to be able to tell if I'm upset with you if I don't tell—like, I don't like it when people think I'm angry with them. Yeah, like, I really, really don't like that. So, you know, (inaudible at 42:43) (laughter). Yeah, I really don't like that.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 42:50)
CLIENT: Yeah.
(background noise)
END TRANSCRIPT
