*TEXT-PV010046     Monday 2 December 1968          4648 4613   31    4
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (2-minute silence) It's funny, I'm lying here just thinking there are so many things on my mind that I'm having a hard time choosing which one to start with.  And I, I think some of the things that I'm thinking, I'm trying to recall because they were things that were on my mind after last Wednesday.  And then I can't tell if I'm, because they were important to me once, I'm trying to remember them so that I'll say them as if having said them does something.  And yet they don't seem that important to me now.  And, well, I guess it's better just to say it now because it's still going to be on my mind as something maybe I should say.  But it was, the thing I remember most clearly is, uhm, how I felt when I left on Wednesday.  And I, again, can't recall what I was talking about but I was in the middle of thinking about it, whatever it was.  And it always has bothered me when it's time to go when I'm in the middle of something.  And I realized, I felt angry toward you when it was time to leave and I realized that practically every time that I'm in the middle of something when it's time to go, my reaction is to feel angry that you weren't interested or else you wouldn't have interrupted me, in, in that I was still thinking about it or still pursuing it.  And, I don't know, I just feel sorry for myself, in a way, and I, it's probably partly because it's very hard just to suddenly stop.  But then I have to blame you.  And last time when I was doing it I realized that that's what I was doing.  But I still felt that way.
And so then when you smiled at me, when I left, I just felt that you didn't really mean it when you were smiling at me and that (laughs) made me angry too.  And I fe—, I, I remember feeling very strongly at the time because that was something that I sort of made myself remember right through until today.  But today it didn't seem very important to say.  And when I was starting here, I, today, I just felt, well if I don't talk about it it'll always be on my mind and getting in the way of saying other things.  Because I think what really I was thinking about was this weekend and how I felt we'd spent it with my parents.  And my brother was there and then my older sister came with her husband and her children.  And MSCZ and I were there for a day or 2 before FYC and her chi—, family came and the night they were coming, I just dreaded it.  And I was kind of surprised because usually I might anticipate feeling unhappy about things but I looked forward to seeing FYC and her children.  And I don't know, this time I realized enough what reactions I do have so I, I just knew I'd have them again and I dreaded it.  And it was almost worse than going to some kind of a cocktail party where I wouldn't know anybody.  And so naturally it was bad the first night.  And then I began to feel a little bit better.
But throughout the whole weekend, when we were all together I, I could see how I was feeling that my whole feeling about myself was being taken away from me because everybody there had different ideas on what I am and had already made up their mind and I'm already stereotyped to them.  And, and I could just feel that I was becoming what they expected me to become.  And then I'd try to fight it and I'd become overaggressive in trying to be myself and then I'd just feel foolish that way, too.  And I think what I wanted was just to have the strength to get away from them when I felt particularly badly.  But yet I still felt I'd miss something and somehow I'd better be around at all times.  Almost as if, if I'm around at all times then I'll get some credit for being something and maybe I can make some contribution to the gathering.  But if I'm only around a little bit then I won't be able to do anything and I'll just, it's almost as if I'm not there and that bothers me very much.
And I, during conversations, knowing how I just can't even listen to what's happening objectively, I tried more carefully just to listen to it.  And I realized that there'd be subjects that I did have ideas on or I knew something about and I wouldn't even be able to think in terms of myself.  I'd always be thinking, "Well, how did he know that?"  Or, "How did, how can she say that?  And maybe she's right and I'm wrong because it doesn't makes sense to me."  Or, anyway I, I just I just couldn't seem to think, well, what do I think?  And if I think it and want to say it then I can say it and it doesn't matter what effect it has.  And, and, so as a result, I really couldn't think through things.  Before, I used to think that I just couldn't think about things, that I just didn't have the mind for it.  And, I don't know, maybe I don't about some things but this time it, I seemed to be realizing that my mind was just blocked off from it.
And it also bothered me because lately, when I've been with my parents, and sometimes my sister, what they talk about just seems to me kind of stupid after a while or meaningless, or else they carry it on too long and the make too much out of it or repeat it too many times or something.  I don't know, it just, I was beginning to feel a little bored and I never felt that way before.  And this bothered me too because sometimes I just, even if I could have joined without any feeling, didn't want to because I just wasn't interested.  (Pause) And I think, in a way, because so often I've sat not saying anything, my family thinks that what's really happening to me is that I'm feeling above the conversation.  I, I might be wrong but, I don't know, I think they've cast me in a role but in another way I'm in a different type of role too.  In a way I'm just somebody who's difficult and apt to be moody.  And my ability is definitely along narrow channels, and then, in another way, I'm somebody who thinks myself above them. (Pause)
And then it was funny, the reaction I had to MSCZ.  Because usually when I'm feeling unhappy about being with my family, or insecure or whatever it is, I just take it out on him or I want to get away from everybody.  Or it used to be, when he first was with my family, that his awkwardness, I almost got a perverse pleasure out of it.  But now, well now he's more relaxed so I don't have to really worry about him at all.  But there were times when I, I just did want to be alone with him.  And it used to be that I would be afraid of missing something if I were alone with him.  And if I did go off alone with him it was only because I knew this was expected of somebody who's just been married.  And this was the first time when there's been a whole family gathering where I really did just want to be off alone with him and, and was happier and almost I didn't care what I was missing, didn't really think about it.  I don't know, I just somehow felt that I wanted to be with him and I needed him and I felt close to him.  And then it began to bother me that maybe I was, I don't know, sort of using him in this need of him, that it was, eh, for the wrong reason. (Silence)
But I think I'm realizing more than ever, just from hearing how my father talks now, how much everything that anybody did was called stupid when we were growing up.  (Pause) And also, how much in any time there were kind of games being played, although my parents didn't play that much with us, whenever there were, he had to win, just as if he were some little boy who couldn't stand the idea of possibly losing.  And, and he was just a terrible sport if he didn't.  And I just think we played a game while we were in PTN this weekend and it involved making up definitions for a word and I guess it's called dictionary.  And then somebody would read them.  And somebody read one of his incorrectly and he was sure that was why nobody voted for it and he just got furious.  And he didn't let up either, he didn't just make it clear once that the thing had been done wrong but he harped on it over and over again.  And I know this is an attitude he always had and now it just bothers me because it just is so small of him to do something like that. (Pause)
And I suppose too that I don't know, I know I was talking about this once with MSCZ, I don't know if I said anything here about it — but that because my father had so many problems of his own, I'm sure he had a number, it was always very important to him that he succeed in business and that he did drive himself quite a bit when he was starting as a lawyer, until his family was very worried about him.  But he became successful in that.  And it, I don't know, now when I look back, it does seem that the other way he was to succeed in life was to have children that people were proud of and spoke to him about and that somehow we were supposed to do for him what he didn't do for himself.  And I think, all along I felt something there.  I don't know what I felt exactly, but I always felt I did have to fight him and that I didn't, in a way I respected him but in another way I didn't.  I don't know, I just felt always there was something wrong in (sounds of movement) — whatever it was I felt, I had to stand up to him and I don't know — I sometimes think well, maybe I didn't want to be what he wanted me to be so I had to fight that.  But there were lots of times when I think basically I thought that was wonderful thing to be. (Pause)
But whenever I did fight him, it does seem to have been based on his, what I thought at the time and always called, his lack of justice.  But it was more when he was just, for whatever reason, thinking about himself to the point where he was just unaware of another person's point of view.  And I don't know m—, how much he ever said this but I think of what his view must have been when he was acting in that way that I called unjust, that he must have been either saying or thinking to himself that, "I don't care what you think or what you want to do, this is what you're going to do."  And somehow, if you grow up with that then you begin to believe that it isn't important what you think and what you want to do.  And yet I did feel it was and yet, and, and so then I ended up fighting him but without the feeling that it really was.  I never had the strength to really do it, or be, or whatever it was. (Pause)
And this whole thing of realizing more things makes me sad in a way, because I don't know, perhaps in the end you can still have a feeling for, for your family and just feel better about yourself.  But right now I just feel I'm losing them because I don't like them.  (Pause) And I think this happened particularly with FYC over the weekend, that I used to look up to her and, and think that whatever she said was, you know, pure wisdom and that she had a wonderful mind and all these things.  And this weekend, when I'm talking to her alone I can enjoy the conversation but when we were having group conversations it just seemed that she was constantly building herself up in them or starting out with a point, perhaps, but then getting off the point or getting into a position where sort of, "Well, you know how we feel about it, even if nobody else does.  And we're right."  Kind of attitude.  And I don't know, it just, there were just so many things that I just couldn't agree with and couldn't admire.  And I won't ever be able to feel the same way about her again and it makes me sort of sad.  And I don't know why, because my feeling about her before was probably partly what kept me feeling I wasn't anything. (Pause)
And I think I'll always feel my father's sort of pathetic now.  And I think I'll always feel sort of sad for my mother.  I don't — in a way, uhm, I think she'll always annoy me, she always has.  But I don't think, I think I'll admire her more than any of the others at the end of it.  And I feel sort of sad for FNA, too, because in her own way, I think, she protested very strongly against some of the things that were happening to her as she grew up.  And I suppose I don't feel sad for FYC because she never did protest.  Or at least, it never seemed that she did and if she did, she certainly fell into it easily enough in the end.  But FNA did protest and she's even said things to my parents which I never probably would have said.  At one point she asked them why they had always thought she was not very capable in doing, in, in intellectual things.  And they don't see it, but they did have that attitude.  And, of course, they say, well, they never did, they just felt she was capable of more than she did.  But I got the feeling that they had that attitude and so there must have been something there.  And, I don't know, I feel she's, she could be so close to feeling so much better about herself and she never will.
Because when I heard of, when we were there this weekend that both my mother and my sister described how FNA was right before she was married.  And she was very tense and she got a headache at one point and just all the things that were just like me.  (Pause) And I don't think, and MTT's attitude, her husband's attitude is sort of, "Well, leave her alone when she's that way."  And I suppose you have to, if that's the way she's going to be but nobody has the attitude that it doesn't have to be that way or if it is their attitude it doesn't have to be, it's because it's FNA's fault and she should have better control over herself, or something.  But I do wonder, though, how much FNA did try to resist what was happening to us when we grew up because now well, just the way she reacted to going to PYKK was so much like me.  And she, her husband was the one who talked her into going and he had to promise to do a lot of things and it was really working out a bargain, "If I do that, then will you do this?"  Attitude.  And, "Well, how can I leave this and that?"  And finally he just made her go.  And if I had been in her circumstances that would have been exactly how I would have reacted too.  (Pause)
Well, it's funny, I grew up feeling so much outside my family in one way, or just withdrew from it and now I just feel I'm becoming outside it in another way.  And it makes me feel sad, partly because for my brothers and sis—, my brother and sisters, that they could be with me, and it doesn't have to be that I'm outside.  But even my brother, I used to think he was a little bit apart from things and not, and strong enough to resist some of the attitudes and, and influences of my family.  And I don't know, I was just noticing him this weekend.  And on the whole, he's just as much part of it and part of all the prejudices and way of thinking and everything.  And he, I think he's fought against it too but I just wonder how much he really will succeed.  (Pause) And it, it's just that, when — my family loves to talk about different people and stereotyping them and all just kind of sitting back smugly agreeing, "Aren't they all awful?"  And never talking about a group that they stereotype that they think is nice.  Well, their kind is the only kind.  And it has always just made me so angry when they do that, even before I realized quite what it was that I was angry at. (Pause)
And the thing that makes me angriest is that, however much I don't like their prejudices, I have a lot of them myself, that, that I can't, that if I'm rational about them, I realize they're, they're stupid to have, but yet they'll come up unconsciously and affect me without my realizing it.  (Pause) And just the attitude they have about, well especially my mother, about any kind of psychiatric help is, is one thing.  (Pause) And really, I realized this weekend that my family and my sister and her husband now, too, have some kind of a stereotyped idea about PKW and PKWNs and how PKWNs think they're superior to everybody.  I don't know, it's — and that they're too materialistic and clothes conscious and appearance conscious.  And they're putting me and MSCZ now in that stereotype.  And yet, I, I can't tell if they'd like to be more part of it but are afraid to be, or just what it is, but there's something sort of strange in the way they feel about it.  And I used to feel very afraid of living in PKW.  I was terrified when MSCZ insisted that that's where we'd live, because I had the same concept about PKW. (Silence)
It's funny, I was thinking off and on when we played that dictionary game — well, it wasn't a new reaction because whenever I've played it before I've been very scared because I was sure I'd be foolish in what I'd write down and everybody would know how stupid I was compared to the other sort of entertaining or very good definitions.  And I would find, when I was writing them, that I would have some feeling about what I wanted to say and then I wouldn't be able to get the words at all.  And sometimes I would think of a word that seemed to be what I wanted but then I'd be unsure that it was the right word and I wouldn't dare leave it.  And I'd have to change what I was writing.  And when I voted for a definition, it would be for one, almost always, that had words or a concept that was one I thought, well, I'd never think of it.  And my thinking would be, how could anybody else have thought of it, if I couldn't?  And so I'd vote for it as if that must be the one that came from the dictionary.  Sometimes when I've played it I've found I can hardly think at all because I've been so afraid of what the reaction would be to what I wrote.  And last night, or the, whenever we played it last weekend after a while, I felt well, I can write something.  But then it was almost as if, well, my role in the family is of being the stupid one or who can expect much from FAJ anyway so it won't matter if mine isn't very good.  Or else, I could almost feel myself trying to be sort of purposely silly so that then, when I did lose, it wouldn't be so bad.  And it's that whole thing, again, of not really making any attempt to do anything but lose because then I can tell myself well, I didn't really try, anyway. (Pause)
And I was surprised, too, when it was my turn to read the definitions and choose a word and all, I could hardly read them, that I would just stumble over it and I was afraid I'd mispronounce them.  And I just didn't like all the attention on me, either.  (Pause) And I used to be surprised when I first started teaching, that I didn't feel that way in the classroom and I, I suppose, but especially with young children.  And I think I'm more relaxed with young children because they just naturally assume I know what I'm doing.  And then I feel as if I really do know more of what I'm doing.  And I don't f—, I'm not afraid to admit that I've made a mistake with them where I, I am with others.  Or it doesn't bother me to admit that I've made a mistake. (Pause)
And it's funny, too, another thing that was disturbing me all weekend and that was the attitude that my family has about being outside and, I don't know, just thoroughly involving yourself in some activity outside just because it's good to be outside, doing something.  Almost like it's work or a job you must do, "You must go out and play.  You must go out and skate!"  And I remember when we were young, my mother was always practically forcing us to go out of the house, "You must go up there to the pond and skate!"  Or, "You must go out and ski!"  And, I don't know, this attitude that it's no longer, "If you choose to and it's fun, then fine, do it.  If you don't want to, don't do it."  But simply, "You should have fresh air and you should be out exercising."  And so this weekend I just, I would get so I just felt, "I can't go out, I don't want to go out and I'll hate it if I am.  And if they force me, then I'll just be out the whole time complaining about it."  And so I wouldn't go out.  And then I'd begin to feel really slovenly, that's the way we were always made to feel.  But if I could keep myself from going out until I really wanted to join whatever was happening or just go for a walk then I could enjoy it.  And if I went out before I was ready, then I would immediately be cold or uncomfortable or complain about something and I wouldn't want to stay. (Pause)
And I think it was more, too, because, uhm, the whole weekend I was thinking, "Well, if people would just go for a walk, I'd like it."  But it happened the sledding was very good and so very often, those who were outside were involved in that.  And I did want to try it but I didn't want to have to stay with it if I decided I didn't like it anymore.  And so I was afraid to join it because I thought that, because the attitude of many people is sort of, "Well, how can you quit now?"  Or "What a sissy."  Or, I don't know, anyway simply, "You're so stupid not to stay outside and enjoy this, it's so much fun."  And so I would put off joining.  And then finally I would decide "Well, I'm just going to do it until I feel like stopping."  And then I'd do it and enjoy it and keep going or I didn't find stopping when I wanted to that difficult. (Pause)
But it's this need to drive yourself that my family all seems to have.  And keep driving yourself and if somebody's just sitting by the fire, reading or something, then they're not driving themselves and, and there's something wrong with them, then, and something to look down upon.  And the only way I can get around that is if I say, "Well, I'm doing schoolwork."  And then, "Oh, well, that's understandable.  And, of course, you'd want to stay inside then to work."  (Pause) But otherwise, all your time seems to have to be spent so that you can justify it.  Because everybody else is sure enough going to make comments about how you're spending it.
But I did begin to feel, I think, a little bit this weekend, that I would still justify it but I began to feel a little less that I cared about whether or not I had really justified it in their, their eyes.  I mean, it still bothered me what they might think but I, but not enough so I would completely do something I didn't want to do just because of what I knew they'd think if I didn't.  (Pause) I just suddenly thought I feel very stupid, lying here talking around in circles like this.  Almost as if these things shouldn't even be voiced, that if I think them that's alright but I shouldn't even talk aloud about them.  (Pause)
For some reason, that made me think of something I thought of earlier last week, of the fact that, despite the attitude I have about crying here, or just generally about my own situations, if I'm reading a book or if I'm at a movie and it's something that is going to make people cry, especially women, I'm, I very easily will cry.  And I rather enjoy it, as well as feeling whatever the emotion is at the moment.  And I don't think anything of it then.  And it's only if it concerns me, that I can't.  And that seems sort of worse in a way, that I have to use all these other things to feel anything. (Silence)
And also, the fact that I would much prefer very often to go to a movie or to read a book than to be sort of living something, whether it's being with people or doing something that's a direct experience.  Very often I, I can't think of going to the theater, whereas I'd love to go to a movie because I have to even participate at the theater more than I feel I can, or that I want to.  And then, if I'm going to the theater I have to almost always know ahead of time so that I can kind of prepare myself for it.  As much as I can enjoy it once I'm there, I still feel, if I'm tired or, I don't know, just hadn't been prepared ahead of time, it's very hard for me to suddenly go to the theater, just like it's very hard for me suddenly to go someplace for dinner with other people or go to a party, or just do things with people.  I always somehow have to get myself prepared for it.
ANALYST:  Well, our time's up.
