TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: Well, it was really something when we left here last week. Charlie was very upset with what he had talked to Mike about and he said that he realized how unhappy he was. And he didn't know, you know, if it was because he was unhappy because, you know, he was married or because he was married to me or if he was just unhappy with, you know, life altogether. And so it really, you know, sort of brought it...about a terrific discussion between the two of us. And the disillusionments we've had, you know, with the way that our marriage was working out and why this was happening. And I...I tried to talk to him about some of the things that I had talked to you about last week. But what it was was that I had told him that there were things that I wish that I could talk to him about and so he started pressuring me into telling him but at his pressuring me, I could see him, you know, building up this really, like, big defense thing because he was so afraid of really being shocked or really hurt. 00:01:58


COUNSELOR: So he was asking you to tell him but you knew that he really didn't want to hear...


PATIENT: No, he didn't and so I really, like, reached a point where I found that, you know, I would start to talk to him about something and I would start circling around it. And it ended up where I never really did say anything to him direct about anything. And, at first, I was kind of disappointed that I had backed down the way that I had but then I realized that maybe it was the best thing because...I mean, like, these are things that really bother me about myself but they aren't things that I think would help he and I together. Because, like, he told me a lot of things about our relationship that bothered him and I really was right about the way I had felt, you know, that our problems were so separate from one another and like, he's upset because he feels that we don't have the same interest and we can't share things.


COUNSELOR: Is that what you mean by problems are separate from each other? That he thinks something different is wrong with the marriage than you think is wrong with it? Okay. 00:03:22


PATIENT: Like you know, the big thing that according to him is like enjoying doing things together. And like sharing things and he said that I'm always turning him off about things and that I never read and so we can't, you know, do that and I don't have the same desires like, you know, as far as what my impression of a vacation is and what his is and things like that. And I...I think he's right, you know, because a lot of things that I find interesting in life are really, like something that I can only enjoy by myself. You know, I can't really share them with a husband, you know. And...


COUNSELOR: How did you feel about what he told you? 


PATIENT: Well, I...I just felt that everything he was saying was the truth. You know, I felt it coming on for a long time. 


COUNSELOR: So, it sort of masked the way things are and it's a little good to have it out in the open?


PATIENT: Like we...we haven't...you know, talked about it for a long time. We did when we first got married because I think we were both really aware then, you know, that we were so different. But we sort of found our own separate patterns and he started to just let me go my way and I let him go his way and I realize now that that was really wrong because we are like leading two separate lives and I don't even think that he expects me to sit down and read a book or something so that we could talk about it but if we if I would just do it occasionally, you know, like I have done it on occasion and it really...he gets a big kick out of it. You know, I know he really enjoys this and like about the vacations (inaudible) I guess that's not really that important but I think it was like an example to him, you know, that...that we really are different and unless we really strive to get back together again...all the other things are sort of, like incidental. That it's because of, you know, this division between us that...what has happened up to now...that's the reason for it. 00:06:08


COUNSELOR: So, like that seems like progress to you or something just to get that out in the open. 


PATIENT: Yeah, because things since then...he has been lot a more relaxed and I haven't, you know...it seemed like I really did snap out of my depression and I felt more like being with just him. Like we went out Saturday night and I had a nice time. I didn't really didn't care to, like be in the crowd. I was content to sit off with him and talk and, you know, comment on things that were going on around us and it was really funny because we had a friend with us and even though he was with us and he was a part of the conversation, I didn't feel like he was interfering with us and this was another thing that we brought up about, you know, why every time we go out or do something, we always have this...these two fellows come with us all the time. You know, it's sort of like so we don't have to talk to one another and I felt that that was wrong because I don't think that it was like that before. I think it's developed to be that way but I think that you can share other people's company and still have an enjoyable time together. 00:07:50


COUNSELOR: So, you didn't want him to say let's stop seeing them all together, you just wanted to say that that's what happened here?


PATIENT: And I feel that it really...like the conversation really did bring about a change in my attitude. You know, like I really had tried to be more relaxed and it's not...it doesn't seem to be as much tension on me. I'm not really worried about things and letting things that happened in the past get the better of me and I'm trying, you know, hard to...to get over this. You know this feeling of like, guilt and every time I think about something like being attracted to another man or something, that it doesn't really mean anything. You know, like it's just a normal reaction. 


COUNSELOR: It's okay to do that. That doesn't mean you're going to act on it...something like that? 00:09:07


PATIENT: See there's another big thing that I think always has bothered me since almost the beginning of our relationship and I talked about it before but not a lot and the thing that makes me bring it up now is that I was reading an article about it and I think it was the first time that I, you know, actually looked at it as something of moral (inaudible) it's like a normal reaction and not something that was shameful and that was masturbation. And I had, you know, like never done it before I met Charlie. And this had always (inaudible) you know, even when we were dating and I talked about it constantly. And he just kept saying oh, it's religious hang up you have and you think that you're going to, you know, go to hell, you know, if you do something like that. And...


COUNSELOR: He was just kind of pushing you away and it didn't quite help?


PATIENT: Because see it doesn't mean anything to him or he says it doesn't but I think it is different with a man. And it...he didn't really care to talk about it. And so, you know, ever since we've been married I'd go through these real...like guilt periods where you know, I'd say well, you're not ever going to do that anymore and you're going to stop. 00:10:50 And that's it and I would, like stop for a couple of weeks and then it would start all over again and I'd go through the same, you know, guilt and upset and all that all over again and then I kept thinking that maybe if I would quit doing that I would enjoy sex more because it was like a substitute for me. And so, then I would stop again and the thing that, you know, like really made me think about it this week was this article that I had read about these different women who were interviewed and like, all but one said that it was the only way that she could ever reach a climax was, you know, either to masturbate herself or have her husband or her boyfriend do it. And I guess it was sort of like, by my reading other people saying it, it was like for me to think well, it must not be that abnormal. I really thought that there was something wrong with me and then I thought back to the incident with the fellow and I had remembered that. Like, I hadn't masturbated for a whole month and I'm not blaming that on that but it just seemed strange to me. 00:12:28


COUNSELOR: You had not masturbated for a month? Or you had?


PATIENT: No, I hadn't.


COUNSELOR: You had not. 


PATIENT: And so you know, like since I wasn't masturbating and I wasn't having sex with my husband, it not a wonder to me, you know, that I should all of a sudden become a victim of this relationship and...


COUNSELOR: Like that would just be one extra thing that would push you into it?


PATIENT: Yeah, because it was sort of like I thought that by (inaudible) that I would become a different person. And I really found that...or now...that was interesting too because I realized to that although I had like...what I had considered a normal sexual response to him, it was really no different because he had to do the same thing to me that Charlie does and that I had no orgasm or anything during intercourse and it wasn't any different than my relationship with Charlie. And I, you know, feel that this is just me and I'm just going to have to learn to accept it...you know, a little bit more reasonably than I have in the past. 


COUNSELOR: That you come only when it's masturbation of some kind? 00:13:59


PATIENT: And that by my doing it to myself, doesn't mean that I'm like preventing myself from having a normal sexual relationship with my husband and that I would all of a sudden, just turn off to him because I don't need him and I don't feel that that was the real reason for our sexual separation to begin with and I felt that for a long time it was not only because I masturbated because he did too, you know?


COUNSELOR: It was almost like you were putting everything on that or something? That was the reason. 


PATIENT: And...


COUNSELOR: Not only that but you have to feel guilty about it because there's something wrong with it. 


PATIENT: And that's...and...see like...we talked a little bit last night about, you know, our sexual relationship and he said something like, well, I was going to make love to you when you came home Monday night from shopping but then when you came home we got into an argument, which we did, and so maybe, you know, that's another reason because we've both been under so much pressure lately and he's been so tense about things and I know I have too and like I didn't even go to bed until, you know, 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning because I can't sleep and you know, so the thought of making love doesn't even enter my mind. 00:16:01 And I think it's sort of like the life that we're leading. You know, I talk to him about this...that it's...it's sort of like so mixed up and that if you don't, you know, have some type of schedule or organization to your existence, then you can't just expect things to happen normally, you know? And it's not...go ahead.


COUNSELOR: Are you saying like this is a new thing for you? That...to find all these new explanations for why your sexual things going on? So like always before it was like it was only masturbation (inaudible) and now there are all these other things that maybe could be made better. 


PATIENT: It was masturbation and also the fact that I knew that something was wrong but I couldn't really figure out why. (overlapping voices) 00:17:12


COUNSELOR: So, now it's like that's opening up or something and you can see different places where things are wrong?


PATIENT: And I think the thing that bothered me before too was that it bothered me but I couldn't do anything about it and I didn't do anything about it because I didn't know why it was this way. And I feel that like now at least we're talking about reasons and not just that...like before we'd say well, you know, this is really a problem and we're going to have to do something about it. But there was never a reason. And like I can't still get...see I have a feeling that there's still more to it. But there's still this barrier that is between us about...I think something that is bothering Charlie that he can't talk about and you know, I'm hoping that he'll be able to get it out of him. Because you know, like we only talk about everything that we talk about here but just in talking to him, you know, I feel that he hasn't really opened up, you know...just by what he has said to me and I think he's aware of it but he keeps telling me that he doesn't have the problems that I do. That a lot of his problems he worked out a long time ago and so I'm just not saying anything and just hoping that it'll change; that somewhere along the line he'll reach a point where he can, you know, break down and start letting things come out because I'm positive that there...there's something there that I couldn't even begin to understand right now. 00:19:19


COUNSELOR: And couldn't get him to talk about?


PATIENT: Because I still feel a gap even when we're really talking about something that is new for us, you know, to be aware of as a problem; that there's something still being held back. Like I know I've held back from telling him things but I think for a different reason and I think he's also aware of the fact that I'm not as sensitive as he is about things. And about things that, you know, are about his character or behavior or things that he did in the past. You know, I don't react the same way he does. 


COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) I guess (inaudible) you're less sensitive than he is to...?


PATIENT: Sort of like, you know, before when I talked to you about...you know, like he had told me of different experiences of when he was single and that, it didn't bother me the way that I'm sure it would have bothered him, if the tables had been turned because I just don't think about it. I don't know if it's because I'm more concerned with my own (inaudible) and you know, like when he talks to me about these things, I don't really think they're that important. And....


COUNSELOR: You mean maybe you're not really getting into him or....maybe you're not really understanding him somehow; maybe it's just that you're too caught up inside your head or...? 00:21:10


PATIENT: No, I don't...no, I think what I'm trying to say is that it's like, in some respects, it's easier for him to talk to me because I don't think he has that tension that I have when I'm talking to him. Like I'm always afraid that I'm going to say the wrong thing and with him, you know, he can talk pretty openly about himself to me and I think he's aware of this but yet I think he's holding back something, not for my benefit but because he himself has been able to cope with it. 


COUNSELOR: So, you hold things back but you know you hold them back but he doesn't know?


PATIENT: And like, I definitely feel the things that I have held back from telling him. Like a lot of these things about my sexual hang ups and that...well, that's different. I really do wish he'd let me talk to him about that. But I think, like, anything that's really personal I don't feel the necessity to discuss with him. Now...I did, you know, up until, say even last week. But I think that that discussion we had made me really aware of the fact that it would be bad, especially right now. You know, because I have a feeling and I really had it last week, that he is very unsure of his relationship with me and it's not just me anymore but it's himself and I...I don't know, you know, like how he would have really reacted if I would have said, okay, then why don't we just separate for a while. I think he would have said okay last week and I didn't really want that to happen. I realized that then. 00:23:32


COUNSELOR: So, if you really laid everything out on the table you would have to say let's separate but it seems like he's just beginning to make some progress and you don't want to disrupt that because it might turn out better and then you wouldn't have to separate.


PATIENT: Yes. See I really believe, I guess, that we're not ready for divorce court. I think that, you know, the problems we have can be worked out and I feel that the fact that we don't have children...we have the time and the attention to give to both our own problems and each others. And I feel that there's still something there that could be salvaged, you know? And...


COUNSELOR: How does that fit together then? I mean, like, if...last week you were feeling like you were ready to separate but on the other hand, you're feeling like let's keep going. I mean, sort of have both...?


PATIENT: I think that when I think about separating or when I talk about it, it's something that I don't like to face because it's something that I don't know if I could go through it, you know? I'm sure that if it ever happens, you know, I would get through it but I can't really face the reality of it. 00:25:10


COUNSELOR: So, it's like you might want to get out of the relationship now but the fact that being alone is holding you back? 


PATIENT: Like when I think about...you know, sometimes when I think about all the problems that we have and coping with them and having, you know, then I starting getting this real...into this real depression and then I start becoming very unhappy and I start blaming everything on the marriage and so, it's like I wish that I could just turn my back on the whole thing and walk out but when things start fitting into place for me and I find that there are answers to the things (inaudible) and then I get out of this depression like I did this week, then I feel that, you know, like a separation is really not the answer for me. And maybe the fact that, you know, like when he was talking about how unhappy he was last week, you know, I think that too kind of threw me, you know? It's sort of like...it's great to have your cake and eat it too, like if I could think that way and be upset, you know, that's fine. But for him to say it, it really threw me off guard, you know? And if made me see that maybe it had come to that and it wasn't just something that I would think about to satisfy my own needs, but that it could really happen. 


COUNSELOR: It really became a reality. 00:27:16


PATIENT: And it really, you know, like it really panicked me for a while until I took hold of myself and you know, started calming down and then we started talking but...I...I feel that, you know, like a lot of the...I always felt that I like really knew him, you know, and in many respects, I do feel that I can be more responsive to him because I can understand him a little bit more than he understands me but I'm beginning to wonder about that now. And...


COUNSELOR: You mean to question yourself or question him or...?


PATIENT: Well, maybe to question myself because, you know, maybe I was giving myself too much credit for something that I really didn't have and also to question him because I'm wondering if there have been a lot of things that, you know, like he's been pushing away in the back of his mind, you know, instead of letting it come to the surface; things that I'm not even aware of. 


COUNSELOR: So, you're asking yourself how much do I understand him and how much is he letting out? Right? 00:29:03


PATIENT: I think that, in a way, maybe that would be a good reason to start...not completely excluding our friends from our lives but to start spending a little bit more time with each other. There is one thing that's funny...it's happened on several occasions when we're out and it especially happens if he has a little bit too much to drink and he'll start talking about things that I'm not even aware of that that's the way he really thinks and it kind of surprises me because it seems like he waits until...at such an opportunity, you know, that we really can't go into it because there's an outsider there and, of course, you really can't reason with someone when they've been drinking and so what happens is it ends up in an argument and nothing really ever comes of it, you know?


COUNSELOR: It's like always frustrating. It's like you always find it out when you can't talk about it. And, too, it's almost like you never got to know him or something, you know, like you were with him all those years and then these things keep popping out at funny times.


PATIENT: And I feel that...I don't know. It's sort of like, you know, he always tells me about how he talked to somebody at work about this problem or he talked to somebody at work about that problem and...or a friend, you know, and I really wonder what he's talking about. You know, I can't figure it out. Because I know that like...I think a lot of our problems are really personal problems; something that I wouldn't even consider just...I'd even have to think twice about talking to a good friend about. I feel that, you know, like if these things are really bothering him, that he should be able to talk to me about them and not have to go to a total stranger. And I guess, in a way, it makes me angry to think, you know, that an outsider would know that much. 00:31:51


COUNSELOR: Yeah, when you can't even talk about them properly with you; what's he doing talking to somebody else about that. 


PATIENT: Like he resented my telling the few people who I did that we were going to therapy, you know, because he felt that...I don't know what he thought. You know, maybe that people would think something was wrong with us or, you know, that we were on the verge of splitting up and this was the only recourse we could take or something. And yet, like he's mentioned it to people very casually. (overlapping voices) You know, like if nobody thinks....


COUNSELOR: So you're feeling like it's not fair or something. I mean, he tells people, why shouldn't I be able to?


PATIENT: And...like I know the people that he's talk to work...talked about it at work; not only know that we're going but I think a couple of them even know why we're going. And so I know that he has gotten involved in conversations with them and I don't know...like I feel that, you know, like it's really working for me and I've talked to him about this and yet, I don't get the same reaction from him. You know, I'm almost getting...I...sometimes I almost feel that the only reason he's coming is because...like, well, if you go then I should go too. 00:33:31 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: Like...well, since I was the one that brought it up, you know, I...when I brought it up like, I said, you know, I think that I need to go to somebody because like things are really getting bad for me. And maybe it was partially my fault because I didn't go into detail, you know, I just sort of left him with the idea that I needed help but I thought that I needed help because of our relationship, which was partially true but not all the way. I would have been willing to go alone, I mean, at the time, I felt that this was all we needed and so then when he, like, made the appointments up here, at first I thought that it was going to be like a combined thing; like he and I were going to go together and I got really uptight about it because...I don't think I would have minded if, later on, there would have been a combination meeting but in the beginning I didn't want that. And then when I found out it was going to be separate and he found out it was going to be separate, he seemed to get upset about it and I have the feeling that he thought it was going to be combination right from the beginning. And I said, well, maybe we're doing the wrong thing. You know maybe we should go see a marriage counselor but I don't...well, then I didn't feel that that would be the solution to the problem. And now, you know, I really wonder if he didn't just sign up for this because it was, you know, like....so that we could work together. You know, like because I was going then he should go, you know, so that... 00:36:03


COUNSELOR: Somehow...what he wanted all along was to work together with you somehow.


PATIENT: But the only thing is that sometimes I think about the whole thing and I think for, you know, maybe his purpose, a marriage counselor or something like that would have been good, you know? Like to work out the marital problems. I don't know how deep they go but only because I feel...you know, like I said before that I don't know what this is doing for him and the...like I feel, in some ways, it has changed me and it's made me more aware of myself and things that I'm doing and I find, you know, that I'm thinking about it constantly and like if I do something, you know, I think about why I did it or why I reacted the way I did. And I just don't have the feeling that...I don't know if we're supposed to be getting the same things out of it. I, you know...I don't really know.


COUNSELOR: You mean each of you getting the same things out of it individually?


PATIENT: Well, it's sort of like, you know, I had a feeling form the beginning that somewhere along the line we would start tying things together, you know, and I don't know if this will still come but I don't feel that it's come up until now. 


COUNSELOR: And you want that? 00:37:45


PATIENT: See like when...a lot of times like when we...we will all meet downstairs, you know, I'll say something about something that happened up here and then I'll start talking about it even if it upsets me. I may not go into particulars but I'll say, you know I really (inaudible) I talked about a lot of things that, you know, I've held back for a long time and things that I never thought I could talk about and stuff like that but like, for instance, last week...as soon as he came downstairs I knew something was wrong. We got in the car and we were like two blocks away and I finally had to say, what's wrong with you? You know, why are you...why are you so quiet? And he says, "Well, I don't know." and like I had to pull it out of him and if I had just sat back and not said anything, I...you know, we probably would have gone through the whole evening and not ever talk; even what we did talk.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like the way it is, is that things don't get pulled together and to be able to do that, you have to put out a lot. 


PATIENT: It's so individual now, you know, and I keep thinking that it's...maybe it's because I have the whole wrong idea of what this is all supposed to do and mean and...yeah, I feel that if that's the case, you know, that it's that individual then I can't see how it could possibly help the two of us to work out the problems we have together. 00:39:28


COUNSELOR: So you're not satisfied with it?


PATIENT: I'm satisfied with it for myself, you know.


COUNSELOR: But not for both of you. 


PATIENT: But not for both of us only because, you know, I don't...I don't think that it has done that much for us. You know? Individually it has and like when I...when I went in to him that night about...well, actually that last time, not this last time, but you know, like six weeks ago and he got so upset and everything, you know, because he said that I had more or less told him that he wasn't...oh, the kind of husband that he thought he should be; you know, protective and you know, that I indicated to him that I thought he hadn't lived up to my ideal of what a husband should be. And he got all upset about it and everything. And then like when I wanted to talk to him about it the next day when he came home because he was still upset about it the next day, he really didn't want to talk about it anymore. Like he wanted to let me know that he was upset about it and he had thought about it all day...but I think there should have been a point in there somewhere along the lines where he could have reached some conclusions that he would have told me about. But instead I ended up like pampering him, you know, and telling him, now look, I was talking to you honestly because I thought that's what we were supposed to do. But just because of what I said to you doesn't mean that I don't love him and then I went into this whole, you know, like building up confidence routine and you know, see that strikes me funny because I was the one that was supposed to have all the problems and all the...you know, great depression and everything. 


COUNSELOR: And all of a sudden he had some too. 00:42:12


PATIENT: And like it didn't really bother me to do that, you know, but I keep waiting for some kind of turning point and there isn't any. You know, it's sort of like when something is said to him that really upsets him, it's like...you know, he'll dwell on it within himself but he won't release any kind of emotion. Like the only emotion that comes out is you've upset me, you know, or the things you said to me really hurt me, you know? That's why it just goes back to the same thing...I could never really talk to him about anything, you know, that I felt affected me personally because we'd never be able to talk about it.


COUNSELOR: Because all you get is that same thing? Is that what you're saying?


PATIENT: I think...well, god knows what I'd get, you know, if I ever told him anything really shocking. 


COUNSELOR: So, is it that you don't know what to expect or that he's giving you so little all this time that you just don't know what you'd get? 


PATIENT: I don't...I have no idea what I'd get. I'd probably get a (inaudible) you know, is what I'd get. And the next day he might come back and say something like I'm sorry I left but you really upset me and then that would be the end of it. 


COUNSELOR: So, you just don't know what's going on inside him. You don't know what feelings he has. He never gives you much to go on. 00:43:59


PATIENT: See it's like I'm...I think like a lot of times when...I know before when I used to be...get upset and that, you know, I would sort of like rather be left alone and not be forced to talk about it. But now I find, you know, like if I'm depressed or something, you know, I really start going into it with him. And then he gets real upset about that, you know?


COUNSELOR: Everything upsets him. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Like he feels like he has to find a reason why I'm this way and I think it bothers him that he can't solve my problems. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, so, it's like you just can't talk about your feelings with each other...just the feelings; like he can't get into that with you. 


PATIENT: Well, I think it still goes back to what...I've argued with him so much about and then, you know, these...this whole thing that he's got with his work. It's like he's just...he has gotten so wrapped up in it and like every psychological problem has to have a solution to it that, you know, it even works that way in our marriage. 


COUNSELOR: It doesn't help you to have him solving your problems because you want him to hear how you're feeling. 


PATIENT: And I don't, you know, like I want him to tell me how he feels about something. If he gets...the only real emotion, you know, that he's ever really outspoken on is anger. If you do something that really angers him or makes him mad, he can release it immediately. And by releasing, you know, which I don't even know if this is normal, but like he'll throw things or he'll use, you know, a lot of profanity and so I guess really sort of like a tantrum fit. And that's sort of...that used to get me really upset. I would just fall apart at the seams when he...this would happen, you know? I would take it so personally and then I went through that stage where I would shout back and really carry on just the way he does and now when he does this, it just really turns me off. I just walk out of the room. And then he gets twice as angry because he thinks that I'm like turning my back on him; that I don't...I'm not...that I don't want to listen to him and you know, sometimes I almost have to laugh. You know, because it's not that at all but I just don't care to be a part of it. 00:46:54


COUNSELOR: If he'd just tell you how he was feeling, that would be fine but to throw such a fit is kind of crazy. 


PATIENT: And it really kind of...you know, like in a way, I guess it worries me because I feel like, you know, it's...that he's like reaching a boiling point of like the pressures that I feel he has are really there, you know, and in times like this, they really come out. 


COUNSELOR: Scary. (overlapping voices) sometimes he might get more upset and more violent.


PATIENT: Yeah. I talked to him about this like, you know, like...well, you certainly wouldn't act this way if you have children, you know...you know, you couldn't with all the profanity and the throwing and like the names you call me, you know, like you couldn't call the mother of your children these names in front of them; what would they think, you know? They'd be so off balance, they wouldn't be normal for the rest of their lives. He'll just pass it off like it's no big thing but that...I think about that a lot and it really worries me because I don't think it would stop with children. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's real important for you not to have him behave that way. 


PATIENT: See it's like, you know, he'll criticize me because I am irresponsible. I never write things down and I forget to do things and I realize that, you know, at times, that is important but I don't think that it could be put on the same level as that. Whenever anything like that happens and I bring it up and, you know, he'll say, well, you know, you're so careless you just...how do you think that's going to affect the children? 00:48:54


COUNSELOR: It sounds like...since neither one you is really hearing how the other one feels kind of, that you get into these discussions about what would be good for the children and not good for the children and that's really not where it's at or something. I mean you're sitting there feeling scared and it's like you don't want him to do that; you want him to talk to you, for heaven's sake. And who knows what he's feeling; like we don't know but it's like when you get to that point it's already so far out of hand that all you can do is have these arguments that don't mean much or something. 


PATIENT: Well, I guess that's the reason that I do it is because there was appoint where I, you know, would ask him why he did these things; just why did you do these things. Not is this how you're going to act when we have children? And I never would get an answer so maybe I think that it's like we're playing a game, you know, like if I throw something up to him, you know, that like he should be impressed with, you know, since he's always dealing with children and their problems, that this would mean something to him; like make him sit down and look at himself and say, well, you know, gee, why do I act this way? And will I act this way when it's going to affect someone else besides just myself and my wife? You know? 


COUNSELOR: Trying to get him to look at himself. 


PATIENT: I don't know if it's that I, you know...I sometimes think that it's just myself but I have seen other people provoke this anger in him. I can...I know there are points when you get so angry you just don't know what to do with yourself. But you can't get this way over everything. And a lot of times, you know, if you kind of just hold back for a few minutes, you know...well, this is what I do. But I mean this is what I try to talk to him about, you know, but I don't know why he explodes the way he does and I suppose that, you know, in a way, it's wrong for me to walk out and just leave him standing there because that even makes him angrier and it doesn't really solve the problem because he doesn't know what I'm really thinking but I don't; know how else to cope with it anymore. 


COUNSELOR: Like you're just blocked there. You don't know how he's feeling and he doesn't know how you're feeling and it's a mess. 00:51:44


PATIENT: And...and of course, a lot of times the...not so much the anger but the hostility and that will come out in the drinking, you know, and like I've had the impression that he's really been making a big effort, you know, to refrain from that but I don't' want him to do it just for me. I mean this was the thing that got me so uptight when I talked to him about this. He kept saying that I was bugging him about the drinking, you know, and I kept trying to tell him that it didn't only affect me but it affected people that we were friends with. You know, he was getting a little bit too outspoken with people and really like tactfully insulting them. And it was making things uncomfortable for me, you know, because of that, so when I would start to hound him about it, he would think that it was because I personally was unhappy with it but I couldn't believe that he was acting that way. That's what bothered me and...


COUNSELOR: I don't understand the difference because it's like you're...making you uncomfortable because you're embarrassed in front of your friends or something and embarrasses you on top of that and...? 00:53:24


PATIENT: Well, see the first few times that it happened, you know, he would like take his hostility out on me and of course, that upset me a lot, you know, because like a couple of times he grabbed me and things like that and that really scared me. And so we sort of like solved that problem. Well, we solved that problem for two reasons. You know, number one I don't go near him now when he's that way and I try not to antagonize him and so I don't know if that's really a solution because I'm like staying out of the way. But then what started to creep into this was the attack on other people, you know? And, you know, who weren't really doing anything to provoke him. But people...it was funny because it was people I think that really bugged him anyway. Then when he'd get the opportunity...


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: ...and...so, it didn't really...it didn't so much embarrass me...well, it did to a point. It has to when anybody who's close to you does something, you know, in public that isn't right. It embarrasses you. But that didn't bother me as much as why he was doing it, you know, and this was why we never could get to it. I mean, this was...this was the thing we could never get to. Like I often felt that the things that he did to me were because there was things about me that really bugged the hell out of him. And when he'd have the opportunity, you know, with liquor as an excuse, you know, but these poor people didn't do anything outwardly and they'd get it. Well, now that's sort of like seemed to have ceased but I wonder why it's ceased. I think it's ceased because I bugged him and, you know, hounded him so much about it. 00:55:38


COUNSELOR: And you don't want to seem like a nagging bitch or something, you know, you want him to see how it's bad for him. 


PATIENT: Like I really don't, you know, this was the thing...he kept saying the reason I drink so much is because as soon as we get somewhere you start hounding me about how much liquor I'm drinking and I'd say, well, do you ever think it could be because I'm afraid of what's going to happen because of past experiences. And so now I try really not to nag like, you know....but then I find like, you know, I'm really going out of my way to ignore him so that I'm not aware of what he's doing. 


COUNSELOR: Which isn't any good either. 


PATIENT: Right. And so...


COUNSELOR: Have you tried just saying to him how badly it makes you feel?


PATIENT: Yeah. I...I really have, you know, I've...I feel like I have anyway. I mean I've talked to him and I tried to explain to him that, you know, I'm not happy when he's this way; that he's so much more fun and so much more likeable when he's his own normal self and that I can't understand why he feels, you know, that it's so important to just drink and drink and drink beyond the point of rationalization...you know, I mean reality; like all of a sudden you're just in your own world and...I don't...you know, it goes back to the same thing all over again. There's always an answer for it but it's an answer that, you know, it's a pan answer. It's not something that you can place on yourself personally. I think that, you know... 00:57:40


COUNSELOR: You know, he doesn't do that? He doesn't...there's nothing he owns, right?


PATIENT: Well, I think that happens a lot when, you know, like...he's read and become so involved with so many people's problems that it's not like an individual thing anymore. Like I know I have a bad habit of when I read something, you know, I always identify myself with it. And sometimes I actually become obsessed with the idea that that's really my problem too and that I should solve it the same way they did. And I don't think that's right. The only thing is that I'm not as involved in it as he is so it doesn't affect me in the same way, you know? I might think about it for a day or two but then I forget about it. But I think that that's the reason why the relationship that we have is where it's at now because it's been psychoanalyzed so much that it's, you know... 00:59:20


COUNSELOR: So it's never him, it's always something he's read kind of or....you never get the feeling that he's a real person....


PATIENT: Well, he doesn't quote but I feel that he might as well be quoting, you know, because number one technical terms don't mean a thing to me. And I don't want, you know, like big fancy answers because they don't mean anything to me. And I don't think they mean anything to him either. I guess that I wouldn't even really be aware of it as being a problem if it hadn't come up into our conversation so much about other people. I mean like sometimes I really get these really, really bad feelings because of the way that we rip our friends apart and I don't mean that it's like maliciously or gossipy or anything like that but that, you know, the way that they do things. There's a reason for it. 


COUNSELOR: Analyze (overlapping voices) 


PATIENT: We really go into it, you know, and I'm starting to do the same thing. I find that I do it at work all the time and for a while...you know, like once in a while he'll kid me on something, you know you really are perceptive. You can really pick things out. And I do because I'm looking for things now. 


COUNSELOR: He did that to you or something. 00:61:06


PATIENT: And I do it, you know, with people that we're friend with and I'm always watching, you know, and listening for little things and then I always put pieces together, you know, and you usually do get the right answer but what good does it do you? And it's really...


COUNSELOR: Like you shouldn't do that with your friends. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Much less your wife.


PATIENT: And I think that, you know, that's why I'm aware of the fact that (inaudible) because I think, like for a long time it was happening in our marriage but I wasn't aware of it. It didn't really start happening with our friends until I went back to school and then he was into it all the time. And then I got into it and then, I mean like we do it together now. And I was, you know, like the one that was really starting to become super conscious of it because I'd start thinking this is absolutely ridiculous and we'd talk about it, you know, and then it started to hit me, you know, that it was what our lives were all about completely. And that we really weren't trying to find out what was wrong with us and like to find our own solution to the problem.


COUNSELOR: Like helping you avoid it. (overlapping voices) 


PATIENT: Okay. So, I don't know but...can I ask you a question? 00:63:01


COUNSELOR: Fire.


PATIENT: Will there ever come a time that we can start tying this thing together? I mean will it...you know, or will it just be up to the two of us? 


COUNSELOR: It is...yeah, it's up to you. 


PATIENT: Oh.


COUNSELOR: This particular...I mean you're in the research program which is only individual for twenty sessions, which kind of gives you an out, in a way. I mean you could do twenty sessions and then, you know, since that was over, you could do something together if you wanted but, you know, the way this one thing is set up it's only individual. That's not saying we would stop you, it's just saying that's the form. 


PATIENT: But what...what I'm getting at is, is that like at the end of the twenty sessions, you know? If like, for instance, I would feel that it can't stop now, is there something else that we could go into, you know? 


COUNSELOR: Oh, yeah. Sure. You would just have to go through the procedures of getting it arranged. Yeah, right. People here do marriage counseling. Although there is one complicating factor, which is that this center is going to close in the summer which I should tell you anyway, so I don't know how that would work...for whatever that's worth. But yes, people here do do that. 00:64:40


PATIENT: Alright. Well, I was just wondering because I thought, you know, that...I guess I sort of had the impression that (inaudible) twenty sessions and (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Fold up your tents.


PATIENT: Yeah and I really wonder if that's, you know, going to be the end of it. I don't think it will.


COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) I mean that's up to you. 


PATIENT: Okay. 


COUNSELOR: See you next week. 


END TRANSCRIPT
