Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So, let's see, let's not worry — well, let me think, there's two questions, I guess. One will they take claims going back to the beginning of the year. Some places will only do like three months back.
CLIENT: They said they would on the phone.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay, great.
CLIENT: They said you had a year window.
THERAPIST: Oh, you told me that. I'm sorry, I forgot.
CLIENT: That's okay.
THERAPIST: Going over information I try not to forget insurance information (overlapping voices at 00:55.01) All right, so we're good there. Yeah, maybe it would make sense, if you don't mind, giving them a buzz to find out about the co-pay.
CLIENT: Yeah.
[01:07.00]
THERAPIST: I guess there's two other questions. One is the co-pay, and the other is the reimbursement rate. Because some insurance companies, they may say well, we think psychotherapy should cost 110 bucks, and then you have a $25 co-pay, so we're sending your therapist a check for 85 bucks.
CLIENT: I get it.
THERAPIST: In which case your co-pay — you have to make up the difference, but with the recording I don't think will be too bad. It would be like, I guess, 15 bucks.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
[01:50.6]
THERAPIST: Or they might say well, you know, whatever, we pay 80 percent of the, you know, what I bill which is, I bill them 150, I billed them 150. So, you know, in that case, you'd be all set as far as the co-pay. I'm trying to think. You could pay, although it wouldn't Jeffer, because you're like ahead anyway, because you paid me already for the year. So I guess it's, I mean, for like a few months so far. I forget exactly what you've given me, I have it obviously, but you've hit the deductible already.
[02:32.5]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I guess, worrying through all of this, like - my guess is we're probably not that far off even. I mean, you know, I may owe you money, right, because from what you paid me already this year.
CLIENT: Once they send you the check -
THERAPIST: Exactly.
CLIENT: For the reimbursement.
THERAPIST: Right. It's possible, yeah, I would owe you like a little money there, or you would owe me a little money if their reimbursement rate was low.
CLIENT: Yeah.
[03:21.8]
THERAPIST: And so that, plus what you've paid me already, didn't add up to all the sessions so far. But actually, thinking about it, it's probably going be pretty - my guess is it won't be that far off either way. So if you want to call, we can figure that out in advance, that's fine. Otherwise, I can just wait to hear back from them and they'll indicate when I'll get the check and I'll see how much it's for. That will clear things up. So, either way, I'll probably know from them within, you know, it might be two, three, four weeks, something like that.
CLIENT: I can give them a call and just see. You think if I just say I have a claim from like Dr. [Anonymous], you think they'll be able to like look it up maybe? Or will it like prod them to do something?
THERAPIST: Just ask them like, "what's your reimbursement rate and I want to know more about my co-pays from the (inaudible at 04:17.4)."
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And the reimbursement rate would be like for a psychologist for psychotherapy, like a 45-minute psychotherapy visit.
CLIENT: Okay. I'll ask them about that.
[04:31.2]
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, that sort of thing that's, from my guess, it's like I said that we're probably going to be not too far off of even, one way or another.
CLIENT: Okay. What month is it?
THERAPIST: April.
CLIENT: (Laughter) So am I right that I paid you for last month, and then this month you billed it, so I was thinking maybe the bill would come through. But I could also -
THERAPIST: No, let's wait and see, again, don't do anything. Let's wait and see what happens.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I think it's as likely as anything else that you're ahead.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah, don't worry about it.
CLIENT: Okay. Well, I'll give them a call and try and get an estimate then. Hopefully they'll (overlapping voices at 05:15.5) (laughter). I'm seeing my prescriber with my mom Friday.
[05:25.0]
THERAPIST: Oh good. And she will probably want to talk to me at some point. I mean, I haven't talked to her beyond the like initial clinical information I gave to her, which I sort of need to give in order for somebody to make a decision whether you're appropriate for the practice. But I haven't talked to her. She may want to talk to me after talking with you. Do you want me to do that? Do you want to wait until you and I meet again after you've seen her?
CLIENT: Maybe I'll ask her, you know, if she wants to talk to you again on Friday.
THERAPIST: She'll probably want to talk to me at some point. I think I remember with your other prescriber, you didn't particularly want me to talk to her, that's why I'm like -
[06:30.9]
CLIENT: Oh. No, I mean, she sounded really nice so you can talk to her whenever you want (laughter).
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, like I said, I've heard really great things about her.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, she sounded really welcoming.
THERAPIST: Good, good. Well I guess that's all (inaudible at 06:56.0).
CLIENT: (Laughter) Okay, cool. Let's see. So, yes, I think there are a couple of things that happened that I didn't get to mention last week. One thing was that I had shown an extract of my novel to my friend Michelle since she's acting as a reference for the writers' groups. And that made me extremely, extremely nervous. But she really loved it and was excited about it.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And said very positive things.
[07:28.7]
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great.
CLIENT: Yeah, and she said she like really looks forward to reading more and learning about my characters.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So I mean, that was really nice.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I haven't shown any of it to anyone, so I was very nervous.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So it was nice to get such a positive response from someone. And then I heard back from one of the groups that said they didn't, you know, they weren't going to be publishing it, but I was one of the finalists.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And that they really liked my writing.
THERAPIST: Oh wow.
CLIENT: And, I mean, who knows how many people they say that to. They have an incentive to make you apply again -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Cause that means more money. So I'm not going to like read too much into that. But I think if they thought it totally sucked, they wouldn't want to make their colony look bad. Like they probably don't say that to every single person (laughter).
THERAPIST: Right. Which one was that? I've heard of a few of these, but not many.
CLIENT: The writer group in Bristol. The famous ones had deadlines in January, so I didn't apply cause I hadn't thought about it.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
[08:31.1]
CLIENT: But, so, I have yet to hear back from one more. And there was one that I thought was happening this summer, but it's actually for like next summer. It's due in a month. So I'm going to apply to that one, but, you know, I won't hear back from them for a long time, cause it's like over a year from now. So, yeah, it's looking like I'm going to have to figure out what to do this summer. It's going to be a little stressful.
THERAPIST: The job won't continue?
CLIENT: No, I mean, they wanted me for two projects and I haven't gotten as many hours as I hoped at the job. For one thing, just because of my own fault because I keep getting ideas for the novel. I'm working on that and then like having a hard time focusing on the writing. And when you're getting paid by the hour to write, like you don't want to charge them for hours that aren't really focused and productive.
[09:36.4]
So I'll find myself like having a hard time getting my focus and not charging them for what I'm doing because I'm not doing it well. So it's like taking up some time that is, you know, time that I spend doing that is the time that I'm not getting paid for. And there are times when also I'm working slowly and I'll charge then for one hour when I've spent two or three hours working on it. So I'm not getting as much money from that as I sort of hoped, that it's like my fault. Although there's also like a certain amount of work that needs to be done, and it's not infinite. So it's like partly situational, partly like my mind not working in the way that it should.
[10:25.7]
And that's been really frustrating because I would like to, you know, the first two weeks when I was doing the job, my focus was great. And I was so relieved because it felt really good to be focusing and like writing continuously. It seemed like I had done away with some of these problems. Then they came back, and I don't really know why except it was clear that like ideas for the novel kept coming and threatening to go away if I didn't write them down (laughter). And at least like make a sketch of the theme or write down some of the descriptive language that was coming to mind.
[11:16.3]
And it reminded me a little bit of the stuff with the mechanism from the past because it was sort of something unconscious saying "what you're doing is not important, do this instead," and it being really like inconvenient to do that.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: So that was disheartening, or it has been disheartening.
THERAPIST: How bad has that been? I mean, how much has that affected your productivity with the writing?
CLIENT: Well it's strange, like there have been some days when I haven't been able to do any of the freelance work at all, and other days when it's totally normal. Usually it's in-between, and I never know when I wake up in the morning what kind of day it's going to be. Like Monday I woke up and I thought I was going to have a totally horrible day, and actually like felt like really suicidal in the morning, and just so extremely depressed.
[12:25.1]
And then I went to a cafe that I hadn't been to in awhile and put in like five straight hours of really solid productive work. So I don't know what changed, or like why Monday was so like extreme in both directions. It's pretty baffling.
THERAPIST: Have you been feeling suicidal much lately? I mean, that's something you usually talk about.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, it seems sort of pointless to talk about it because I'm not actually going to do anything about it. So it feels lame. I always feel like some like 13-year-old emo kid or something if I talk about that when I know I'm not in danger of actually doing it (laughter).
[13:14.9]
THERAPIST: You don't talk about it for reasons of lameness?
CLIENT: Yeah (laughter).
THERAPIST: Who knows where it would lead. I mean, there might be things to be learned from that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying you have to talk about it or that you ought to talk about it. But I guess - (pause). I mean, it sounds like (inaudible at 13:58.2) about your feeling and, I don't know, but is that all for different reasons? I mean, I don't know if it's you're feeling frustrated with yourself or despairing about your life or, you know what I mean? Like - (pause). Is it something I imagine to be a symptom like other symptoms, you know?
[14:26.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that's true. I mean, it definitely ties in with feeling really uncertain about the future and frustrated with my continuing inability to control my mind. It just seems very worrisome in terms of like how I'm going to make money in the future. That's sort of how it comes up the most frequently.
[15:11.0]
THERAPIST: Can you be more specific? Like I'm trying to make sense of what you mean.
CLIENT: Well, I guess like Monday mornings are, the train of thought was like I was just feeling so disconnected to anything here. And, I mean, that's one thing I could have sort of handled better with the freelance work. I think if I like communicated with them more, or like went into the office and met them or something, like I might feel more connected to the company and stuff. But since I haven't done that, like I've never met my employers, and they're not very specific about what they want. Although they did say they want me to like finish the project faster, so I know I need to speed up the pace.
[16:02.2]
But, so my employment situation feels really like disconnected, like I could be doing that from anywhere. I don't leave, I mean, I go back and forth between my apartment and Jeff's apartment, which are like five minutes away from each other, and I try not to be out too much because I don't want to run into people I know. So there's this sense of, sort of, being a prisoner here, in a way (laughter). And there are, you know, a few cafes that I go to, but I go to them because I'm unlikely to see people I know.
Like it's so hard to find parking here, it's not like I can go to these places that are driving distance and stay for too many hours because, you know, you have to pay for metered parking (laughter). And it all just seems very strange that I'm here, and I mean, you know, things really rooting me here as Jeff, as like maybe going back to school in the fall, like we'll see. I haven't been in touch with Brown, so who knows. That uncertainty definitely bothers me.
[17:12.5]
And, I don't know, I mean it's kind of a depressing life, having like one thing rooting me to where I am. And I guess, you know, like my apartment, my roommates do too. But like I don't think I'm going to really talk to Jason after he moves in with his girlfriend in the fall. And Sue, like we were getting along for a bit, but we're not like not getting along now. But sometimes I get so frustrated because I try to say things to her that are helpful and then nothing ever helps, and I get really frustrated seeing her make the same mistakes over and over. So, I mean, I guess Monday morning I was just feeling like I have a pretty depressing life and I wasn't sure when or how it was going to get better.
[18:11.4]
(Pause) And I mean, having the novel is nice but that's uncertain. I think it's easier to feel, to like avoid suicidal feelings if you have more, sort of, concrete links to other people and like, I don't know, just things tethering you to your life and the place where you live (pause).
THERAPIST: Do you have a sense what it is about being disconnected?
CLIENT: Well, it has changed because on one level, like I want to be disconnected and, you know, I want to have like some connections. But I like having a lot of time to myself, because time to myself is like theoretically predictable time when I can work on things, but that seem important to work on.
[9:32.6]
And I could be doing a lot more to like try to make friends, and like that's not appealing really. But being this sort of context-less makes it hard to feel like I exist really, or to feel good about anything, I don't know (pause).
[20:18.8]
THERAPIST: Is it (inaudible at 20:18.4) you exist?
CLIENT: Sort of (laughter).
THERAPIST: This is a kind of thing on a map someplace, a pin on a map someplace?
CLIENT: Yeah (pause). Yeah, I guess, you know, in DC, as much as I hated going into an office every day, (inaudible at 20:51.5) being surrounded by other people all the time. It did give me a context and something to succeed at and to get, sort of, human feedback about. Whereas, freelancing like is just sort of like how fast I complete projects. And it's like over e-mails, you know, there's no sort of face-to-face interaction.
[21:19.8]
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: (Pause) And in feeling like afraid of running into people I know, just gives my life this sort of fugitive air to it (laughter), which is something I didn't feel in DC. In DC there are always so many places to go and to be out in different neighborhoods, where I have like different good memories that I can return to. And here, feeling like I sort of go back and forth between these two apartments and occasionally some like cafes or the Public Library and like feel nervous when out on the sidewalk. It's very stifling (pause). And last week, I went to the group that, did I mention that like I got locked out?
[22:29.3]
THERAPIST: (Laughter) No.
CLIENT: (Laughter) Yeah, I went to like, they have two doors and I guess I went to the door that they don't use as much or something. It wasn't like the right entrance, so I couldn't go to the group last week and I got like really irrationally upset about it (laughter). And it was sort of sad cause it's like on one level it makes sense because that's, you know, one thing that involves other people and there's like possibility of like growth and learning, so it makes sense that I would be upset by it. But it sort of feels a little sad that, like, that's one of the things tethering me to this place so that I was that sad about missing it when it's sort of an upsetting thing in the first place (laughter). Like I would feel more legitimate being sad missing someone's birthday party (laughter).
[23:23.6]
THERAPIST: I see. Happy and something you might expect to be really looking forward to and excited about.
CLIENT: Yeah (laughter).
THERAPIST: Well, what happened when you got upset? Like what were you thinking, how did it feel, what was it like?
CLIENT: Well, I mean it's a situation in which I can like learn things about myself and other people and like grow and have like very human interactions, and that's in very short supply in my life right now.
[24:10.6]
THERAPIST: Yes (laughter) (inaudible at 24:10.3).
CLIENT: (Laughter). It seems sort of sad that like the context in which I had found that was a depressing context.
THERAPIST: Right, so like, when you got whacked out and then got upset and felt like you had overreacted, I mean, what was going on? I mean, what were you thinking that you were really upset, what kind of "really upset" are you referring to?
CLIENT: Well, I sort of like sat outside the door with my book and like ring the bell a few more times (laughter). It was sort of like comically pathetic because I sat outside that door for the whole hour cause they give out handouts each week. So I was like well, I'll just wait out here and then like, you know, when the group lets out and they come out, theoretically some people would come through this door and I can get the handout and just ask what they talked about and like that will make me feel a little better. But then no one came out the door (laughter). I was thinking everyone went out the main entrance. So I was there for like an hour and a quarter without seeing another human face.
[25:28.2]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (Laughter) And I didn't get the handout. I'm like, the group leader called me like afterwards to ask where I was, and, you know, I told him - (laughter).
THERAPIST: (Laughter) Yeah, "I've been worried", yeah.
CLIENT: So I mean, it's not like they were like uncaring or something. And now they have a (inaudible at 25:44.5) inside the room where like if you're locked out, you can call that line. So it's not like this is going to happen again, it's not like they didn't care but I just felt sort of like lame and silly, being locked out of like this support group (laughter).
THERAPIST: Right, yeah, I get it. Like, the last place that is supposed to make you feel left out.
[26:14.6]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then this week's group, I got there early and got the handout and it was like a really helpful discussion, until the end when something happened that again got me really disproportionally upset. I felt like, you know, I was participating, it was weird, I was probably one of the top three people who were talking and usually I'm not one of the most talkative people in any given situation. And I was being, I was trying to be conscious because they go over the ground rules and say like "we want everyone to have a chance to talk, make sure you're not monopolizing," so I'm like make sure you don't say too much or go on for too long. So I was thinking about that during the meeting.
[27:04.3]
And there's another rule, like don't give details about anything that has happened because that could be triggering for someone. And it never occurred to me that I might do that. And like, you know, when I sort of talk about like the actual things that happened, like when I was traveling, you know, I was very vague like you're supposed to be. But then they brought up like trusting others and telling others about what happened and, you know, what our experience with that has been. And I brought up Kevin, and I really didn't think I was going to get upset just talking about him because it's not like one of the main traumas that I'm in the group for, you know. That's like theoretically a secondary thing. But I ended up saying like, you know, I didn't think that someone who knew what I went through would then go and like throw me head-first into his liquor cabinet.
[28:19.9]
And the woman had to like stop me and be like "sorry, I have to stop you, like you're giving details and we're not allowed to do that." And then I got really upset because I had like broken a rule, and I never thought of myself as someone who like would break a rule in a group and be insensitive in that way. And it really upset me (pause). And I felt like he had like foiled me again.
THERAPIST: Like, did this in effect mess things up for you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Cause I got like really upset cause it showed me in a light that I don't usually see myself in. Like usually I'm very much in control of my communication.
[29:06.5]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I lost control of my communication. And I'm like the only person who has broken a ground rule in the group, and I would never in a million years have thought I would be the first person to break a ground rule.
THERAPIST: I would not have thought, I mean, it's actually in a way, you and I have talked a fair amount about it, like how controlled you are in your communication, I think.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And how often I think you, even without realizing it, you kind of pull back from things like specifics or (inaudible at 26:36.1) information or details. Not always, certainly, but sometimes.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So that is, I think I have some sense of why that would have surprised you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it was just upsetting for like so many reasons cause it's like finding out that I'm still really upset about him when I thought I was finally over it. Finding out that I'm so upset that I can like lose control with my communication and you know, do something that gets me scolded, and I hate being scolded. And it doesn't usually happen.
[30:24.6]
I mean, it was pretty shocking, and I started like crying a little bit afterward, just tears, you know, I was quiet. But it was upsetting to me crying because of something secondary, not even like the things we're there to talk about primarily. Seems like so much of the emotional energy got invested on him, and it seems like just a waste, cause it's not even like understandable or sympathetic.
THERAPIST: Well, and it sure isn't fair -
CLIENT: Yeah (pause).
THERAPIST: - for you to still be as upset as I guess you were, and for him to have fucked things up for you again.
[31:14.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I just couldn't believe it. Like really? Like him? Again? Like so many times it seems he's like screwed things up for me (pause).
THERAPIST: You sound frustrated with him.
[32:04.5]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I guess that's something that I can intellectualize much more than I can intellectualize the other things that happened, because I have like much more limited information about those people. And I thought wrongly that I could trust them, but I didn't have as good structural reasons to think I could trust them. So, I mean, those don't give me as much sort of intellectual material. Whereas with this guy, like he just seemed structurally like the perfect person to trust and then he wasn't. And, I mean, I think because I have more information about that situation, there are ideas to work on like, my mind has sort of like worked on that situation much more (pause).
And it's still like, I think there is sort of like a feeling of like brain shock when something shatters one of your paradigms, and like I still get that sort of brain shock when I think about him sometimes. And it's like, that reaction should sort of go away, it shouldn't keep happening. Like, I know he wasn't trustworthy even though he should have been. Why is it still shocking? (pause)
[33:36.1]
THERAPIST: What thoughts do you have? What do you think?
CLIENT: Just that it's strange that it's so much easier to talk about the source of the trauma and that's so much fuzzier in my mind and that like what happened with Kevin is so visceral. And like hard for me to talk about without getting really angry and like wanting to cry. And it just makes me feel like my brain is really messed up as I've transferred all of these feelings from like two incidents onto this one person like, how did I even do that? It just seems like my brain shouldn't be able to do that. And it seems like he's like fooled me and tricked me and leads me act ridiculous again, because all of the pain is sort of manifested somewhere that's not logical or understandable. It would be much more logical if it manifested with the root problems (pause).
[34:47.6]
THERAPIST: So he's sort of like messing with your mind in all these various ways?
CLIENT: Yeah, he's sort of created a situation in which like the pain sort of drained into the situation with him, and that just makes it sort of much harder to talk about all of it. Because I think it's much easier to understand having pain about like traumatic events than having pain about someone you hoped would understand traumatic events. And it feels more legitimate to have pain about the actual events other than the aftershocks (pause).
[36:19.8]
THERAPIST: So then, like in addition to the pain from those events that gets sort of displaced into what happened with him, you have like a sense of unfairness and feel kind of messed up for your mind having done that, and being upset about things with him to the extent it feels like you really shouldn't be?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, because like (pause). I guess you sort of hope that people will be sympathetic to you and that maybe people will do something comforting at some point. But that's much more likely to happen if you're upset about actual traumatic events than if you're upset about like a relationship with some like abusive drug addict not working out. Like that's just not very sympathetic. And so it's like not only did he not give me sympathy, he made it much less likely that other people will, because sort of the feelings transferred over to this unsympathetic situation instead of a more sympathetic situation (pause).
[37:54.4]
THERAPIST: Do you have a way of understanding it?
CLIENT: Well, it really disturbs me that my mind could so effectively like transfer those feelings. Because it really seems like that's what it did. And that just seems messed up, like it seems like, you know, I tried so hard to get rid of them and I couldn't get rid of them. And if I couldn't get rid of them, why did I transfer them onto a related situation where they all like, that's like the hole in the framework for everything to sort of rush out (pause).
[39:15.6]
THERAPIST: What do you continue to feel about him?
CLIENT: Well, I guess I thought I sort of understood like that understanding why he meant so much to me, like would make me able to let go of the strong feelings toward him. But evidently that's not true, and I just, they just sort of abated. But there seem to be very strong feelings that are still there, as evidenced by my outburst on Monday (laughter). It's just frustrating that like I can't seem to, yeah, I think I've dealt with that and then I haven't and that this just seems to keep recurring (pause).
[40:15.4]
And I think it would be easier to justify to myself if it were about like the actual events, it's like there's paradigm shattering in the way that I think is much more obviously visceral and understandable. But when it's transferred onto like trying to communicate those things, instead of the actual things themselves, it's like being unable to communicate and like get understanding like, should it be this upsetting? It's harder to tolerate that (pause). And also that sort of my difficulty finding someone who doesn't want to hurt me. Not that I actually have a pronounced difficulty doing that, but the thing with Kevin sort of made me feel like I did (pause).
[41:41.3]
THERAPIST: That somehow you really couldn't look out for yourself that way?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and I mean he was just part of a pattern of trusting the wrong people and other people being out to do things against my best interests, and just made it sort of seem more prevalent than it really is when I look at the people in my life (pause). And he sort of increased my sense of isolation (pause).
[43:09.6]
And by being so structurally perfect as someone who would understand and by actually understanding, and then like hurting me, like it made it very difficult to believe that anyone else would understand, because the structurally perfect person failed. And they still might do it (inaudible at 43:26.1) even be structurally perfect (pause).
[43:59.8]
There's a sense in which that situation was intellectualized in a way that, like it makes it much colder to be upset about that because it's like my perfect scenario didn't work out, my narrative didn't work out, my solution didn't work out, which seems sort of cold and twice-removed.
THERAPIST: I see. More distant.
[44:23.4]
CLIENT: Yeah (pause).
THERAPIST: We'll stop for now. We'll talk more next week.
CLIENT: Okay, I'll see you next week.
END TRANSCRIPT
