Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Things are just up in the air for me. I mean, my insurance should be good through July.
THERAPIST: Right. End of July I would think, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, the end of July. But, I mean, where I go from there and whether I get additional insurance before then for this, depends a lot on like when I get a job, how much money I make, that kind of thing. So, I'm looking. I applied for an agent. But yeah, [it's good to be doing this.] So James was here this weekend. It was really nice to see him, and he's wonderful, but it was a really bad weekend. In some ways his being there helped, and in some ways his being there made it worse. (pause)
[01:00.9]
Both because I feel like I have to be better when he's here. I want to be less of a lump because I don't want to (inaudible). And because he's so nice to me, and he takes really good care of me, and he's really kind. And that just kind of makes this cognitive dissonance that much greater, and so I feel worse about myself to compensate for somebody else being so nice to me. So yesterday was kind of — the whole day it was one of those days where I was just like kind of falling over where I sat because I didn't have any energy. You know, we went to church because I wanted to go to church. I usually go to the evening service, but were going to see my friend Franco in the evening.
[02:04.7]
Then we were going to go up to Andover and have brunch and maybe go to an art museum. And we ended up walking around Harvard, and then brunches were over, so we went to a different place, which is way better anyway. Have you been to [inaudible]? It's a sandwich place. If you like sandwiches at all, it's the best sandwich place. And milkshakes. It's right in the Center, or behind the Center. And then, I was just like, I need to just sit down and be quiet for a while. And so we went to the library, and then a coffee shop, and I just like sat and read for several hours. And I could get myself back together again enough to like go and be with Franco and spend time with him. But it was like the whole day was just (pause) kind of like dragging me through,
trying to like pull my mood up enough to do something, or do the next thing. (pause)
[03:16.2]
Yeah. He asked if I needed him to come live here. So then I said "No, I don't think that's a good idea." You know, he said, "If that's what we need to do, I'm happy to do it, and I really want to do it. But it'll be, you know, that's what you need, that's what I want to do." But I don't think it is. Partly because if he comes and lives here, then at some point in future time he'll have to go away again for another year and finish his degree. And, like, I can't — I have a lot riding on the idea that when James comes here to live, he's going to come here to live for good. You know, that's going to be the end of separation.
[04:18.1]
THERAPIST: That you have to make it till then.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I just don't like seeing — I don't like him seeing me when I'm like this. (pause) Yeah, it's easier when I'm the only person whose life is so drastically out of orbit.
THERAPIST: You mean as opposed to feeling like you're pulling somebody else out of their [orbit]?
[05:07.8]
CLIENT: (Pause) Yeah. Yesterday and last night it was like I was in the mood or the place where usually I end up injuring myself and that helps, and then I can kind of move past it. But like James was there, so I couldn't do it. But because I was in such bad spot, he couldn't do anything else, like other than be with me and take care of me and hold me. And that was what I needed. But, like, I'm there a lot. Taking care of me would be a full-time job. (pause) I don't know, I just don't feel good about it.
[06:21.1]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. (pause) Yeah, I mean, whatever it is that's causing you to feel so bad, clearly your sort of guilt about feeling like a burden is really pretty central. I mean, I guess —(pause) Two of the things that seem to be so far (inaudible at 07:37.5) so important are the extent to which you feel like you're doing something constructive or contributing, which has been basically doing academic work in the recent phase, and how guilty you're feeling about burdening other people.
[08:01.1]
Like, those are the things that, more than anything else, can really weigh on you. I imagine as much as you want his help, that you are a little afraid of it because you know you can feel so bad when you — I imagine for you it can feel like running up a bill.
[09:01.3]
CLIENT: It does and it doesn't. I trust James's love and care for me in a way that is completely uncharacteristic of me. I have no idea how it got there. And so, in that regard, it doesn't feel like that. Or it feels like I'm running up a bill, but that bill isn't going to come from James. It's more like, you know, the universe is going to be (chuckles) —
THERAPIST: Sort of like a bill to be paid on Judgment Day or something like that.
[09:59.3]
CLIENT: Something like that. Although that's not at all, at all, how I think of religion. At all.
THERAPIST: Yeah. No, I didn't mean —
CLIENT: No, I know. But I obviously talk about going to church a lot — (voices overlapping at 10:13.2). Yeah.
THERAPIST: — in a sense where you are being judged in some way.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I mean, one of the things that's tricky for me is like my religious beliefs and these kind of superstitious feelings are entirely at variance. And that's like something in my spiritual life where I'm like ["What the fuck" and I'm trying to figure it out]. (pause) But yeah. (pause) It just feels like I'm getting away with something that I shouldn't be or that I won't be able to.
[11:02.7]
(Pause) It hurts to see it be so hard on him. (pause until 12:45.4) I set this so I could take my medicine on time and I'm either someplace where I can't take my medicine [or in a few minutes I'll think] "In a half an hour and I'll go do that" and forget . Or like today, I forgot to bring it with me. It's a little bit of Adderall, so it doesn't make any difference. I don't feel any difference whether I take it or not.
THERAPIST: I imagine it makes you feel less together (inaudible at 13:32.1) maybe there's that, but more the lack of coordination or whatever.
[13:40.6]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just like this persistent aspect of my own care that I can't seem to get a handle on, just taking medicine during the middle of the day. It's entirely consistent with my inability to —or lack of coordination, period. You know, some people can carry an umbrella when it's raining and have their bag and a cup of coffee in one hand, and then pull out their wallet and swipe the card and just go? I like drop everything always. I'm always the person who drops everything. I can never get it right. The city makes it harder by being itself, because the weather — I always have either mittens to take off or an umbrella I have to juggle.
[14:48.5]
But that's just me, a constant in my life. But it's much better than it used to be. (pause) It doesn't make — so sometimes, most of the time, James is really good at taking care of me and really gets it right. Sometimes he just doesn't do it well. He's one of those people that when he doesn't eat regularly, he's really irritable. Like 80 percent of our fights happen before dinner.
[15:54.7]
So he'll snap at me or he'll get frustrated, and it doesn't matter in some sense whether he's like taking care of me in a good way or is not. I know he feels like those times when he snaps at me, or is less than a vision of perfection, are so much more important now and are so much more (inaudible at 16:34.6). And I think he has a lot of guilt, puts a lot of guilt on himself. I don't know what to do about that, you know.
[16:48.2]
THERAPIST: I think something may have just happened there. I'm not sure, but let me bring it up. I think you started intending to say something like, a little more mixed about James or how he's not perfect, kind of. And then I think you went into feeling bad for him because of how when he feels he's not been perfect, it really bothers him.
CLIENT: That probably happened. I do find it really hard to criticize him. Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, there's partly that, but partly that you started out seeming to want to a little bit. Criticize is stronger than it seemed to me. It's more like, humanize might be closer. I think you were —
[17:48.3]
CLIENT: No, I ended up where I wanted to go. I just got distracted by wanting to talk about the — I feel like I present a picture of James that makes it seem like I must be completely divorced from reality because nobody is this perfect. So I want to be clear that no, James is not perfect and sometimes we have large problems, and so forth.
THERAPIST: I wonder if you started in that direction and then felt a little bad. It's not as though —
CLIENT: No, I don't feel bad criticizing James.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I was just going back to — although, I didn't feel bad this time, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Sure.
[18:48.8]
CLIENT: That happens.
THERAPIST: But it wasn't so much what happened here.
CLIENT: Yeah. This is more a problem of, I tend to start trying to make one point and then I get to five different places.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Then I'm like, "But I had something I wanted to say," and then I have to [wrench] it back to where I wanted it to go. Which is — (pause) When he's wonderful and perfect, I feel bad about myself. When he's a jackass to me, I feel bad about myself. This is not — I don't like this. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[19:42.8]
CLIENT: I feel like it's getting harder for me to be around him. And not like I want to be around him less. I mean, when he's here, I'm much more physically clingy than I usually am. (pause) I don't know. But it's harder. I'm just under more stress when I'm around him than when I'm not. (pause)
[20:49.7]
THERAPIST: Well, I guess it sounds like it sort of stirs up this conflict for you between wanting, and at times, feeling like you need to depend on him. And I think probably the guilt that results from that, and maybe partly just sort of some shame by not being independent.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I feel like the fact that I'm sick is making him worse, is making his life really hard. And he can take care of me, and does take care of me, and has to take care of me, and I can't take care of him. I try to, but — (pause)
[22:28.1]
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. What's the problem with that?
CLIENT: (Laughter)
THERAPIST: I can imagine there are different ones. I don't know which ones you had in mind.
CLIENT: Well, that I love him very much and I don't like that I am making him sad. (pause) Then I feel like it's harder for me to do what I need to do to get well, because I need to consider the effect that it's going to have on him. (pause) That I really do kind of have a vision of interdependence in a relationship rather than dependence, you know? You rely on one another. (pause) And I can't be that right now. (pause)
[24:06.3]
You know, when things just get so bad I just — and you know depression is a really selfish thing. I just can't even think about him sometimes. He's there and I need him to be there, but I'm just consumed with myself that I can't even take him into account at all. You know, sometimes I want — like last night, I really wanted him to be with me but I also wanted him to go away so that I could be as sad as I was.
THERAPIST: Which is harder to be with him there?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: For fear of bringing him down, or because you wanted to be able to cut yourself?
[25:04.8]
CLIENT: Both. (pause) Yeah, I mean, I get over it with James more than with anybody else. But I can't stop wanting to put the "I'm okay" face on. At one point, like you could see in my face that I looked like I was about to just flood into tears, and he gave me a hug and I said "I'm okay" and we both started laughing because clearly I am not okay. What I meant was, "I am not going to break down in front of you at this moment."
[26:01.2]
THERAPIST: Why not?
CLIENT: I mean, part of it is, I can't. It's like a trained physical reaction. (pause) Part of it is that it's just harder for me to cry in front of other people than when I'm by myself.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess what you've been talking about is the mixed feelings you have about the way you're having to put yourself in his hands. And it sounds as though one of the more intense ways of doing that would be to break down in front of him.
[27:11.3]
CLIENT: And I do a lot, don't get me wrong. A lot. (pause) Part of it is like the way that my moods are affecting me are changing over time, such that it's harder for me to actually cry when I'm by myself even. I feel worse, if anything. (pause) Yeah, I mean, I feel like if I let myself break down, I don't know what will happen. (pause) (inaudible).
[28:19.3]
But I feel like he feels like he has to do something. And then I feel like I have to acknowledge that he's trying to do something. And then it's like it's not — he's trying to comfort me, but then it turns into I'm trying to comfort him by letting him see that he has comforted me. I don't know how to get out of that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm actually not convinced in a way that you're working any less hard in taking care of him than he is working at taking care of you. I understand —
CLIENT: I know I'm working really hard at it. I'm just not successful at it. (laughter) I'm always working on taking care of him, whatever that looks like. I'm just not very successful. (pause)
[29:11.5]
I guess both of us are trying really hard to help the other and looking at each other, and it's just getting worse and there's nothing we can do. (pause) It's like, I've been thinking about comforting the people who are trying to comfort me. I was in a session with a woman. This was the day I decided I was going to take a year off as an indirect result of this session. At the end of it she said "I just want you to know that I know you came in looking for something and you didn't find it, and I just want to acknowledge that."
[30:14.8]
And she was doing that in a really good way of not apologizing, but also apologizing. Apologizing without saying that she felt she could have done anything different than what she did. It was totally appropriate, very good. And I was just like "Yep, that's what happened." And I was very proud of myself for that (laughter) because my instincts say "That's okay," but at the moment, it wasn't okay. It wasn't good enough. (pause) (chuckles) But then, of course, afterward I felt bad about that.
[31:12.8]
THERAPIST: I think probably in some fundamental way, nobody's help has really been good enough. I don't mean that people haven't been, as she was, good at what they do or good in the ways they were trying to help you, most especially James.
CLIENT: It's not possible. You weren't going there. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Correct. I think that may be true in principle, but I'm more concerned with the way that among other things, which we've been talking about, it's usually something of a disappointment or [evokes] some frustration or something like that, from you. Which you probably pretty quickly —
[32:16.9]
CLIENT: Sorry, what is "it"?
THERAPIST: Someone's effort to be there for you.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I want to be very clear that I'm clear that if you're doing the Zagat rating of it, it could be five stars, but there's some way in which it really doesn't feel like enough. And probably — it's not quite the word I want — in some more primitive sense, really feels like it could be more or should be more, even if you know in your head that might not be possible.
CLIENT: That's about right.
[33:09.9]
THERAPIST: Which I guess is another way of saying that in [some part of you], you are probably pretty disappointed with everybody. Again, as much as from another vantage point, you are as appreciative and as thankful as you could possibly be.
CLIENT: I mean, I'm disappointed. I'm disappointed with what happens and with what has happened, but I don't think it's true that I'm disappointed with the person. Because everybody is doing the best that they can. (pause) I'm just disappointed with the world, I guess. But yeah, it's not good enough. (pause)
[34:22.1]
(Crying) You know, if I had any better ideas, then maybe I would feel disappointed in the people who have not given me help. But it's — (pause) Yeah. And because the gratitude is so great, always, that I can't even look at the disappointment. (pause) It's frustrating.
[35:31.2]
THERAPIST: If we pretended you were going to look at the disappointment —
CLIENT: (Chuckles) We can do that.
THERAPIST: Okay. What would you find?
CLIENT: I mean, well, this is what it is. It's not that I'm disappointed in other people. I'm disappointed in myself for not being helped by what helps everybody else. Well, not everybody else, but most people. And what doesn't help me — you know, what people are giving me is what they know how to give, and what they would need in this situation, or what other patients have needed, or what is the best answer that they have based on what has worked in the past. And so the common factor is that I'm the one who is not being helped. So it's not like I'm disappointed in people when they fail to help me. It's that I think I'm the person at fault here, for not being helped. (pause) Because that's what the pattern is. (chuckles)
[36:53.1]
THERAPIST: If somebody has to be at fault, anyway.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: If somebody has to be at fault, anyway.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I'm always ready to consider myself at fault.
THERAPIST: [That's sort of a problem].
CLIENT: Yeah. You noticed that. (laughter) (pause) But I guess when there are specific ways when I feel like I could have seen a way in which somebody could have done something but they didn't, then I get very angry at them. I can say "Okay, this was not enough" and I can say that.
THERAPIST: And was there a bit of that at the center?
[37:43.7]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Okay, so you don't know who to talk to? You know what? All of that information, it turns out, is online. She could have just said "You know, I don't know. Why don't we turn to my computer and look it up right now?" Instead of "I don't know. The only person I can tell you to talk to is your advisor or the head of Graduate Studies, who are the two people who terrify you the most, as we have just discussed." Come on, lady. (laughter) Which is weird, because she's pretty good. We've been working really well together. It's just in that instance, she dropped the ball. And then I hold grudges sometimes, which I don't feel good about. If I can resolve an issue, I stop being angry as soon as I say "I'm angry at you" and then it's gone. But if I can't find a way to resolve it, I hold grudges.
[38:48.4]
THERAPIST: If there hadn't been a way to get the information to move forward on the lead?
CLIENT: No, it's more like I hadn't told her that I didn't feel like she handled that very well, so I can't let go of it. But other than that — (pause) But yeah, I mean, for every time that I can get upset with somebody else, it has got to be very clear-cut and pretty much like anybody should have known this, or you should have known this. But mostly I'm just kind of bewildered by —
[39:41.5]
THERAPIST: Well, one reason I guess I find that interesting is that it's almost like they have to meet that objective criteria because, I guess, it just sometimes doesn't work that way. If you're upset with somebody or disappointed with them, you are and you may feel it's fair or not fair, or have to sort out whether you think it's fair, or why you're even upset or disappointed with them in the first place. But I guess the way you put it seems to me, in a sense, putting the cart before the horse, like I can only be upset with them if I've decided that —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which I'm not interested in saying that's a mistake, but more like it seems to suggest, to me anyway, this is something you're sort of guarded about.
[40:50.3]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's kind of the tail end of a lot of therapy from my early teenage years. (laughter) It was in my teenage years when I felt I wasn't allowed to be angry at anybody ever. And so for me to experience being angry, I have to name it and recognize it to figure out why I'm angry. And then for me to feel like it's okay to express anger, it has to be clear. Or with people that I'm close to, then that naming it and recognizing it and figuring out why it's there is a part of the conversation. So like James and I can have a conversation like that, like "Look, I'm really angry at you, but it's not for a very good reason, so let's talk about this."
[41:54.7]
THERAPIST: So you're close enough and I would imagine secure enough in that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. If I feel like my showing anger isn't going to drive him away. Yeah, it was not okay for me to be angry when I was little. So, that's like one of my small psychological victories. I can get pissed off at people. (laughter)
THERAPIST: [It doesn't sound so small to me].
CLIENT: (Laughter) It took a while. But yeah, I recognize that is a little weird, the way that I deal with it still. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. But we'll talk more on Wednesday.
END TRANSCRIPT
