TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


0735-103


(Inaudible background conversation)


COUNSELOR: Yeah


PATIENT: Yeah as I said yesterday I feel like I need a session. And my reason is that I got a lot of things I want to talk about yesterday that kind of built up in the last few days. And, so, I understand that I am going to be out of town so I thought I better try and get in a session or two if possible.


COUNSELOR: Yeah right.


PATIENT: See if I couldn't get some of these things straightened out. I kind of come to the conclusion that therapy as been sort of a delaying tactic.


COUNSELOR: A delaying tactic?


PATIENT: You know I'm already out looking for another female to talk to see. I've got it in my mind. In fact in the last few days it has been ... I've been ... I've had in my mind firmly that I was going to find another female to go to bed with. Least (ph) she married, single, divorced, anything.


COUNSELOR: But that was what you wanted?


PATIENT: Well that was just what I had in my mind so I don't know.


COUNSELOR: You feel like therapy is almost a female to talk to until you get a regular female to talk to?


PATIENT: Yeah like I said I think it has been just a sort of delaying tactic and when it's all over I will go right back to my old habits. [2:01] Maybe it won't affect me the same way though. 


I asked my wife there, well in fact yesterday, it was last night. I got to talking to her a little bit because over the last two or three days I've been getting this kind of indifferent attitude from her. And I ask her point blank, I said well is it another boyfriend or what? I said I have been getting this indifferent attitude. And I said it seemed like every time I told her I loved her she just kind of looked at me with a blank stare on her face you know.


So what else is new? And well I kind of grilled her there last night and so forth. Anyway I ask her if there was another boyfriend. She's got two jobs right now. She works from eleven to four at Wendy's and she works from six to nine at (ph) (sp?) the nursing home so and I have been out of town a lot so I haven't seen any paychecks. She just started working about a week or so ago at these places you know. I haven't seen any paychecks and so I had no way of ... and I hadn't bothered to call her because I think that's part of the reason she's been getting fired because I call her all of the time at places where she works and so forth. 


I decided I just won't call her and get her fired again. So I didn't have any way of verifying the fact that she was even working see. I just kind of trusted her and then all of a sudden it seemed to me that maybe she wasn't working. At least one of the jobs maybe she wasn't. I don't know why.


COUNSELOR: Maybe one of the jobs was fiction?


PATIENT: Yeah she was going out every night and seeing some guy or she was going out and seeing some guy during the day, you know, is the story I'm working (ph). So I put it to her point blank and got the negative answer and it didn't satisfy me at all. I'm still curious. [3:59]


Like the last few days I've kind of gone back to a jittery ... in fact I asked her, you know this bit about getting a divorce. Are we or aren't we? She says well she hadn't even thought of it until I mentioned it. And I said well it's been passing through my mind ever once in a while. There's only about two more weeks of sessions and then what as far as the marriage is concerned. 


Her side of the ... her answer to that question was that she didn't think that we'd ever get divorced. We would just kind of go on in our own little way. She didn't really want to and she didn't think that I wanted to either and so consequently we would just kind of keep trudging along. [4:55]


[Pause]


PATIENT: Like I said I am going back to my old habits it seems like. The few friends that we've swung with you know are sorry to hear checking to see if they are interested in getting together or are eliminating them because they seem to show no interest anymore. And after that's all processed out then I'm going back to the divorcees I know I guess and kind of check out all of the possibilities it seems like. 


COUNSELOR: So one of the things you mean by going back to your old habits is being more interested in other women and more interested in the past. (ph)[5:59]


PATIENT: Seems like my wife and I just sort of have a static repetition way of approaching, accomplishing it and forgetting it all in one easy operation. And this idea of swinging is ... at least analyzing ... or with anybody else as far as that goes, it least have some kind of vagueness that might be interesting, newness that might be interesting or something. 


COUNSELOR: You're agreeing (ph) with your wife and you'd like it to be new and fresh and exciting.


[Pause]


PATIENT: Some of the things she does kind of bugs me. We went to Missouri about two weeks ago. I took her and the kids with me. And when we came back for some reason or another I got my wedding ring [inaudible]. I was pretty sure I got home with it although I did have thoughts of leaving it at the hotel or at work where I laid it down to wash my hands or something. But anyway I was pretty sure I got home with it. 


And then the next morning I got ready to go to work and I forgot it. It wasn't but two blocks down the street I came back, came in and checked where I usually put it and it wasn't there. I looked around a little bit and then got back in the car and went to work. I told her to look for it. 


Well she found it. And she put it about six inches away from where I usually put it see on the other side of this little partition where I wouldn't see it too easy. In fact she put it behind the clock you might say. So I asked her to call ... called her later in the day ... and asked her if she found it and she says "No". She had but she didn't tell me. And so I got home that night why I kind of glanced around the house and I oh course found it. I don't know what her idea was and so it was an episode that kind of irked me. [8:10] 


I don't know rather she was trying to see if I placed any value on it or what but anyway.


COUNSELOR: Felt like she was playing some kind of game with you?


PATIENT: Playing cat and mouse with me or something. It was absolutely unnecessary in my book. 


[Pause]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like lately you've been getting indifferent and unpleasant things from her and not knowing really what's on her mind.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Like the gist of the vibes you get aren't good? 


PATIENT: [inaudible] good vibrations. Oh course when I stop and try to start theorizing, I always dig up the past and take parts of it and install it in the future or in the present as I see it which may not be true at all. So like I said I couldn't hardly wait until I got home yesterday so I could quiz her on all this. And she says no but I still don't believe her. 


Oh course she brought home a paycheck there last night and that's at least some proof I guess that she's working at one of the jobs. 


I ask her something about the ... I think we ought to try this therapy for the both ... for both of us to attend and she kind of laughed it off. She said something about ... I don't remember what she said but it amounted to the fact she didn't think she needed therapy. [10:00] I said well it's not really rather you need it or not. It might do you some good rather you think you need it or not. And she didn't pursue the subject any further so I let it drop. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Part of the problem also is yesterday I had a job where I ... one of these jobs where I can kind of do it routinely and not have to worry about thinking about it. And when I do that I have time to stand around or sit around or whatever I've doing to think about other things see and this goes hand in hand with the what's really going on idea that I went home with yesterday afternoon. 


I got down there to Missouri last week. I was going to spend a couple of ... three days down there at the most and get on home. Make sure nothing was going on behind my back. So the first night I was down there oh course I called her so I said that or she called me. Anyway her parents had arrived from Arizona with our oldest daughter in toe. I think they got it up to here with her and decided to bring her home. But the after that I thought well I can spend as long as I want down here now because with her parents there I felt relatively safe. Nothing really is going on really or her dad is sharp enough he could pick it up. And so he didn't worry anymore that week about it. In fact I didn't even call her I don't think any more that week. I didn't get home until Friday night. But like I said I felt relatively secure. [12:00]


COUNSELOR: Yeah you used your mind to know that her parents were ... would prevent her from going out and meeting a guy and


PATIENT: She wouldn't do it while they were there because at least like I said her dad would be smart enough to catch on maybe to what's going on. 


[Cough] 


[Pause]


PATIENT: One of her episodes that we see every week or so ... I have this feeling of ... I don't say anything to him I just look at him and say to myself I know that what you have done and you don't know that I know. [Laughter] 


So today like I said I have gone back to my old ways habits. I called a friend's wife. So I see this guy and into my mind comes this I know something that you don't know idea when I don't really know what she ... he might have talked to her and she might have told him the whole thing. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. But you kind of felt one up on him?


PATIENT: Yeah. One up on him I guess you might say. I don't know. I just know I don't want to be as sneaky as the rest of the world. 


No, I called her to apologize. She was ... her and him came out one time. He and I had been talking about swinging for a long time and not really too seriously. We just kind of mentioned it a couple of times. And then one night at this party why he was there and his wife was back west. Her father was real sick and so I don't know. [14:01] My wife had a few drinks and he had quite a few. And when they were dancing they got to talking about swinging. So now they were both in favor of it just like that. So he talks his wife into it. And I think I told you before, they came out and we went to a party and then came home later. And he had some stag films and this was an act of the car won't start and they just ... with the time we got around to sitting and watching sex films and everything the night was just ... hadn't really gotten through to me you know. Things hadn't gone right all night anyhow. And ...


COUNSELOR: You weren't in the mood.


PATIENT: Well I'm always in the mood but this ... he had previously said "Now, go slow, go slow." And told me you know how to make sure and approach her. Just go real slow and everything. And oh course by that time like I said I was all jangled and I didn't proceed with cautious or anything and I kind of upset her. And so oh course the next few days after that then I talked to him. Why I got the message real quick that they didn't even want try it again see. Because she didn't want to in the first place and it was rather frightening experience I guess when you get right down to it. 


So I called her today. I told her I wanted to apologize for this incident. (ph) I had been thinking about how things went. And this, is the reason I said I put the disguise on and said I know something that you don't know. But I'm going back to my old habits of calling people. Pestering them or whatever you want to call it. 


COUNSELOR: Feel like you're inviting yourself again where you might not be welcome?


PATIENT: Oh yeah. I feel like that a lot of the time. Like my wife says whenever we get with a couple I always ... well maybe I guess a lot of people call it ... I just make passes to the other guy's wife all of the time. [16:14] And this, is not to her liking or maybe to his either. But it kind of creates disharmony (ph), runs off friends or whatever you want to call it. That's just the way I act and people don't understand that maybe a lot of it's just a front I guess you'd say. 


But like I say I am always attracted to the opposite sex. And as far as going out and drinking or playing tennis or anything with some of the guys I could care less. But if I can go out and drink with a female I mean that's a ... how do we say that in French [charlez de vez] (ph) or something. That's my height of ambition I guess you'd say.


COUNSELOR: You know the way you've been putting it like going back to your old habits. It sounds like it feels to you like you've been backsliding or slipping into something you don't want.


PATIENT: Well, I think the only reason I don't want it is because I feel like it's a ... well for one thing my wife criticizes me for it, maybe I lose friends for it and in the long run I don't gain anything it seems like ... except some strange relationships. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's sort of like you want to have things with women but you don't want the effects that seem to come out of it. [Inaudible]


PATIENT: Everybody seems like, well guys; guys kind of envy the lady's man you know. The guy that can really have a way with women and this, is something one of the things that pries upon me. I kind of like to be a lady's man but I don't know how to go about it. So in my own awkward way I try and fail. [18:15] 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Right now I got this business thing out on the island next week. And I don't really want to go because of the fact that I am going to leave my wife here vulnerable tonight. And the knowledge you know and I will be out there and it will be on my mind. And I'll be trying to get my work done fast enough to get on back here as soon as possible so that I make sure nothing happens while I am gone. 


And this, isn't the ... it isn't a good way to operate in my books. I would be able to play when I looked. I'm going to leave here by yourself. I'm going to put you on your trust and don't betray me or something like that. But I just can't seem to operate that way.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Can't just go away and trust her. 


PATIENT: I don't feel I can. Like I said I'm still not sure whether she's even working when she says she's working or going to the store when she says she's going to the store because of the past. And she can't understand why I can't accept the fact that she says that she won't and let it go at that. 


Maybe it's because I feel as though she's as vulnerable as I am. 


COUNSELOR: Oh you mean as vulnerable to men as you are to women? [19:58]


PATIENT: Right. Some girls just smile at me the right way. And I was on a business trip I wouldn't hesitate a minute to take her to my motel room. 


COUNSELOR: You can't help thinking that your wife is the same way.


PATIENT: Right. She's just has vulnerable as I am when it gets right down to it. [Inaudible]


[Pause]


PATIENT: The funny thing is that I think that she's really encouraged me to be this way. This ... well there had been times like when I go to Missouri and said something about like to have somebody go along with me just half way kidding you might say. And if she was working or something then she'd say "Why don't you check with so and so? She might go with you." And a friend of ours that's down the street that fixes my wife's hair is kind of a wild card. [Inaudible] about whether she has a boyfriend or whether her husband has a girlfriend. They won't tell each other. Well she has at one time or another gone to Manhattan with this guy see and she can only do this on Monday and Tuesday because that's her days off. She doesn't fix hair on those days. And so sometimes when I go down there on Sunday night and I'm going to come back on a Monday night or something like this you know I've had my wife well why don't you see if she wants to go with you. I haven't got the guts to ask her. Because I know damn good and well she would probably say no but.


COUNSELOR: And you don't want to be turned down? [22:02]


PATIENT: No, I don't like to be turned down. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: To tell the truth I'm even the guy who will lie to the babysitters [because I] (ph) make sure. One time we had this babysitter ... a cute girl ... so she only babysat for us one time. And I said something to my wife where's Jessica? (ph) Why don't you get that cute babysitter again? She said well she tried a couple of times but she was always busy. I didn't even do anything or say anything and I forget what scared the girl away but she better be thankful she didn't accept any. After a while you might get to be looking a little too tempting to resist. 


I have a funny way that I get to know people. When I first met them I might have a great deal of sexual interest in them. But after awhile it kind of dies away. And I don't know this, is kind of an odd way to be it seems like to me. Most people are the other way around. They really don't pay much interest and much attention to people at first. And then when they get to know them they get more interested or something. I'm the other way around. The more I'm with people the less interested in them. 


COUNSELOR: Why is that?


PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe you know what to expect and instead of asking questions you just assume the answers you're going to get and go on. 


COUNSELOR: No surprises. 


PATIENT: No surprises. 


COUNSELOR: No wondering and intriguing. 


PATIENT: Something like that I guess. [24:01]


[Pause]


PATIENT: With the job situation seems to have improved so maybe I'm looking around for problems. And the boss and I get along ... getting along tremendously good right now. He's giving me all kinds of projects and to me this traveling bit is a ... not necessarily a reward but it's a sign he has faith enough in you to send you out to do a job in the lab. And if you show enough progress along the lines that he expects why I think it's a [feather in your cap] (ph) towards your next raise or something. 


COUNSELOR: So he's really appreciated in you and I know that makes you feel a whole lot better about the whole thing.


PATIENT: Yeah so I kind of feel like the whole job is kind of stable right now even if the pay hasn't improved. But now is the time to really start getting in your points because the raises go in about the first of August. And whenever everything's looking good from that stand point too. 


But I still got this I do the work, hand him the results and say you make the decisions. I didn't. So trying to take a whole project in hand, I just kind of do my part and say ok I've done my part now you do yours. I hand it to him with the expectations that he'll take it from there. Like this project in Missouri I've got some isotopes that we've been trying to produce a research line on for a long time. And we've been changing a little bit here and a little bit there. And finally the other day I ran the project with a seeming amount of success, turned it over to him to either decide whether the lab should go into production on this heavy research material or wait awhile. [26:06]And then I feel like I've done my part. Now it's up to him to say either they can do it or they can't. And I guess this, is the way [I really argue ... makes people understand] (ph). However this, is another reason why he's putting more faith in me.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you changed in that a little. Like you won't have taken that position awhile ago but now you're pretty satisfied with it. 


PATIENT: A year or so ago I wanted to have complete control of the project you know. Go in and do the results and then if they're good turn around to the lab and say do it. It's some sort of a reversal or toning down or whatever you want to call it the way I looked at the job I could be doing. And I haven't even called these informant places in the last few days because I'm just not that interested in going out and trying to persuade some guy into thinking that I'm his [inaudible] the job and not even know what I'm getting into. And have to be trying to prove myself all over again. I don't want that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah it's almost like now you can't be sure that any change will be a change for the better. 


PATIENT: Right. And the market is kind of tight. There are a few jobs out there but you got to be the guy with all the qualifications and the irresistible personality and all this to get it. So I'm just not even interested in getting out there and trying. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah competing in that league. 


PATIENT: Why create new problems. You can think of enough without going out looking for them. 


COUNSELOR: So everything's pretty good in regard to your job. [28:10] 


PATIENT: Right at the moment yeah.


COUNSELOR: Home and your marriage and your wife.


PATIENT: Yeah I'm back to that looking for problems there I guess. 


COUNSELOR: Looking for them or you feel in a way like you're making them up or something?


PATIENT: Seems that way. Like I say I hit my wife {inaudible] with this got another boyfriend idea when maybe it's like she said the furthest thing from her mind right at the moment. Not that she's ... that she wouldn't like to I don't think but she's promised me she wouldn't so I think she's holding true maybe to her word. 


COUNSELOR: Making problems in that sense like maybe it doesn't really necessarily have to be suspicious?


PATIENT: But none the less like I said I wish there was some way I could be sure that doesn't happen while I'm gone next week. 


COUNSELOR: Wish you could really know.


PATIENT: Sometimes she's kind of encouraging to me and other times she kind of leaves me out in left field. Like all Sunday, she had to work Sunday night from six to nine. When she got home she wanted to go a movie and leave the kids there with the grandparents and just the two of us. This to me was kind of encouraging that she wanted to be alone with me or do something. And yet oh course see Monday night is the only night that she really gets off and I would have been out of town so I don't know. Like I said she's kind of encouraging but then the vibrations ... shall we go back to that word ... that I had been getting in the last week or so just weren't what I wanted. [30:01] 


Oh course she goes back and blames it on the fact that she's tired and that she's working hard and all this. 


COUNSELOR: She claims that doesn't have anything to do with you?


PATIENT: Yeah. And I just can't seem to buy the whole story. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah feel like that there must be a little more to it then just that she's tired and works a lot.


[Pause]


PATIENT: I sometimes wondered if either ... say for instance that we didn't have any children ... if we'd still stay married because of the fact that neither one of us want to get out and compete in the winnings a new lover market. 


COUNSELOR: Wondering if you're staying together just because it's safer.


PATIENT: Less work. Just a little bit of security at least. Something along that ordeal (ph). 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Friends of ours that live down the street that we went out with one time and tried to get them to swing with us and they said no. Well this guy worked with a guy that was ... him and his wife had been talking about swinging ... so he kind of referred them to us but not to us but to my wife. Referred this guy to her to talk to her. This, is about three weeks ago and she hadn't mentioned a word about it to me. She kept talking to this other couple that we swung with on the phone last night or the night before last. And I overheard the conversation. I knew she was talking about some guy you know. And so I asked her about it later and she told me about this guy and how he had come to the place where she was working. Talking to her about it. And he kind of ... well she said that she knew a couple that maybe might be interested in it. I asked her why she didn't try to set up something with us and them. She passed it off as the idea that she's working too much and that we wouldn't have time to get together. I took it as another way as a fact that she's afraid that it would be another of this same episode where the wife wouldn't be interested in me. And I was kind of hurt by that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like she was downgrading you.


PATIENT: Yeah to me it was sort of a downgrading and lack of faith in me or something. So this, is another thing that hit me. 


COUNSELOR: Hurt you but she didn't think to have more faith in you than that.


PATIENT: That's the way I took it. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: We got four more sessions? [34:31] 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And we'll probably work them two next week and two the week after then. Is that going to even out or?


COUNSELOR: I'm going away. I'll be out of town for awhile. 


PATIENT: This, is what? 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Then that would be the second week there. 


COUNSELOR: That would mean we'd either have to get in an extra session one time.


PATIENT: Or two. 


COUNSELOR: Or yeah.


PATIENT: Yeah. Well whatever way you want to work it. Like I say I'm going out to the island (ph) I don't know when.


COUNSELOR: That's right you are going out of town too.


PATIENT: Yeah for the first two or three days of next week. 


COUNSELOR: I don't see how we're going to get in four sessions if I'm going to be out of town and you're going to be out of town. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Looks like it will have to wait until that week [inaudible] when you get back here.


COUNSELOR: Does that sound ok by you?


PATIENT: Yeah that's alright. Any amazing conclusions that you've come to?


COUNSELOR: Well you know I don't listen by way of forming conclusions.


PATIENT: I think I'm still looking for this now here's the problem and here's the solutions session. [36:05] 


COUNSELOR: Yeah kind of a warning of like a plan laid out for you or something.


PATIENT: Well at least saying let's put a finger on this and call it a [thousand years] (ph) of a possible solution. I realize like the next person no matter how hard you plan something you can't count on everything going according to plan. That's why I was saying if I go into the lab on say Monday morning bright and early and try my darnedest to get all the work done in say two days I know good and well that there's a chance I'll be there Thursday. So you really can't count on things going according to plans. 


COUNSELOR: But if maybe like wanting it to be clearer like to be able to put your finger on just what is the problem and then something could be done about it. 


PATIENT: Yeah I think I've made some assumptions. Like I say I was talking to my wife there last night and she said ... or I ask her something about well did she think there was any progress. And she said yeah that I seemed to be able to ... let me think how she put it now ... be able to not get so confused or something. I don't know. She said she that she felt that there was some kind of progress in me being able to control myself or not getting so tense over little things that happen or something. I don't know. But anyway she seemed to think that there was a perceivable change at least. [38:15]


COUNSELOR: Does that please you?


PATIENT: Yeah. I think again like I said she hurt me in this other way that would kind of counteract that so I've kind of eliminated.


COUNSELOR: About the [inaudible]


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: All in all you been feeling in a way you [inaudible]


PATIENT: You gained something here or you lose something there. It's kind of a [Mexican] (ph) stand-off. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah it's not like getting anywhere.


PATIENT: You got to have more gains than loses to come out ahead. 


COUNSELOR: And you don't feel like you've come out ahead with her.


PATIENT: Not on that particular point there. Like I said this idea of not having her stare me in the face with a divorce decree or a divorce proceeding or whatever seems to do a sort of a game there. So maybe that's one in my favor. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Yeah I just kind of have bits and pieces running through my mind. It's not really anything to talk about. [40:31] 


[Pause]


COUNSELOR: I just had the feeling that you had some stuff that had been activating you or bothering you and yet not quite knowing how to talk about it or how to approach it or ...


PATIENT: Well like I said I have bits and pieces of this, that and the other running through my mind. One second I'll be talking or thinking about ... her like I said you never can tell when you're going to get a good looking babysitter and then the next minute I'm just thinking ... turn around and thinking about work. And the two aren't even anywhere near related and not really anything to bring up that would be useful. Just kind of thinking of this little thing for one second and then skipping to another one. [42:05]


It seems like a lot of times that things that I want to talk about seem important at the moment and two hours later they're not important. Maybe it's the fact that I've had time to stop and think about it and relegate it to a less important decision in my thinking or something but ... like I said yesterday I was thinking there was at least three or four things there that I needed to talk about. Me and my wife, me and my job and things like this. And how I've done some things in the last 24 to 48 hours that I thought were pullovers from the things that I was trying to get rid of when I came here. And got me into making about three statements on each of them and that's about the extent of it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Right now none of them seems all that pressing.


PATIENT: No. Things like I got to teacher such and such a class at church next week you know and I got to go keep up the literature and got to get this 4H pack together kind of half way organized to get started for the year. Things like this kind of pass through my mind. I think one thing I've kind of learned is how to really get a priority number to certain ideas. And if I give it a low priority number it gets put off for several days. But if I think it's very important I may do it within the next 24 hours.


COUNSELOR: Something you've learned [inaudible] in the way of coping with things. [44:03]


PATIENT: Yeah for instance at work this morning my boss ... not this morning; yesterday afternoon ... he said something about there was some drums out on the loading dock. I went out there and got them and brought them in. So this morning I came in and he was getting all of his stuff rounded up for his meeting. They have this all day session. And he was pointing out two or three things he wanted me to try and do. And oh course I already had my day planned. So I treated both of them ... there was two major things he told me he wanted done ... I figured both of them into the day. Whereas some time ago it would seem like I would ... I don't know ... looked at it a different way maybe. 


I mean I had expense reports for April that I had to do. I had a trip report for June out of town stuff that I needed to write up and get the secretary to type. I had something else that I had intended to do today. I can't think what it was right now. But anyway on these two or three things were going to occupy my whole day while he was busy I wouldn't have to be bothered with him calling me every ten minutes it seemed like you know. Which he doesn't do but I accept it that way. And so instead of getting all flustered about the fact that he give me a couple more things to do, I just kind of accepted it and reshuffled my schedule in my mind and started out to do it. It seemed like the day wasn't any more haggard than any other day. I accomplished everything that really felt like was necessary. 


COUNSELOR: Sorted out the important things and did them.


PATIENT: Yeah this, is important, I'll do it first. This, is next important I'll do it next in line. And at noon I was able to say well I've done this project and then feel fairly ... and I told him the other two things that I had accomplished during the morning. Which all three of them were a good four hours work at least. Felt fairly secure in the fact that I had done my part of the load I guess you'd say. [46:23] 


COUNSELOR: So secure and like you'd done something that deserves his approval and you put in a full morning and you'd done enough.


PATIENT: Consequently I sneaked myself into the line with all the other big wigs and got myself a free lunch out of the deal. This, is kind of funny. Whatever they have these all day meetings see where they all go upstairs and he picks up the tab for the lunch. Well the other guy, the intern and the other specialist that I work with, all three of us kind of try to finagle ourselves into the line whenever this goes through the cafeteria. I'm with that party and get a free lunch. This, is our bet and he kind of expects anyhow I think. So consequently when noon came I had a phone message for one of the guys that I picked up from the secretary to give to one of the guys in this thing. And I tried to weasel my way in and started talking to one of the guys and got through the line and said I'm with that party and got a free lunch and didn't feel bad about it at all. Because I felt like well I've done a few things that he might have felt like was worthwhile in buying me my lunch. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You felt like you earned it.


PATIENT: A lot of times I wonder why in the Sam Hill they don't do like some of our labs and give free lunch anyhow. The Southern division has a lab up here in the North
south-side and the guys in the Southern division say that the cafeteria there is absolutely free. You go in and get your food and you sit down and eat it. No cost involved. It's just a fringe benefit that they have. And it's often passed through my mind that why in the Sam Hill won't they do that for their salary people instead of ... as well as their hourly people in this lab. [48:05]


I guess when you get right down to it I'd be like the guy in charge of it all. I'd have everybody as my friend and nobody ... and everybody would be going broke at the same time. At least that's my opinion of the situation. If I was a big wig I'd have free coffee, free lunches, you know, good fringe benefits for the poor working guys. At least I say I would. [Inaudible] get to be the boss.


COUNSELOR: Too easy following him.


PATIENT: I guess. I feel like if you treat people right they'll treat you right. If you have people working under you then buy their lunch every once in awhile or let them have time off when they really want it. Let them [inaudible] and work overtime for free or something like this. And this, is the way I feel that my boss ought to be to me because I've gone in the lab and worked overtime. I made sure I mentioned the fact that I got up at 5 o'clock New York time and was in the lab by 6 o'clock New York time the other day. And by noon I claimed six hours of work. Good hard work out in the lab where you sweat up a storm and all this. And I don't suppose it really got me any points but I thought I would let him know that I was responsible enough to get in there and do the job. 


COUNSELOR: You feel like you deserve some recognition and viewed more concrete.


PATIENT: I feel like another thing to consider is the fact that last few days I have been feeling so tired and dragged out that I thought well I 'd kind of like to take two or three days off but I can't quite see it for the next couple of weeks. [50:09]


Another thing that works on me whenever I think about taking time off I'd have to probably just stay home and why stay home and fight the kids when you can go to work and fight other people. What's the difference? You get.


COUNSELOR: You wouldn't get any [inaudible] or anything.


PATIENT: Wouldn't get any. Told my wife last night as she walked out the door I told her I was tired. I'd kind of like to take a couple of three days off and go to a cabin out in the wilderness and just by myself. She said "You're not going to take anybody with you?" I said well I'd take you with me if you didn't take the kids. Which is my way of saying I love you but I don't know whether she accepted it that way or not. 


COUNSELOR: Not sure whether she got the message.


PATIENT: Yeah. This I hear with this ... I told her I got this kind of an indifferent attitude from her every time it seemed like I told her I loved her. And she just kind of looked at me. And this, is one reason I've been wondering if there was a boyfriend and she said "Well I don't recall you saying it." She says there for two weeks straight you didn't say it. I said well I felt like I said it maybe you just didn't hear it. I recalled I couldn't go back and put my finger on a tape recorder and play everything I said but she claimed that I didn't even tell her I loved her for about two weeks in a row she said. I felt like I was saying it and she just wasn't hearing it or something. 


COUNSELOR: And something you feel about that like and she should have heard it and why didn't she hear it.


PATIENT: Yeah that's one thing she ought to hear all of the time from me whether I say it or not. I'm the kind of guy that the other day on the way home I stopped and thinking about I'd sure like to stop and pick up just a few little flowers just to take home to show her I love her. And I didn't. So I went on home. And consequently the next day at work why I realized that after I paid my boss back the money he loaned me because business office wasn't open and I couldn't get some expense money and everything I was flat broke see. So if I would have stopped and bought her these flowers I wouldn't have enough money to get home probably. So I said well this, is the reason I didn't stop and buy them ... rationalizing. When it gets right down to it it's the fact that it just wasn't that convenient maybe that I could have stopped and got her something. [52:44] 


I think though the same way about that as I do about bringing the kids home toys whenever I go on a business trip. When I first started going out of town I'd try to bring the kids home some little trinkets or something. It soon got through to me that what I brought home to them didn't last 24 hours. They had it torn up, lost, given away or something. It just didn't behoove me to bring anything home to them anymore.


COUNSELOR: Yeah made you feel like what's the point.


PATIENT: Yeah and so this, is kind of another attitude that worked on me back there. Why would you take flowers home? What would it prove? When really I should look at it different because about ... oh I don't know ... 6 to 8 months ago I was out of town. I think it was her birthday or some little anniversary or something or other. So I called the florist in the town where we were ... where I was ... and had them wire some flowers to her not even knowing that she was sick in bed you know. She'd gone home sick that day and gone to bed and the flowers came the next morning see. And she was in bed for about two or three days there while I was out of town. And this really hit her because I sent her flowers right after she got sick. And I didn't even know that she was sick see. So I don't know maybe I hit a tender point again and get some points in with her if I did things like that though. I didn't. [54:15] 


COUNSELOR: Maybe you don't all of the time feel that giving in some to her. 


PATIENT: Well like I say when I'm out of town and not knowing what she's doing it kind of ... why should you take flowers home to her when she might be out with a new boyfriend. 


COUNSELOR: Feel like you are mistrustful and you're supposed to be angry. Not loving and things.


PATIENT: Yeah why come home loving ...


COUNSELOR: You don't know if ...


PATIENT: And get hit with the orchid. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Now this goes back to the past experience when I was ... felt I was being tender and loving and everything and unbeknownst she had a boyfriend or two or three. And so that to me well why try to be tender and loving whether you're really wanting anything from it or not. 


COUNSELOR: If you were all tender and loving to her and then she was making off on the phone. And you feel like well the hell with that.


PATIENT: That didn't gain anything there. Why should it gain anything now? 


COUNSELOR: It didn't make any difference to her then. Why should it now? It's almost like she's lost her chance. [56:16]


PATIENT: It would seem that way. 


COUNSELOR: And you're like what she did made you feel this way and she brought it on herself. 


PATIENT: There yesterday when I was talking to her. I said something. I don't know what it was but she says ... all it was about this idea of her being kind of distance to me ... and I said you don't have a boyfriend. And she says "Nope, maybe that's what I need." And this kind of cut through a grain the wrong way or ruffled my feathers and didn't suit me, set well with me or whatever you want to call it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah it felt like a cut to you. 


I guess we should be quitting. So you're going to be out of town early next week?


PATIENT: Yeah it looks like it. I'm going to be there Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday somewhere in there right at the moment. I kind of hate to schedule one and then get out there ... and I almost forgot the other day ... I was trying to get back on Friday and I didn't really remember that I had the appointment until about 3 o'clock. And I was real busy but I turned around and stopped for a minute to call and cancelled and rescheduled for this past Monday now. Well the minute after I got back out to the floor and started working my boss says "Hey could you be down here Monday morning?" 


COUNSELOR: Right. 


PATIENT: I had all intensions of being there Tuesday morning see. So when I get out of town and remember these appointments, it's kind of hard to call and cancel. 


COUNSELOR: Should we make one for Wednesday or is that going to be hard to cancel if you can't make it?


PATIENT: Can we make it for late Wednesday or is that going to be alright?


COUNSELOR: Sure, sure. Oh sort of late Wednesday like 3:30 unless ...


PATIENT: Well ok let's say 3:30 and then maybe I can. Well see if I don't get out ... if I don't get out of town by say 6 or 7 o'clock I usually stay over. And if I go in the lab I'm liable to get tied up until noon before I can get away and then with the flight and everything I still couldn't be back here by 3:30. So that's why I was thinking maybe 5 or 6 maybe but ...


COUNSELOR: That's a little too late for me because I'm going to have dinner here. [I can't manage that] (ph). [59:27]


PATIENT: Can we set one up then say for Thursday?


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: Alright. 


COUNSELOR: Why don't we make that 4:30 on Thursday?


PATIENT: Okay. Or even earlier on that day would be alright because then I can take a couple hours off from work and come over.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 4:00 or 4:30 would be the best for me on Thursday.


PATIENT: Well I'll make it 4:30 then. And I'll drive special that day. 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


[Pause]


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: I'll see you.


COUNSELOR: Great. Have a good trip.


PATIENT: Oh I don't know. Is there such a thing as a good trip?


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible]


PATIENT: Bye-bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
