TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: 1, 2, 3, 4 1, 2


(Claps hands and snaps fingers)


COUNSELOR: This is interview ... oh dear number ... four I think that - yeah interview number four.  1970. 


Hi. Good Morning. I don't know if I dare to turn that thing off again. Apparently I did it this morning and never turned it back on.


PATIENT: You get it on?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. The glare. That going to bother you you think?


(Cough)


PATIENT: That's fine.


COUNSELOR: Good morning. Okay. How are you?


PATIENT: I'm fine. How about you?


When I was walking over here today I was thinking about something. (sighs) You brought up something last time that really sunk I guess on with me. That was the idea that remember the last time you were talking about things that I had to go back to. And you said what if I just slept and then go back. And I took you that things would get done but I wouldn't be a part of it. That really had a very profound impression on me because ... I guess that's the thing that really bothers me. Is that I really don't want to be left out. And I don't know whether that's unnatural or not. I guess I'm normal.


That rocked a bombshell last night when she said that we for each one - three little boys. And one of them is eight and one of them is six and one of them is an infant. Well with the eight year old he's had [fever out] (ph) (sp?) seizures. That's the when he gets a high fever he convulses. And so he's been on anti-convulsive (inaudible at 2:34). But he was slow to talk. This was before is fever out convulsions. And so Susan always got the idea somehow that he was mentally retarded. He talked some ... he tends to reverse his words talking and still yet but we don't talk very well ourselves. We mumble - I mumble a lot especially. And she doesn't do that well herself. [3:04]


But she actually thought that he was mentally retarded. Well now it seems that he's beginning to bloom. That he's not mentally retarded at all. He seems to be rather smart. So the second child - two years difference - tends to be aggressive. Tends to really throw himself at you a lot. Tends to constantly be hitting at you almost. Not physically. Sometimes physically but always this kind of verbal jab you know I'm not going to do this. I'm not going to do that. This sort of thing so - he's six. He's very, very quiet, doesn't enter into any of the games at school and ... unless oh course his big brother is with him. Well I see these things as kind of developing of credibility in situations. You know himself, people around him and things like that. But she dropped the bombshell last night that she thought he ought to go into therapy. 


COUNSELOR: The second one?


PATIENT: The second one. She originally thought that the first one should go into therapy probably too. We - that collimated and that's finally taking him to a neurologist. And that the guys of - I mean he had fever opt convulsions check which we were suggesting that. But also we're a little bit of a diagnostic to whether he was retarded or not. You know what I'm saying? 


I get two feelings out of it. I get the feeling first of all that she thinks that therapy's a (inaudible at 4:43). You know she's had very good experience under therapy. Right now I guess I'm too early to see much of - either way. I hope I'm too early to know anyway. Because I really haven't felt any great change. There hasn't been any shot of adrenalin. But she thought that the second child should go into therapy. And really it really upset me. And I kept thinking about this thing that we had said the other day about the fact that I wanted to be a part of solving problems. And.


COUNSELOR: And that I guess it's sort of an example of being - of sort of lifting it out and saying here go take him to a therapist and have it looked at.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I feel like saying to her you know it's just because you want to ... you don't want to take the responsibility ... for any of his actions. You don't want to work with him through this. And she keeps saying to me in so many words well I don't see that I'm the only person who can work through it. Sometimes I have so many blind spots that I can't see. And it frightens me because I ... I guess I have some - still a hell of a lot of reservations about doing what I'm doing. It's hard for me. I thought walking over here well there are a lot of things that need to be looked at I guess. But it's hard. [6:12]


COUNSELOR: You get.


PATIENT: I guess. But it's hard for me to get started. It's hard for me to sit down and start being that introspective. I got to - I just haven't gotten use to the idea on the condition - regimen type if you want to. And to the idea of the fact that here it's my time to examine me. I'm just not use to that - that formula. And.


COUNSELOR: I sense two things that to you - I'm not use to it. And I'm not sure I really want to. Like it's a mere question still.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Do you want to get into that kind of thing at all.


PATIENT: Right. And I'm waiting for you to say well you don't have to. Why don't you leave? 


(Laughter)


PATIENT: I guess for a while - for a long time now I say things and expect an answer. You know not giving me much freedom other than to stand there and do it. I still anticipate answers. I guess it's a way of not getting hurt so bad. You anticipate the answer. I'm still waiting for you to slap my hands with a ruler ... and say well now that's one of the you know.


COUNSELOR: You really ought to know better than that. 


PATIENT: Right. Right. I'm really waiting for you to put me down. Then I'll have some reason to say yeah see it's not working at all. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: How could something be is frightening? And ... it's a matter of 20 appointments and six bottles of (inaudible at 7:46) fever convulsion. Where you go and really get your money's worth. You got to draw on yourself. Which is why I guess I attack a lot on her. I just drive. 


She talks a lot about this being comfortable. She didn't talk about that because it hadn't been comfortable. That's a pansy's approach. You got to force yourself. And yeah by her saying that I feel I have to force myself. I guess I have pretty - I guess I've been looking at what we've been doing here. And it's hard though she seems to be so much further along than I am. And like I said I guess I have a lot of things to control. I use to bring up some things because it sounds like repetition. And I just really don't know what to do. I have these bad. I haven't understand what we're doing and how this helps and.


COUNSELOR: And you know ... that's where does this go? Where is it going? And why should it be helpful? And I guess needing something - some structure.


PATIENT: Yeah. Where is it going? I mean that.


COUNSELOR: Where do you want to take it?


PATIENT: I don't know. I knew you were going to say that. [9:15]

(Laughter)


PATIENT: Just one - in my (inaudible at 9:20) Well damn it. Well what do you think? Do you think I ought to say yeah, yeah I think it's a good idea for Daniel to go to therapy? I don't know. It frightens me a little. You know I like to provide him with the best I could. And for me to - see it's like saying I dislike motherhood. You know to say that I dislike the idea of putting Daniel in therapy. You know?


COUNSELOR: That's a terrible thing to say.


PATIENT: That's a terrible thing to say. And then I wonder what could - I think he could probably get some good eyes (ph) there. Seems to be a fine line between having too much and getting too much into these people. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I think I'm far enough. You can put (inaudible at 10:23) from the people you really care about. Getting so into them that you're so wrapped up in it that you're blind at thought.


COUNSELOR: That almost they all become one some days? Yeah?


PATIENT: That the responsibility - just the shear responsibility of all of the things that are going on get to be so much that you can't be effective because you're all hand strung about your responsibility. (sighs) It's hard right for five people to live in our house. 


COUNSELOR: You know I suddenly when you said hand strung I guess that's suddenly the picture that comes to mind. That everybody has a string that


PATIENT: Their cord.


COUNSELOR: Ties to everybody else. And whatever end like pulls all of you. (laughs) Pulled in different directions - it could maybe get very confusing and.


PATIENT: Right. It really can. 


COUNSELOR: I guess.


PATIENT: I guess I feel like I'm not providing them with something that I should be providing them with. And yet I feel like I'm making judgments on her that she can't tend to live with. I get it all worked out for her and I can't pull it off. I'm really having the feeling that she probably could get along well without me. Maybe even better without me.


COUNSELOR: Feeling left out again.


PATIENT: Yeah. And I guess I can really strongly identify with Daniel. He's the one that uses I guess aggressiveness ... for a sense of feeling deep down inside that he doesn't belong. That nobody would - if he wasn't aggressive nobody would really notice him or would really care about him. And maybe that's secretly imposing some of the feelings that I have on him or maybe that's real. But ... that may account for some of my aggressiveness. But I just don't - I don't want to go unnoticed. [12:37]


COUNSELOR: Like (inaudible at 12:41) in your eye and 


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Something. Don't beat me up.


PATIENT: Right. I guess that's one of the reasons I've always been so verbal and so pushy ... just because I really don't want to be left out. I just don't want to be ... a non-entity with people I know. Did you ever read the Harry Ape (ph)? It's a play by ... I can't think of the guy's name anymore - an English writer over the 1900s. 


Harry Ape talks about ... a very hard phobia, hard hat today you know tiresome. His internal experiences and the fact that nobody will really relate to - will really relate to it. He's getting on a bus one day and this old, fat, plump guy and he knocks the old, fat, plump guy over. So he knows (inaudible at 13:52). And the guy comes right back and he's got a smile on his face. And he hits him again. And that's when I can still smile. This is sort of like letting you believe if you knock over a plump guy coming it never changes he's expression. Sometimes feel a real a kinship to that as the fact that ... that I bounce (inaudible at 14:12) with people. You know to come in contact with people and never have much with them of. That's what I think would happen if I just completely let down. (Inaudible at 14:24) I probably wouldn't be able to muster up anything at all. 


COUNSELOR: So your meaning would be a nothing then?


PATIENT: Yeah. And that would really bother me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I over identify with Daniel I'm sure because I was a middle child. And instead of two years it was fourteen months separating my older brother and I. 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: And ... it was only when I became the great athlete that he was not able to do that - that I received any acclamations from my whole family circle. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 15:10)


PATIENT: I guess that hurt. And yet how do you take this little guy who is so aggressive and tell him he doesn't have to be that aggressive? And then how do you take the big guy who's telling him that he doesn't have to be so aggressive and tell him he doesn't have to be so aggressive? I don't know. I guess he's the same in aggressiveness as our world. Who's to say that it's not right to be someone who wants to be somebody? [15:43]


COUNSELOR: It's kind of underneath it. The question comes up so what's wrong with wanting to be that.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Right. You know when we talked the first time I talked about the way that I felt that the laws and the kind of the cultural traditions were made such that it appears to me almost as if there are certain molds that once you fit into ... ticky tacky boxes. And ... I don't think I'm one of them to fit into the ticky tacky box.


COUNSELOR: Okay like I want to be an individual.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: A real person.


PATIENT: A real person.


COUNSELOR: And I'm afraid or something.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: It honestly seems that way.


PATIENT: Yeah. Not only that but that ... that I'm not sure of the ticky tacky boxes - that the ticky tacky boxes are wrong. It's a great criteria of being aggressive but not too aggressive, of being nice but not too nice and being mean but not too mean. That all of these things are this moderation ... you do everything but do it in moderation I think. It's like for any of us. And yet I keep getting the impression that's (inaudible at 17:10) The people who overtly say they care about me ... have these little molds they'd like me to fit. I felt guilty like I said. I felt terrible guilt because you know after the last two days hoping that -she's called me a couple of times. And chance (ph) thinks I'm a quiet fellow. You know that I'm very nice. 


One of the other problems I've never been able to take. I don't like to be very nice. I don't like to be thought of as some ideal. I felt very guilty about that. But I have not painted anything but a very ... usually bad picture or path. It looks - it must look like we're teeter tottering on the edge of divorce. And I would honestly say we probably have teeter tottered on the edge of divorce now for five years. And we'll probably do it for a while longer. It's never been really a threat though. If you can understand that. It like really never - I have never considered living with anybody else basically because I don't want to get started through all this (laughs) thing again with anybody else. [18:28] 


COUNSELOR: No.


PATIENT: Yeah I got use to laziness. Maybe I really love it. I felt very guilty because I felt like she had painted a picture of me. And then I painted another picture of her. And they're so (inaudible at 18:41)


COUNSELOR: Yeah like being like well she must be saying nice things about me and making me good.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And I'm not doing that for her.


PATIENT: Right. But.


COUNSELOR: I get - I keep getting that you had completed an awful lot of comparison with - of therapy going on or something. And it's very hard for you to see your - what you're doing here - just in terms of what's going on here. Because that. 


PATIENT: You see right. You see very right. I mean you know. It's like maybe one of the problems is that I've heard so much about her - her therapy. It's because I guess you know she feels free to talk to me. And she's always been very open. Almost to the point of beating each other to death with truth you know with honesty, with openness, with almost as though nothing is ever kept from the other person. Nothing. There's always something. You know always something. But we have been I think rather open. (coughs) And ... I guess the thing that really surprises me is that I don't find this as intense as I find what she - how I feel she is saying to me. Her's seems much more intent. Intense not intent. And this seems kind of more relaxed. I don't think that you could probably live in the same house and a lack of (inaudible at 20:28). I don't know. 


COUNSELOR: And lack what?


PATIENT: And lack of therapy.


COUNSELOR: And lack - I think it would be very hard. Yeah when you're alone.


PATIENT: But you're right that I'm not.


COUNSELOR: I'm not saying that I don't think you can do it - should do it or that it would be possible not to do it but it's also the fact that clearly there. You know it sounds like you're feeling something like well the guilt about her ... my impression of her. But there's the jobs impression of you. And then in addition sometimes - I'm missing something here somewhere. [21:04]


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: She's got something that - the way she talks about you very different and what do you say?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Like that - like that (laughs) (inaudible at 21:13) [21:14]


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But I'm not sure I will like you know. I just it's just such a ... an enigma. It's enough to. I can't figure it out. No handle ... to grab on with. And yet when I like I said when I leave here I just feel really very right. When I come here I don't feel bad. Days like they start off pretty slowly but I try and think of the things that I'm going to talk about. (Inaudible at 21:54) to examine my sexual hang ups. Well no we've discussed that on Thursday but that's just repetitious. Well let's see. Should we discuss the children? Yes, let's discuss the children. 


Let me ask you a question off the record. Do you really think that - can you really say anything about my six year old? I mean do you think it's wise? I know that's putting you in a terrible position isn't it?


COUNSELOR: No. I guess I can't say much because I've never seen him. And I've never been near all of it or interacted with him so I have no (inaudible at 22:32) at this point.


PATIENT: How is that done? Is that done with the parents there too?


COUNSELOR: Well usually both the - well in a lot of different ways - with the parents or separately with the child alone. And sometimes you even have family there with everybody coming in and working together. 


PATIENT: Well see with family that's just it what happens?


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: This really (inaudible at 23:01)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 23:01)


PATIENT: This really gets complex because one of our friends or maybe - 10 years old or they have a 10 year, middle child, girl, very aggressive. You know she doesn't particularly bother me. We've been camping with them. And I think she's a pretty neat little girl. But she just drives them up the wall pretty much like Daniel drives us up the wall. And they're coming over for family therapy or suppose to start or some jazz like that. 


COUNSELOR: And I don't (inaudible at 23:35)


PATIENT: Yeah. And she said well it's better to do it when he's six years old than wait until he's Jacquelyn's age. And this is hurting Jacquelyn's age and you know. Then what you know? And I thought oh crap. You know everybody - the (inaudible at 23:50) is not fairer than that. You know? I really I don't know why I feel that way. Maybe it's because I feel that it's transfigurations (ph). 


COUNSELOR: Yeah but all of us expect some but you've flipped from (inaudible at 24:04) some of different (inaudible at 24:07).


PATIENT: Right. (Inaudible at 24:09)


COUNSELOR: And I've found - I keep hearing too some type of a ...there is something about it being done outside the family from where (inaudible at 24:19) But saying well that's taking away something from me or putting me out of it in some what. [24:28]


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: That you really don't want it. 


PATIENT: Right. I guess the greatest part of her working especially working at night where I babysat. It was really a terrible, lonely experience but there's also a very good -in her point of view that I had complete control of the children. You know I had to set the limits of how much I was going to give to them. And when I was going to say well that's enough. I've given you enough. That's not comfortable ... to say I have given you all I can give you. You see because they tend to demand. They demand right up until the end. They demand the last drop of water like you're dying of thirst. I mean they've just been to the water fountain. They demand that last drop. But I don't know. But at least I guess they're with ... and ... so I had to set the limits which I think was very good. 


But I have the feeling of really being there. Where often times when I go home and she - Susan's there, she tends to take over much of the - you know because she's been with them. She can't stand them yelling. By the time I get home she's really can't stand the yelling. And so she tends to be the really be the one that really pops off at them and says I think enough yelling. Go down to the basement and play or something like that. And I'm not ready for that. And I haven't said to her well Susan why don't I can it and you go upstairs. 


COUNSELOR: So you get a little.


PATIENT: Logistical things like dinner and bathing and getting them for bed and all this stuff. But when she was going out at 6 o'clock then suddenly I was in charge and all. 


COUNSELOR: So that felt good as well as lonely? But it really felt good to (inaudible at 26:16)


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: But then like it feels like she's there and you have to step back because you can't.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Can't do it you know. [It just doesn't occur to me somehow] (ph). 


PATIENT: Yeah and I do it at times. I'll wash the dishes while she's having this big hassle with them. I just keep washing the dishes (makes noise) right straight on through the hassle. And you know ... I tend to do that. If I can fix on something like washing the dishes or if I can fix on something like cleaning up the basement, I'll do that rather than actually enter into their personal problems. [26:53]


And that's interesting because I can enter into other people's problems fairly easily. But I guess that's the commitment I have to that group of people over there. You know that small family. Like that commitment is scary. More scary than working with patients or something of that nature ... because I.


COUNSELOR: Well you know it sounds like what I do ... well I feel much more involved in what I do with this - you feel this with the family - I feel much more like.


PATIENT: Feeling much more vulnerable with the moment. 


COUNSELOR: With the moment.


PATIENT: Right. Where if a patient ... you know if I can't make it with a patient - if something happens then I got all these alleys have to be (inaudible at 27:45) and I can refer them elsewhere. But with the family you know refer them elsewhere is a little more difficult to do.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So (inaudible at 27:58) It's one thing with (inaudible at 28:01) you want it. And you said I've experienced it when she wasn't there. But it's still hard on the other to do it when she is there. 


PATIENT: Yeah because she stopped working.


COUNSELOR: Like just sit there and say well okay and we'll act like you're not here. You go do the dishes or something and I'll put them to bed. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: That feels very hard.


PATIENT: That's because basically I guess I leave a lot of responsibility to her. Maybe I don't know if it's right to walk in and take over. 


COUNSELOR: You feel like taking it away from her sometimes?


PATIENT: Yeah because among other things that we're experiencing now, there were also some complications. Well ... well there's also the fact that she's tired of me being in the limelight you know in social situations. Well she's tired of me apparently directing her. And that's really hard to take but I guess I've always felt kind of easy going kind of let her be free. Let her do it - what she wanted. 


For her to all of a sudden cold cock me with the idea that this is war but in a very much of a committed way. I don't think I've been - I don't think I've ever been as committed to the marriage idea and to her as I have now. And maybe it's because of the fact that she's asserting her authority. I've always - she's always been one person with me and a completely different person in public. She's very quiet and very soft spoken. She's very loud with me. And she cusses a lot with me. And she's just not the type that cusses and argues in front of the street. She's very quiet and polite and all this sort of thing. And I pounded this into my head. So I've always known these two people. Where she has too you see. Where there's probably I'm very often quiet and out in public I'm very loud. And she's always talking about being very loud. See that's the type of thing I'm talking about. I'm told to - I'm telling you how to be quiet. And Susan tells me how to be quiet. [30:30]


That she's a person and she doesn't like to be interrupted. Yeah well how can I say you're not a person? I can't say that. How can I say I'm going to interrupt you? Because I'm not sure I will. I won't interrupt her. And I interrupt her and she just gets all huffy and then doesn't say anything for the rest of the evening. And then like you know a hell of a tight rope to walk. It's like.


COUNSELOR: You feel real bond and.


PATIENT: Yeah I really don't feel very comfortable going out in a social situations anymore at all. And yet like I said I think I'm really committed to her. And if it means being quiet out in social situations I guess I'll be quiet. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like there's a lot of - seems like shifting and changing going on that you're finding it hard to keep up with (inaudible at 31:23)


PATIENT: Right. It's like I'm really (inaudible at 31:24) in myself too.


COUNSELOR: And not wanting to lose yourself in the process.


PATIENT: Right. And myself I think that's the thing with ... I guess one of the reasons I haven't felt more affirmative about the therapy is that ... I don't know if I have - if I've really let go. You know really relinquished control ... or even given up a little bit of control. (laughs) You see?


COUNSELOR: That's the tough one.


PATIENT: It's almost like - sounds like I'd like you to take control. And said I am. Listen to me for five minutes and then go through 50 minute dissertation almost on which direction you know.


COUNSELOR: Where you should go?


PATIENT: What I.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 32:15)


PATIENT: Yeah how I should be.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Then I could memorize it and.


COUNSELOR: Not to tell you things like why don't you keep your mouth shut and when you're out in public? And.


PATIENT: Or you know you don't have to keep your - I love you.


(Laughs)


PATIENT: That's all you have to say. And you don't have to keep your mouth shut. But you know. I like for somebody to explain that to me I think. God you're a loud mouth. But do I like loud mouths? No. Nobody says that. I mean I can intellectualize and I can say look here. (sighs) If you're going to be that - you're going to be obvious. Then people are going to make comments. They always tend to make comments about the obvious person. And the wall flower other than to say there's a wall flower, they never say anything about. They don't know anything about him generally because he's not opening himself up. But if you be - if you're loud, then you're open. You're wide open. And you've got this wide open target. And they can just you know shoot at it very easily. (sighs) And this is what ... what I've been told many times ... that I make myself very vulnerable. And then people just think it's either a great sport or their prerogative to tell me this that and something else. And ... I take that but it does sink in. It does have an effect. [33:52]


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 33:52)


PATIENT: Right. You can't be told 750 times a year that you're not you know. You got too big of a mouth. And have it not hurt. And I guess there is really something wrong with competition. Something happened Sunday. [I can tell you anything about church I want] (ph). We go to this church around here right across from the - the University Baptist Church. And it's a crazy place. I mean you know it's the hop dead of the liberalism. I mean most of them are paper liberals. But they're very liberal on paper but I don't know. They tend to spout off the latest liberal dogma. If it's labeled liberal they'll believe it. And if it's labeled any other way it's got to be trash. Well that's true for probably maybe half of them. 


But anyway we go there. You know people are really very intense on knowing people. It's a very good situation. I basically affirm that the problem is though even when we first went there a couple years ago, I was able to stand up and say something. You know put a half a dozen words together and say it alright. Well Susan couldn't you see. So I was automatically the one that received most of the comments and the - I guess the many of the types of friendships. Well eventually over the period my popularity or whatever you want to call it. I guess popularity is as bad a term or as good a good as we want it - is ebbed. 


And then I heard since taking up with those people and realizing that this quiet, loving, just a mire thing is really a beautiful person. But I realized that she could be a beautiful person. I really like her because she's a beautiful person. But you see the thing of it is if we go to church now and everybody rushes up to talk to her and I take the other place. It's very lonely. [35:54]


COUNSELOR: Lonely. 


PATIENT: And that hurts. 


COUNSELOR: But when you feel that - like she's getting up. You're getting down. And she's getting more of everything. It really seems to cut you out.


PATIENT: Oh that's beautifully said. Because that's the way I feel about a lot of things. So I feel about anything from a church to therapy - you see she has gradually climbed out of the - she decided to go to therapy last summer. And it was a really tough time. I mean she was just hanging on low threads. She just wasn't making it very well at all - very unhappy. But I was Mr. Tough. And to realize that wasn't really too comfortable like. But anyway I was Mr. Tough. I was - she just kind of threw everything that - her problems right onto me. Well she's going to get up to apparently it seemed to me and to her - more I think to her than me that I've been going down. And ... I guess what I'm saying she's taking me down off this pedestal. And when she gets me down she doesn't like what she sees. And that really bothers me. 


COUNSELOR: Feel like she's saying well you're maybe not what I thought you were? 


PATIENT: Right. First this strong person that I married because it's always you know I've - when we first got married she wanted me to direct her. You know quit this job, have a baby, do this with the baby, do this with the young walker, do this with the next baby, do this with the two together as they learn to play together. And then as she's gone through this then she's begun to assert herself. And in the process it's made me feel very much like I've lost all of my strength. And.


COUNSELOR: So what you're really feeling is the real sense of something being pulled away from you and all of this sort of indicators that well see I am strong. And I'm the one who can really think about how to deal with these things. And somehow it feels like this is saying well you're not needed that much. You're not that strong. You're not that bigger person then.


PATIENT: She tells me I lecture to her. But a lecture is a ... [crock then] (ph). It's crap. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: And she actually comes out and says I need to stop lecturing her. That I don't need any - need to [bring up all the years] (ph) lectures.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: God that hurts. And so I play a game where I shut up. And I think about it and I get very bitter and very angry. [39:07]


COUNSELOR: Do you want (inaudible at 39:11) yelling at her or something.


PATIENT: Just leaving her. Just.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 39:15)


PATIENT: Yeah. Throw that out. It seems like if - if I'd rather her stay there. If I can't really let down and be corny or be ... tell her how I really feel without her saying well that's a bunch of crap or that's a lecture or the whole like that thing. It really doesn't - really doesn't need a lecture. I don't feel like I can do that. I mean it's like really whether be able to feel (inaudible at 39:52) yourself. Be able to solve an emotion. (Inaudible at 40:00) be very emotional is something that I protect myself ... I guess really being. That I really can't (inaudible at 40:15) feel like today. You know in part today. Very often that you say I'll have an offer that says something different. And all that sort of thing. I can play that game and then (inaudible at 40:28) so I can. But the emotional part didn't go off yesterday. You want to be all that. 


COUNSELOR: And you want that - you need some place for you to just be me.


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: Be strong. Be weak. And be young and be old and wise you know.


PATIENT: Yeah. And I have these feelings as well that sort of (sighs) pulling a man's pockets out I think is the worst thing he will admit. And maybe it is worst than what I did. But who came around it's like the best I ever saw. 


COUNSELOR: As long as like it - the thing right now don't make - jump to some conclusion that saying I even want to be where I am. And it's just that it really hurts. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I guess you know what already works better on anybody else. We've been - I guess I've been places like to school. And I left at whole population. And I looked at those girls and at that whole population. Like that's just the way they are. So I'm finding out I get my PhD and (inaudible at 41:46) And ... she always goes (inaudible at 41:52) It's really crazy. And I really feel funny. We talked about things like me working half time and her working half time. Which would be fair? (Inaudible at 42:12) Which I agree with in some parts but it makes me very bitter in others because it makes me look like I've given up you know and given nothing to her. But ... I don't know. We're half (inaudible 42:35). [42:36]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: You know a long, hard road and (coughs) I felt like it was basically her idea - the head choice. I don't know rather I've ever regretted having children or not. I don't think I'd like to go without having children. Not that I've given up a lot of (inaudible at 42:58) 


COUNSELOR: And you had to (inaudible at 43:03) 


PATIENT: And the fact that they're all boys means that this is love for a male. And I often wondered what it would be like to have a little girl. You know somebody who could adore. (Inaudible at 43:28) in our relationship only the fact that my boys do - are very loving. They really are. 


The thing that's really bothering her right now is the thing that's got me scared to death. (sighs) Our sexual life has dropped off to nothing. I mean it's two and three months before we have any kind of sexual relations. And then they're strained at best. And I guess because of the relationship she has with her therapist she's questioning and maybe even worrying about whether she's a you know is homosexual. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Dear God. You don't think that could scare you to death. I mean you know ... because fidelity has always been important to me. It's not too important. It's always been really important. I wish that - I'd wish that I didn't even have to think about having another woman. But ... I also don't care much for going three months without any. I mean that puts a hell of a strain on me. Especially when it appears there's a - there are available sources. Which I think you'd have to be realistic and say (inaudible at 45:00). Because I don't think it would mean much to me. It hurts me that our life can't be much - can't be better at least. 


COUNSELOR: It's like you're putting a lot on that - even if you have to turn to someone else.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: For sexual satisfaction.


PATIENT: That's right. 


COUNSELOR: And it sounds like saying somehow the idea of her feeling all day because she's really home (inaudible at 45:21) Very frightening with the problem. Does that mean I have to find my satisfaction some place else? [45:29]


PATIENT: Yeah. (sighs) That's hard to live with. I feel scared. But I don't know. It seems non biological lately. Go that like with those lengths of time without having any kind of sexual experience. And I just don't - I feel very inadequate too which doesn't help much. I mean my inadequacy is it never seems like I can just ease into making love. That ... if I give her a glance or something I can just move into very, very fast. And so I attract a very brotherly sisterly - well that doesn't feel very good for the woman you're married to.


COUNSELOR: You're saying in a way you really would like to be able to just get patience with it.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: Right. Say if she is (sighs) I don't understand why. I don't understand. Maybe it's something that happened back when we were early married. I watch the situation it probably is. But she doesn't like me to touch her with my hands at all. And it's really a funny feeling right now. I don't know. I'm sort of having all of those restrictions it's not much - it's just not much flavor to it. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you certainly felt guilt free to being the way you feel.


PATIENT: Right. In other words her restrictions for her feeling - good feelings has just completely restricted my feelings. And so it's rather ... rather routine if it does happen. And it doesn't happen very often. And I thought that maybe she'd work that out in therapy but that hasn't happened. She doesn't seem like she wants to even approach it. 


COUNSELOR: So it doesn't feel like it's that way.


PATIENT: Yeah. Pretty much. (sighs)


COUNSELOR: And it gets to you. Well I sense two feelings in that. It's one of maybe preventing it and that you're left with this it ties me up in knots.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And in another (inaudible at 48:12) Like how long can this go on.


PATIENT: Yeah. Like and too is it me or is it her? 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Where is it? [48:26]


PATIENT: Yeah. You know where do we put the blame? Where do we look at to start correcting problems and like I said basically I would like to correct it with her. And I can once again turn it over to the intellectual side and say well I witnessed in my father in the fact that he was unable to identify the fact that he felt basically insecure in his sexual behavior. And therefore found his identification outside of the family you see. That's part of the intellectual lies that that's the point of the outlets that you can pretext and use then. Do you know what I'm saying?


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 49:04) is that what you're saying?


PATIENT: Yeah but when it gets you in the gut. It would be very nice to have a great experience with a woman. It would probably be very nice to have a good experience with many, many women just to keep pumping it up. Just to keep making sure that you're attractive. That you're just don't - I just don't get that. Don't get looking and at least for a close up. Thank you very much let's say. But ... that I think is one of the - that maybe why I'm so scared of having a relationship with other women. It's because I feel like it's not impossible. It may be damn near. And I'm really starting to.


COUNSELOR: Getting the feeling of being like I really might be onto something. The satisfaction of you know being.


PATIENT: Than what do I do? 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Then what do I do?


PATIENT: If I find a woman who really loves me - being with me and really enjoys making love and really enjoys talking and really enjoys the whole works. Then what do I do? Here I've got three children. And I know it's probably not right to think about them in situations like that but you know I do. I don't want a broken home. I actually don't want to give up Susan because of the other good points and the good relationship. She does hear me many times. And I guess when I get to the end of the road and then what? (Inaudible at 50:52) So you going to have [major kin] (ph)?


COUNSELOR: Yeah I guess I have.


PATIENT: We're going to show up. And yet see I can talk to you about these things. I can't quite talk to her in the same way I talk to you. You know we can talk around other things - you can't talk directly. You don't play less and less games. But I really can't come out and say to her what's the restriction you put on me and completely eliminate all of my freedom. Because see I - she still lets me feel or I still have the power - one of the two to make her to just never stay home. I know where she's going when I can hit those very well. I mean. [51:45]


COUNSELOR: Could some way destroy.


PATIENT: I could destroy it. Yeah. And I could verbally ... beat her into a submission. But what that's? I mean you know. There's only one thing worse than that and that's physically beating someone into submission. What have you got? Nothing. 


COUNSELOR: That's a real - well and that's you don't want to rape her either.


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: But you want her to come to you and you would come to her. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But it sounds like feeling at this point we can't even talk about it.


PATIENT: Not where it really comes down to it. As I said if I brought up to her - I said to her you're restrictions has so limited my freedom that I don't enjoy it then you know I can see her up there gritting her teeth - getting very rigid while I think is the better gain but it's still not convincing to me. That turns me right off. 


COUNSELOR: You feel like if I say anymore than it will just stop completely. She'll be gone.


PATIENT: Yeah. And yet I have had hints that ... she could be very warm to probably somebody else. Which doesn't help with anything. That if you want to look for who's to blame that sure shifts the blame (inaudible at 53:26) in saying. I guess that sort of brings - I guess that may be why I'm so - it appears I'm so preoccupied with it. Because basically once again on the intellectual level I realize that that's not a - you know to be preoccupied with it. It's not really that where it's at really if you want to. Because I never missed another thing. But I know it must appear to her sometimes and I'm sure that it appeared to you that's where I'm at. The white 35 year old male, middle class, the limo what to do about the seven year itch and you know.


COUNSELOR: Well now what I hear you saying it's ... I'm at a point where she and I are not really fully together in some way and in some way I'd like us to go (inaudible at 54:34) But you like to be able to talk to each other more forward too. And in a way that would open the doors to being - feeling (inaudible at 54:45) what it's become. [54:46]


PATIENT: Yeah we've just need to be together and all in an awful lot of ways now but not that way. 


COUNSELOR: But somehow still not that.


PATIENT: And it seems to me that we've talked about sex so much and in so many ways and obviously my freedom being restricted. It comes as a great shock to be this. And I remember we had talked about - we talked about it in so many ways (sighs) that it's almost like we don't ... wiping the slate clean and starting all over again. Say let's - we have something we haven't talked about ever is sex. Let's talk about sex. But you can't do that. That's why I know that a lot of it has been slowly building up. And it seems like - I know it seems like on her part because I know she feels guilty about the two or three month's duration. She feels like that's part of her responsibility is to be a good sexual partner. But then you know you can't guilt herself into doing it. But ... and I feel like I've given up so much. I haven't. I've gone right along with everything she says. And maybe it's worked out this way ... to not be ... to kind of.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 56:15)


PATIENT: Oh My. About. Hey listen let me ask you one question. Are any mornings better for you?


COUNSELOR: Actually I think (inaudible at 56:26)


PATIENT: Because they sure would be for me.


COUNSELOR: Let's see. Well I have ... you like early morning like 8 o'clock?


PATIENT: That would be real good.


COUNSELOR: I have 8 o'clock on Friday.


PATIENT: Okay. That sounds great.


COUNSELOR: Matter of fact that would be a very good time for me.


PATIENT: Okay. Good. [56:55]


COUNSELOR: So then it would be the 7th.


PATIENT: Okay. Jacquelyn does everybody jump around like I do? From one thing to another?


COUNSELOR: A lot of people pretty much.


PATIENT: Do they really?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Do you feel like it's a lot of jumping around?


PATIENT: I feel like sometimes it can - you couldn't possibly know where I'm at because I'm moving so fast.


COUNSELOR: Well sometimes I felt like stopping and saying look wait I'm not sure where you are but then I felt like I caught up so I didn't say (laughs) anything about it. But there's times where I feel like I just can't catch your thought I would want to say.


PATIENT: Do you tend to make a diagnosis?


COUNSELOR: No. I'm not even looking at it that way somehow (ph).


PATIENT: That's a crazy thing because I still you know that's still early. 


COUNSELOR: Well yeah.


PATIENT: The ultimate. You're a success. I don't think make those diagrams.


COUNSELOR: What certain diagrams?


PATIENT: Issues in the whole group of treatments. And that's one of the problems I guess I am having. That's only natural. Excuse me. It's on an intellectual basis because for the fact that everyday I might diagnosis if it's this or that. And I'm never really quite sure like I just - I don't ever admit that. (laughs)


COUNSELOR: Yeah. (laughs)


PATIENT: So maybe I'm much better off without naming diagnoses. (laughs)


COUNSELOR: (laughs) See if you get the last coat of treat.


PATIENT: Equals out the treat. The diagnosis of the (inaudible at 58:29)


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: See you later. Bye.


COUNSELOR: Bye.
