*TEXT-PV010022  Thursday 24 October 1968              3360 3187   40  133
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (2-minute silence) I've been feeling quite nervous today and I, the whole day long I've been thinking it's because of possible things at school, but as soon as I came in here it just occurred to me that it might just be because of coming here.  (Coughs) Which —, and I think the reason that occurred to me was because I suddenly felt even more nervous.  Nervous in that my, I'd be shaking, my hands would shake or, and then in the afternoon I just felt as if my heart was beating about twice as fast and all during the day I kept thinking that well it's because I had thought of several things I wanted to be sure to get done today.  And so that I was pushing myself to get them done and also because of this continued feeling I have toward my assistant and the fact that I'm trying to control that since I don't, I think it's all for me that I'm feeling it.  (Pause) And yesterday I think maybe I was even more nervous than I thought, because at one point when you spoke to me, just the sound of your voice made me jump.  And that, I found that very surprising.  (Silence)
And last night I was thinking again about well, at some point I was thinking about my grandmother and again I was feeling quite upset, and then it just occurred to me that maybe there is some relationship between the fact that she died and, and the whole feeling I would have about my parents dying.  Because I think at one point I was thinking how I'd miss her because of all the nice memories I have of her.  And I think on the surface I'm in—, I'm inclined to think I don't have good memories on the whole of my parents.  And then it made my think, remember that I used to, I don't know how old I was when I did this — but I used to think a lot, or play this game with myself of how would I feel if my parents did die.  And then I'd go through a whole fantasy of how I'd react if they died, if one of them died, maybe both, I don't know if I ever did both together.  And I think it was only when I was doing that that I really thought that I'd miss them or that I needed them and that in my daily relationship with them I was trying to prove to myself that I didn't need them.  (Pause)
And maybe by doing that I got rid of my need to wish that they were dead.  I don't know, but I was, something struck me that I was reading in a book about teaching art and the fact that if children don't have creative outlets they will try to be destructive and have fantasies about mass destruction.  It just, it made me associate my obsession with death and with plane crashes and things like that to maybe this is in a way my way to enjoy the death of others and it's not me; and being sort of destructive.  And I think there even are times when I did actually suddenly have this urge to see this picture before me of something really destructive happen—, happening to a lot of people.  But I felt upset that I was thinking it, so I pushed it out of my mind and I don't remember now what it was I was thinking.  (Pause)
But perhaps I dwelled on all these other horrible deaths where people die and the making it this kind of fantasy acceptable to myself because they were things that had actually happened and I would keep telling myself the reason I wanted to think about it was because I felt so badly for them.  But now I wonder, because the great desire I had to read every horrible detail somehow makes me think well, might not have been so much a sympathy for them or a feeling for them.  And something else I haven't understood, when John Kennedy was assassinated I felt absolutely nothing.  It was almost like it didn't touch me at all.  But then when Robert Kennedy was killed, and I never had any feeling really, for either of them, politically or they were never heroes to me or anything, but when he was killed I was extremely upset and I couldn't understand why I was so upset.  And then I, I even couldn't tell whether I just wanted to be upset at something and that was a good thing to be upset at or I really had been upset at the whole business or just what.  Because when martin luther king was assassinated I wasn't particularly affected either.  (2-minute silence)
I was just thinking back to the feeling I had toward my assistant today and I know I'm just really at a loss right now.  I'm so unsure of myself that I haven't made up my mind what as the teacher in the room I want her to do and then regardless of what anybody else is doing I feel that I'm doing the right thing and so I just feel as if she's constantly being critical now, which she's, and she's not that kind of person.  And I just don't know now what my motives are when I ask her to do things and when I don't let her do things that I know she'd like to or when I think that it would be best if I do them, and I just feel in a, I, I don't know, I —.  (Silence)
I can say that one thing that's upsetting me is the sharing of the responsibility and so that I just, I have to be dominating everything all the time or else I somehow feel very insecure and inferior.  (Pause) I'm sure this is part of why this is all upsetting me with her because there are times when she handles things very well and that she should be.  But then after she's done it it bothers me very much.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you think of specific instances?
PATIENT:  When she handles things well?
ANALYST: No, this, this what you were just describing where she did something well and it bothered you.
PATIENT:  Well, partly just an—, any time she's working with the group and has them under control and then I'll think, oh, gee, I never am that good at getting them under control when it may not be so at all, but I just lose perspective.  I know I feel she is, I think I've already said it, plays well with them and any time when you can relax and be sort of playful that she's better.  And I think sometimes I feel as if the children are all going to her at any free time to talk to her rather than to me which, well, I've just lost perspective.  I don't know whether it's true or not.
ANALYST: So then you feel sort of jealous or envious.
PATIENT:  Oh, yes, very.  And I also feel now that since she worked with the girl in the other room, there's a closeness between them that she never had with the teacher last year in that room and I feel jealous of that.  And also that perhaps she had a type of responsibility when she was working with this other girl so that now that she's come back, she's very restless unless she can have an equal amount.  And then I think well, maybe she should be or shouldn't she, I don't know.  (Pause)
Or now she, another thing I think that's upsetting me is that sometimes I will have decided I want things done a certain way or else I won't have really made my mind up clearly so she asks me should we do this or that, I, I can see I give a kind of a ambiguous answer.  But to me it seems like I've made it clear at the time and she'll push it and then it just annoys me because it's almost like she won't even take direction from me anymore.  Or sometimes she'll want to do something a certain way and haven't wanted to but just the fact that she did want it makes me unsure of my decision.  And I th—, I don't know, maybe part of if is that the beginning of this year I really tried hard to make things freer for her and, and giving her more responsibility because I knew last year I hadn't done as much as I should have and perhaps now I feel I'm losing control over her and it's just because I've made her feel freer.
I know that's sometimes what happens to me with the children too.  I have this continual conflict between needing to dominate them and having to be the one to be sort of a dictator; and on the other hand knowing that they should be able to make choices in a lot of things and that they should feel free to express themselves; and as long as they're not yelling and screaming and running all over the place, that they should be free to let their bodies express themselves too.  And I'll do that for a while and then I suddenly can't stand it, so I get the other way and this, this conflict with them as well as with my assistant.  But I know one comment in particular has upset me today and I don't know why I asked her this but suddenly I wanted to ask her how she thought the day had been and yesterday she did more with the children.  Today I did more and so I said, well, seemed awfully hectic at times and then she said she liked yesterday better, and this again upset me very much, and I can't quite tell why except that I had thought today went better.  So then I took it as a criticism of the fact that first, I'm not doing, handling things as well as she and second that she wants to handle things more.  (Pause)
And I've been fighting something else too, because the girl I was the assistant to used to be uhm very domineering and she could really shut me out of the classroom in effect if she hadn't like something I did or if she'd felt at all insecure at the place I was getting in the class.  And so sometimes when I'm feeling this way toward my assistant, I can just feel myself wanting to do to her the same things that were done to me, but, but then I'm also very aware that I don't want to do them and so again I might start to do them and then I stop myself.  (Pause) And I think sometimes too I'm critical of the fact she doesn't take direction.  Well, when I am critical of that because I know really I'm not giving her direction very well, and I'm not doing that because I, I just can't make up my mind what direction I want to give her.  But I also just can't accept that maybe she just basically doesn't like working under a person like me and I have this compulsion to make her like working under me.  (Silence)
And I think that right from the very beginning I was in a way prepared to not like her.  Or, not exactly not like her, but to find fault with her, probably partly because it would build me up and partly because when I first saw her and she's remained this way, her personality is quite a loud and aggressive one and, and it just, I don't know, I, I , I always immediately react against people like that.  And even when I had thought she'd be somebody else's assistant which she was to be at first, and so I wouldn't have felt the feeling of having to be superior to her, I still felt a certain antagonism.  Because of this very aggressive way she has of being with other people and complete—, no inhibitions and no hesitation to say what she wants to say and saying it in a very loud voice, and these things have always bothered me.  And I think they bother me now partly because when we're with other teachers I somehow feel I should be leading from the two of us in a conversation but because of her aggression I immediately just com—, stay completely quiet and then that annoys me.  But I don't know why I really think I should be leading in a conversation either.  (Silence)
And I know the other thing that makes me feel under a terrific amount of tension is that next week we start conferences and right before conferences or reports, I, I really just blank out on children, I just feel I don't know them at all.  And then I feel I have to remember every little thing that they do that I think is significant.  (Silence)
It's funny I just somehow made a connection between the way she is, this assistant of mine, and my sister na, who also in the family and in company has always been perhaps the most social and the most outgoing and especially in family si—, situations, I always felt she kind of took over or my parents put her in the position of taking over.  And I suppose this feeling against that kind of situation anyway is again, I feel this too much competition or I'm feeling competitive and then I feel I can't hold up under it.  (Pause)
ANALYST: From, from all that you said, what, what you apparently feel most strongly, or anticipate in the conferences with the mothers is that a mother of the little boys will be angry at you for what you've done with him or what you haven't done.
PATIENT:  Very critical.
ANALYST: Critical, right.  Saying, what have you been doing with my little boy.
PATIENT:  Well, I know I was that way last year.  (Pause) And I can see that the problem is that a lot of the things I do do I've thought out quite carefully but I still don't have confidence in them, when it really comes down to having to argue what I've done against somebody else's ideas of what they would do.  And also the fact that I just don't want to have any criticism from anybody about anything.  (Pause) And I know that I just can't accept that some of that is just basic to living with different people so that whenever I do get criticism I always think that, well first I get angry at the person who criticized me and then I think well there must have been something I didn't do or did do that I could change and then they won't be critical.  (3-minutes silence)
I still think though, that what I'm aware is more on my mind is this conflict I'm feeling with my assistant.
ANALYST: Did you feel I was saying otherwise?
PATIENT:  I guess I did.  It seemed like you were saying that everything I've said, pointed to the fact that I was anticipating criticism from the parents.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Which would be sort of critical of you then, wouldn't it?  I mean there must be that element in what you heard then.  As though I was sort of contradicting you.
PATIENT:  I don't know, I suppose so.  But I also reacted to it because in a way it seemed to me I had tossed it in as an excuse for feeling the way I do when it didn't really have much to do with it.
ANALYST: I see.
PATIENT:  My worrying about, because in a way I feel much better about how I can relate to the parents this year, I'm much more confident.  I'm sure it's still an element but when I said it today I, it's almost now it seems to me almost as if I were trying to distract myself from the main thing which is this feeling I have about my assistant because I don't like thinking about, I don't like to think that I'm that small, that I feel the way I do.  (Pause) But when you do say something like that any time, it seems to me you're pulling together things I've been saying; I often think to myself, well, you must have seen something I didn't even notice or you must be right so I have to think about it again to find out what I missed.  Because I think something that seems to me now I did think about last night was the question you asked yesterday about whether I felt this was a little closed-in room or something, I can't remember exactly your question.  And at the time I tried to think about it but I really didn't have any reaction to it in, in feeling that it was.  And so afterward I remember thinking of what reaction do I have to the room and why couldn't I tell that I did feel that it was a little closed-in place or something, I don't kn—, it just came back to me as if well, I should think about it some more because I missed something.  But this is true with everybody that, when they, when somebody makes a comment I never thought of or adding to something I've said, or just in conversations or anything, I, I always assume they know exactly what they're talking about and that they're right.  Because often after we've been somewhere with other people, I might say something that somebody said and MSCZ will say well I thought that person was saying some awfully stupid things and I won't have thought anything was stupid that anybody says.  At the most I might have some vague feeling that they don't really know where they're going either.  Because this one girl in particular that, well, I don't really like her, but uhm, I don't have as strong a feeling about her as MSCZ does, does and she just babbles on and it's beginning now to really bother me.  But he immediately felt she was just acting in the most stupid way and saying the most meaningless things.  And I know at the time when I first met her I thought that even though I don't like her isn't it wonderful that she can be so much at ease and just talk and all those things.  (Silence)
And then it made me think of a boy I have in my room who has had a lot of problems with coordination and visual perception and things like that and he, one day I think I'd asked some other children to help with something because he was still at the point where he really couldn't help and he said — (pause, lights in the room went out briefly.)
It's funny, that time when the lights went out, I didn't feel quite so strongly, but I still felt, I don't know what the, apprehensive, apprehensive doesn't seem quite right, but, what I wanted to do was to stop right in the middle of the sentence and then just wait till they went on again.  (Silence)
Usually when I've been here this long I feel more relaxed, but I just feel practically as tense as when I came in now.  (Pause) And I, the tension that I feel is the kind that for other reasons I might be getting a headache but I just feel as if it's giving me a headache and it, and I have thought of this earlier since I've started coming here; but I used to get just horrible headaches when I was in high school, I think especially my senior year and I used to be convinced now (stammers) instead of getting stomachaches and thinking I had appendicitis now I was getting headaches and I was sure I had a brain tumor or something like that.  Sometimes it seemed to last for days and not go away.
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
