TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: It's been a long time.


PATIENT: Yeah how have you been?


COUNSELOR: Pretty good and you?


PATIENT: It's going awful fast isn't it?


COUNSELOR: Yeah something's wrong with it. 


PATIENT: Oh it's a track change. I thought I had a speed change. 


COUNSELOR: Excuse me I'll fuss with the testing tape. 


PATIENT: Probably doesn't make much difference what speed it is as long as you play it back at the same speed that you recorded it.


COUNSELOR: Right. 


PATIENT: That's a big question. How have I been? Up down and around. It seems the last time I was here I was very depressed.


COUNSELOR: Yeah I remember.


PATIENT: And than it seemed like oh three or four days there I kind of came out of it. Things have kind of been perking along about average I guess you would say. About a week or so ago it seemed like I was kind of up at the top riding along you know.


COUNSELOR: Feeling really good?


PATIENT: Feeling good and then last week I was on this trip out in Rhode Island and was feeling physically real good you know but emotionally I was kind of instable I guess for a lack of better word.


COUNSELOR: Instable.


PATIENT: Kept wanting somebody to talk to and oh course I was away from home. So I kind of I'm still in the same situation I guess.


COUNSELOR: In the same situation.


PATIENT: I don't think I'm really as physically as fit as I was. I slept too long last night in the movie and my back's about to kill me there. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah you're back's hurting you.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: It affects the way you feel too.


PATIENT: I don't know. It tends to have a depressing effect I guess you would say or something like that. 


COUNSELOR: So you're kind of down today.


PATIENT: Part of it has to do with the fact that I left work early. Home 1:30 Sunday afternoon a week ago. And I was on the road then until - while I got back home about 6:00 Friday night. And wife well wasn't overly exuberant to see me oh course. It was just average. 


I kind of hoped I'd miss it that long of a time being away from home and kind of yeah. [3:06]


COUNSELOR: It was kind of a let down. 


PATIENT: And the smallest part of the whole situation was the fact that my boss isn't in today. And I've just been kind of doing odds and ends today that I thought needed to be done ... some of them not too important others important. And I kind of expected a slap on the back at least for getting out there and busting my butt on the weekend. And get so customer half way soothed down because he had some drugs (ph) of ours that weren't sent to him.


COUNSELOR: You expected some appreciation and he isn't even around.


PATIENT: [inaudible at 3:46] and something. I don't know the words. There's an specialist from here that I met down in Missouri. And he and I worked on a project down there. And I was talking about how I left home on Sunday afternoon to do this you know get the project started so to speak. And he said wow he said that's ... he thought it was very commendable. But he's not my boss. And I said you know it's disguising when you realize that ... when you assume that your next raise will be just like your last one and then things like this will be forgotten.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like you are expecting to walk in and be appreciated. And when he wasn't there you kind of resented it.


PATIENT: Yeah in a way I did. It's really a petty way of looking at it because he had to be in Boston for a meeting today. It's like a kid kind of making an A on a paper or something and you take it home and your daddy is not there to say well that's good. Real childish. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah ...seems not so reasonable to you and yet you can't help feeling that way like you want your appreciation now.


PATIENT: Yeah. Grown-ups are just kids that have aged. 

So what have you been doing? You're home for a vacation?


COUNSELOR: That's right.


PATIENT: School starts what the beginning of the year or something?


COUNSELOR: It's a little earlier ... the 28th.


PATIENT: The 28th. It seemed like it always started about the 15th or the 20th there.


COUNSELOR: That's kind of late here.


PATIENT: Is it?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Is this semester or trimester or what?


COUNSELOR: Quarter system here.


PATIENT: Quarter system ... that's the final event of school ... that quarter system so I wouldn't know the first thing about it. [6:03]


COUNSELOR: Right. I just got back from Kansas City just today and am just home for the weekend. I was on a trip South before that. 


PATIENT: Out in the wild and wooly south?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: That's one hell of a place to be. Unless you have an air conditioned car. I was talking about this plant down in Louisiana the other day to somebody I said the only way I go down there is if I can live like an executive. And I told him this definition of executive. Last time down the old pike.


COUNSELOR: Yeah right. 


PATIENT: Boil it all down you get a [thimble for it.] (ph)


COUNSELOR: Yeah you feel like it. Asking yourself (ph) like no this, is the last time. What have I gotten out of it and is there really anything much or anything to enjoy.


PATIENT: [inaudible at 7:27] I've convince myself that it's just a session where I go in and sit and talk to you and the tape recorder. Still I kind of anticipate this little bit of you know here's what your problem is and here's what you ought to do about it. I kind of assumed at the very beginning.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: What did you do quit smoking?


COUNSELOR: Yeah I did.


PATIENT: Congratulations.


COUNSELOR: Thanks.


(Laughter)


PATIENT: I think I have just about half a notion too. 


COUNSELOR: It's like in a funny way like I guess even though in some sense you knew I really wasn't going to do that it's a little bit of a let down that you know like because you're not kidding me. Well now here it is that you expected in another sentence.


PATIENT: I got plenty sort of on my mind that you probably know by now. 


COUNSELOR: And kind of like having two attitudes at once.


PATIENT: Well knowing one thing is true or kind of half way assuming something then knowing that something else is really true. The reasons why I have sort of a disappointed attitude about it or most of them not just one thing ... that's just this idea of here's what your problem is and you're going to solve it. [9:11]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: It's just one facet of several things that I've kind of been looking towards I guess you'd say.


COUNSELOR: Been looking ... I didn't follow you there on that.


PATIENT: Going back to this motivation that the female of the species motivates me see. I've been kind of hoping I would you know going back to college you get to see all of these college girls and I think you know you may get to wink at one or have one with you too someday or something. Nothing like that's happened. (laughter) 


COUNSELOR: So that's another disappointment.


PATIENT: Yeah at times you know well that's kind of going to be like getting back to college again which is something that I know I probably never will accomplish. 


COUNSELOR: Now wait. What's going to be like going back to college again?


PATIENT: Coming down here every once in a while you know kind of maybe in some sense of the word would be like going back to college you know sort of treat it as a class. I mean you can't tell who you might meet in a college class.


COUNSELOR: You mean when you come here to the campus? Oh no I ... now I understand right.


PATIENT: You do know me well enough now that you know what I'm trying to say.


COUNSELOR: Actually I was just confused you know about at first I thought you meant that you had gone back to school and well I didn't know about that really. (laughter) No I knew that you were interested in the girls already.


PATIENT: Oh yeah. That's about 50 percent of my life I think sometimes. For one thing when I got out of the service I had high hopes of I'm going to go on and get a PhD in biology. And with my attitude towards studying that'll never be accomplished.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I just can't let myself sit down and study like you need to even get to the point where you get into graduate school so to speak. I keep thinking well maybe I'll find a school like the one I found in Virginia where they don't really require you to study that much you know you just kind of [stay on] (ph) top of the book and get enough to get by. And graduate school's not that way. [11:27]


[Pause]


PATIENT: [Lousy cigarettes altogether.] (ph)


COUNSELOR: Excuse me.


PATIENT: I said those lousy cigarettes all they seem to do is make me dizzy. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah and just feeling the dizziness come over you.


PATIENT: Sometimes they do and sometimes they don't.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. [12:54]


[Pause]


PATIENT: Back when I was going to the University of Virginia I use to go in and have sessions with this guy who was a leader I believe it was in this outdoor club that I guess you'd call it that I participated in. My biggest problem then seemed to be the fact that I was wanting friends. And I didn't really fit in with the group that was there. Most of them were much younger you know fresh out of high school and all this.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: They seemed to have their own little clicks and all this. And I never could work into one that I was interested in. And I use to go in and have sessions with him. He didn't do anything that but turn a sympathetic ear I guess you'd say. And I guess something like this has been going on for who knows how long. 


COUNSELOR: So you guess something like this would be going on.


PATIENT: I would be looking for somebody to talk to and just you know to my some called problems.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Were you implying that you miss having someone to talk to?


PATIENT: Yeah I think when I don't have somebody that I can sit down and talk to and feel some sort of closeness I guess you'd say I just kind of feel like I'm out there all by myself. I don't get this at home I don't feel. Don't get it at work oh course. Just feel unimportant (ph) at work.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You're isolated like.


PATIENT: Yeah I do. Here's your spirit. (ph) Get out there and fight your own battles. 


COUNSELOR: And there's no one on your side then. [15:45]


PATIENT: A lot of the times I feel like my spirit is too little for the battle. 


COUNSELOR: You can't do it. Don't have what it takes to do it.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And have to face that all on your own. 


PATIENT: I don't know. Talking to somebody maybe it's just I don't know pressure relief value or if they talk about themselves maybe realize it won't even got so bad either or something like that but anyway. Some sort of a little help I guess. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Okay.


[Pause]


COUNSELOR: You know when you said that I realized like you were expressing something the way you said that but I couldn't catch hold of what it was. [17:12]


PATIENT: You mean the part about having somebody to talk to?


COUNSELOR: Yeah you know. That it was a pressure value or something that maybe was a little bit of help like.


PATIENT: Yeah it's sort of like when the boiler gets a certain amount of pressure they have a pressure relief value and it doesn't blow up because it doesn't ...it's a means of relieving the pressure that has build up on it all. And this, is kind of what I look at this talk you know it's a pressure relief value. And don't ask me why my wife and I can't communicate like this. I don't know. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Seems like to me that she is of a mind to be - trying to accomplish as much as she can. And things like this just aren't in her schedule you know doesn't have time to feel sympathetic. 


COUNSELOR: Too busy to be sympathetic to you.


PATIENT: She's not inclined to be sympathetic. She doesn't you know she hasn't been brought up to feel that this, is in part of life. You feel sympathy for somebody when they are desperately sick or when have a close friend die or something like this. But only then.


COUNSELOR: Yeah not as an every day thing. [19:04]


PATIENT: No it's once in a great while thing. Under dyer circumstances. You know as long as you're going along living like day by day actually [living bigger than the dyer circumstances] (ph).


COUNSELOR: You'd sort of like to get home and at work like ... there isn't anyone that ... to listen in a sympathetic way.


PATIENT: Can't seem to see anybody right off hand. 


COUNSELOR: Which leaves you a bit...


PATIENT: Lost. In my way of looking at it.


COUNSELOR: Lonely and kind of lost kind of a drifting, unconnected.


PATIENT: That and once in [inaudible at 20:21] Hard to paint a picture of it but just an attitude that I have of being different I guess to me. The majority of the people that I know it seems to be kind of an unnecessary attitude to them.


COUNSELOR: Most people don't seem to need someone to talk to in the same way you do.


PATIENT: It seems that way.


COUNSELOR: So I guess sometimes you even wonder if it's a weakness? Maybe you didn't mean that way.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I guess you could look at it that way but what I'm wondering is if it's a weakness then how am I going to get rid of it? Is ... tell you what I'll forget it you know. It's not that easy to accomplish. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah because it's something that you need. Something that you want and feels good to you. [21:39]


PATIENT: Something I actually need and desire. Like I say it's just a part of me. Don't feel like I can get rid of maybe don't even want to. I don't know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah feels like it's you. 


PATIENT: I was like I said I left home on Sunday. And I called - well I called Sunday night I think but I called Monday night. Yeah Monday night and my daughter answered the phone and I asked her where her mother was. She says well she was out with Suzie which is the name of a girl she works with there at the nursing home. Oh course this didn't ... it just didn't seem like that was the truth at all to me. So it really hit me there at first. Then after awhile - a few minutes why I got over it so to speak and started watching a game on TV and got in groused in that. Didn't thinking too much about it. It still passed through my mind every once in awhile. 


Got tired of watching that and turned it off and went to bed. Well went off to sleep. Things were fine see. I had things like this keep me awake hours on end you know. And it was about two or three in the morning then why it - I woke up for some reason I guess. I can't believe the noise. Can't [turn to Suzie] (ph). Can't believe that you know? I know who she's with. And I know where they are and all of this stuff. So I couldn't hardly wait for the next night I could call [her and jump her about it] (ph) I guess you'd say. But she still stuck to the same story. And so I assumed that it might be true. 


When I got home I by that time convinced myself that's what she did and I'm still you know I'm tired of some things. And there's still a little bit of doubt in my mind. I already accepted it even to say well okay maybe that's what it was and then go on. 


But I get from her I get the impression that she thinks that every time I check into a motel - or that every motel I check into, something in the [inaudible at 24:38] a legitimate whore house. And that I have all kinds of fun. And I don't know it's just this, is the opinion that she gives me that she assumes these trips are just one party after another when it's really more the other way than it is that way. You go in. You work yourself to the point where you're almost ready to collapse and you go back to the motel. And there you be and go to bed. I think she kind of assumes that you know go back tired yet. You're refreshed and you're all this and on the ball. [25:19]


COUNSELOR: It's like more work from being at home.


PATIENT: I'm afraid to even tell her about the times that maybe I do sit and talk to somebody or something like that at night. For fear that this'll just kind of substantiate her doubts.


COUNSELOR: And you don't want her to be jealous of you?


PATIENT: I don't know. Sometimes I think I really want her to and other times no. I think a lot of the time yes this idea of wanting to have her have some suspicions of me is due to the fact that I've got a fling coming ... idea that presented it for.


COUNSELOR: But I guess this time wasn't one of the times when you're feeling like you know well let her worry a little [I guess] (ph).


PATIENT: No I just as soon not have her worry.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Like I said I had one occasion there where I sat and talked to this girl at the bar. It was a casual thing. And it's nothing I mean she wasn't overly interesting looking and all this. And her talk didn't do anything for her. Whatever you want to call it. [27:26]


COUNSELOR: No big deal. 


PATIENT: I told her one time there that when I ... well I've gotten to the point where I've kind of learned to read her to a certain degree and I had some kind of confused idea about the fact that I kind of half way wanted her to go out with this one guy. And yet I knew that if she did it was tearing me all kinds of you know tearing me up all kinds of ways. So this, is you know I had mentioned this to her and then this, is one reason I got all upset there Monday night I guess when I called and she wasn't home. 


COUNSELOR: Because you had mentioned it to her and then she wasn't home?


PATIENT: Yeah I assumed that she ...


(phone ringing)


COUNSELOR: I'm sorry.


PATIENT: That she was taking me up on it so to speak.


(background conversation - on phone)


COUNSELOR: Yeah I see what you mean like you'd mentioned it to her and then there she is gone. I'm like it seems almost like cause and effect.


PATIENT: See this was the thing about it. When she was doing all this why I called home and she'd be at so and so's house. And really she wouldn't be there. She'd be out with some guy. And so how am I to know now whether she's out with some guy or whether she actually is out. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah with Suzie or what. [29:35]


PATIENT: With Suzie or over at so and so's house or ...


COUNSELOR: Because it sounds just the same


PATIENT: Right it's the same song. I guess just different words. 


[Pause]


(phone ringing)


COUNSELOR: I'm sorry.


(background conversation - on phone)


COUNSELOR: So it's kind of the same way. In a sense you almost believe her and then just a little bit of doubt and sometimes it changes and you're sure that she's sleeping with someone.


PATIENT: Like I said I still have this little bit of doubt that it was actually that. You know all indications seem to point to the fact that maybe she was out with Suzie you know and all this but considering it was the same story that I got back when she wasn't.


COUNSELOR: Yeah so how do you tell like you just? [31:25]


PATIENT: I said I told her that I said well I'm going to verify this with Suzie. I said - I got to thinking you know that won't accomplish a thing because she do with Suzie like she did with these other people and say look if he comes and asks you about this it's always so and so and so on. We went out and did this and that and the other. So what would that prove?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you're stuck in a way.


PATIENT: I want to believe and yet I don't. 


COUNSELOR: You want to believe her and yet you don't believe her or you want to believe her and yet you don't want to believe her?


PATIENT: Well I think I want to believe her and yet I don't believe. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah right.


PATIENT: But then again the other part could be true too because I keep saying one of these days I'm going to find somebody that I can go to bed with that will you know I can kind of have my fling. And then when that time comes I won't want her checking on me anymore than I'm checking on her. 


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible at 33:02] Once you start having your fling you won't want her to be jealous of you but until that until such time as you actually do you want her you want her home.


PATIENT: Like I told you before that I wouldn't I don't know. I think I could bring my mind to say okay it's alright if I had somebody I could call up and say hey let's go have a few drinks. Then we can do whatever we so please like they do. Maybe that's saying like maybe that's saying you want your bread buttered on both sides. 


COUNSELOR: Like it a way you think that would be alright with you and then maybe well maybe you ought to not think that would be so good. [34:03]


PATIENT: Well actually that's what this idea of swinging is.


COUNSELOR: Yeah I know.


PATIENT: She's having fun while I'm having fun. When I'm not having fun she's not having fun on that idea. But we haven't pursued that idea lately. 


COUNSELOR: Swinging.


PATIENT: Right now I've got my mind off on this nudist idea. Oh course that's out until next summer.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But that was I guess an exhilarating experience for me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah exciting.


PATIENT: Something that you really can't put your mind into until you participate. You say well that might be fun but I don't know. I went out there wow this, is it you know. It is relaxing ... exciting at the same time. It's all a plenty jungled (ph) up mess but the other day there I was in the motel room and I saw somebody's at the door. I was running around with nothing on. I said I would be just about as inclined to go answer the door and not even up anything on. But then I know I would get all kinds of repercussions from doing something like that. But like I said it's something you can't really know what it's all like until you participate.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But that cost money.


COUNSELOR: And I guess that's another worry on things too. [36:01]


PATIENT: [Inaudible at 36:02] Costs 75 dollars to join that thing. And the only time you can really use it so to speak is during the summer months. That's kind of an expensive habit to support or whatever. 


[Pause]


PATIENT: Talking about what I was doing there at work today. It was half of hoping at this little intern would go upstairs with me. Say something about the fact that I wasn't working or something you know I was sitting there reading a magazine when she [inaudible at 37:52] So that I could tear into them (ph) about me working on the weekends. 


COUNSELOR: Just have somebody (laughter)


PATIENT: I'd just like for him to open his big mouth so I could put my fist in it. [38:03]


COUNSELOR: So of it isn't really wanting to assert you know like have people know you've been working hard all last weekend and you're ... they God damn well better recognize it.


PATIENT: I pity other people if they have the same attitude about their jobs as I do. I'm just burned out on it. I only go because that's what earns the paycheck and [inaudible at 39:28] but it is.


COUNSELOR: That's all you got. Nothing will get it to bring you that you like.


PATIENT: Well no it could be very interesting if I just got paid. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: What I felt I was worth. And I would be so inclined as to be like produce - should produce more - and it could work out to an interesting job but.


COUNSELOR: It's almost like putting your pride or something not to sell to yourself for cheap. [40:03]


PATIENT: Yes it is. I was reading these little things there and in some kind of brochure that came across my desk and it was telling about the guy that - biologist - that had worked on some kind of formulation and they decided - they got a formulation that they were well satisfied with and they patented it in fact. So the boss of this guy got his name on the patent. Well this guy turned around and sued. And the courts up held him because of the fact this you know he put in all of this time, worked on this thing and the fact that his name was on the patent was not only a you know maybe it wasn't a money making thing because there was no money involved there and reward you know they wouldn't give him any patent. Well they wouldn't financially reward his grade (ph) course for the patent but oh course the court said when there's a promotion or when he went to another job or something like this the fact that he had patent - that he had his name on a patent would be very beneficial financially. Well it's just about that way to me. [41:23]


COUNSELOR: You want what's coming to you.


PATIENT: I just don't feel like I've gotten any rewards from this job.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: For a hell of a long time.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You know they've just given you nothing and for so long. And there's no - lack of appreciation wanted (ph) in that. Must make you just sort of a little bit resentful underneath all the time.


PATIENT: Not a little bit. A whole lot. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Kind of start boiling but you know you better ... like I've got anything to do about it. Like it's not the kind of angry you could go smash someone with. There's nothing to do except sort of grind it in.


PATIENT: Sit there and take it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Or find yourself another job.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Haven't succeeded in that either. 


COUNSELOR: You just have to sit there and sit there. 


(Phone rings and answers it)


PATIENT: Just wanted to know I could call up here. (laughter) I would catch you right in the middle of a session.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. [I'm here a lot] (ph).


PATIENT: I don't want any alarm clocks bothering me. I try to wake up in the morning so that I can shut the alarm off before it goes off. Because when it goes off it jangles my nerves. [43:48]


(Pause)


PATIENT: [That's been a nightmare noise] (ph). Thinking you know that the last few months I've gotten to the point where I'm almost afraid to drive because I've had ... I don't know. Maybe it's the smoking. Maybe it's the fact that I'm just getting senile or something. And all these cars rushing around pedal to the medal seems to affect me or something. I don't know but.


COUNSELOR: Much more tense when you're driving?


PATIENT: Yeah. I'm much more reluctant to drive. Part of this has to do with the fact that I guess my insurance was cancelled out on me. And I got into an assigned risk thing that caused a nice increase in the insurance prices and thoroughly discussed me. This you know the world picking on me. [45:03]


COUNSELOR: Yeah like right now when you said that like it seems kind of funny to you and you're laughing at yourself.


PATIENT: Yeah I sound like a little kid that hasn't learned how to live in this world it seems like. I'm thirty some years old and I still sound like a 14 year old kid. 


COUNSELOR: A little embarrassed but I guess feeling like the mature thing to do would be to take things like that more in your stride or something.


PATIENT: Yep.


COUNSELOR: Not I guess not take them so personally or something.


PATIENT: I keep saying well maybe it has to do with the way you were raised. Your parents didn't put any emotional stress on you. Didn't expect you to act grown up or something. Now you don't know how to. I kind of half way blame them and yet you don't really want to blame them. Because they did everything they could supposedly.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Almost like you see yourself as really childish in some ways. Not what the other grown ups are doing. Like well they did their best but wishing they'd prepared you better for living in the world.


PATIENT: I think it's the world. It would have been much better off if my folks would have raised my wife and my wife's folks would have raised me. Because my wife was raised to be a boy. Stand on our own two feet and fight the world and all this stuff. And I was raised more like a girl. [47:35]


COUNSELOR: And so it's like triple hard to go out and act the way a man should act. 


PATIENT: Other things that don't seem manly about me seem to verify that theory.


COUNSELOR: Feel like you're not manly and feeling more like you're a woman?


PATIENT: Well not really. Feel like I have no gender.


COUNSELOR: Kind of neutered.


PATIENT: I don't get neither one of them really entirely and as much as I would want to fit one or the other. I've actually had thoughts a couple of times that I wished I'd been a girl. And I don't know why I'd get an idea like that. Maybe just seem like they had me [inaudible at 48:43]


COUNSELOR: It seems like a silly idea as you talk about it now.


PATIENT: Embarrassing really.


COUNSELOR: Not the kind of idea a man should have I guess.


PATIENT: Doesn't seem that way to me. 


COUNSELOR: Right. I guess not have something that's not having so many demands on you. 


PATIENT: Well yeah you don't have to get out and eight to five it everyday. You don't compete with guys that ... that you're more or less you're striving with the same abilities to accomplish something that you're slightly out of reach or something like that. Where as a woman needs to do the dishes, sweep the floor, have babies, whatever else it is. It just doesn't seem like that those jobs are too emotionally demanding. 


COUNSELOR: Don't it's like there's some kind of a reaching and frustration and reaching and frustration thing.


PATIENT: Yeah it's this church group thing to me it's ... well it's a source of accomplishment I guess you might say. Yeah I've gotten into a job where I'm some sort of a leader so to speak. Through only you know I'll just say I'll take it. And really I've realized in the last ... well the last month or so I guess that these women that are den mothers are really you know they put out a hell of a lot of work to be a den mother. And I'm actually wondering if I could hold up under all that strain. Fight these kids every week. Fight them once a month to get them to come to a group meeting and makes me wonder if I'm not better off with the eight to five, five day a week situation. [51:25]


COUNSELOR: Like that's certainly one place where you wouldn't want to trade places with a woman. (laughter)


PATIENT: No. Or at least I can go home tonight and say well now my job's finished.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Until tomorrow morning ... to a certain extent.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And you got a little bit of something or the other to accomplish but ... change diapers, soothe Joey's nerves because he had a fight with the kid across the street all this bit. I think women are more cut out to be physiologists than men are. 


COUNSELOR: What makes you say that?


PATIENT: Especially if they had to raise a couple of - three kids.


COUNSELOR: Having patience you mean?


PATIENT: They either have lots of patience or they would never get there. 


COUNSELOR: You thinking about the amount of time that's left or something?


PATIENT: [Time to see if it was time] (ph)


COUNSELOR: I noticed you checked your watch.


PATIENT: To see if it was time.


COUNSELOR: In terms of the kind of patience women have to have in sort of you know women's work is never done. It's - That part of it doesn't appeal to you? I mean you're not cut out for that.


PATIENT: No I don't think I'd be cut off for something like that either.


COUNSELOR: It's not that being a woman is so appealing I guess it's just the - it's such a strain being a man and trying to be a man and be the way a man should be in your mind. Is that putting it right for you?


PATIENT: Well the stressed seem to be more for a man than a woman. But a woman has to go more hours a day.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So you pay your money and take your choice. What do you want? Shorter hours or more work ... and less hours.


COUNSELOR: Yeah you don't really appeal to those stresses on you too.


PATIENT: Yeah a lot more than I should.


COUNSELOR: Feeling like you ought to be able to take it better? [54:08]


PATIENT: Well I ought to be able to either stand up under them or take them or whatever you want to call it or not let them bother me as much ... one of the two. 


I had a deflating experience about two weeks ago. I went out on an interview ... to a different type of job and it was a manager position. And I'm not interested in management for the most part ... not since I don't know. There's one manager's position in a hundred maybe that I could get use to but anyway. I went out to see them just kind of hoping maybe I could find out that well now they had a job over here in the technical center that was open also or something like that but anyway. The deflating part of it was when I took a test on biology you know I have a degree in biology and I'd like to plunk at anything. And so I passed it up because you know I didn't want to take it and not pass, I wasn't sure about my abilities anymore. Which is a flimsy excuse. I guess that I actually wondered well if you can't do biology and you got a degree then what good are you?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah like if you can't do what's your own field that's deflating in the serious way.


PATIENT: Yeah you just - well good grief I might as well quit looking for a job as a biologist because I couldn't do it. But then what can you do.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah because yeah ... made you feel like nothing. [56:03]


PATIENT: To a certain extent yeah. I can sum my vocational ability up in a few words. I'm this guy that can do a little bit of a lot of things, but nothing really exceptional. In this day and time they're all looking for the specialist you know the guy that can really do something exceptionally well. 


COUNSELOR: So you're not what they're looking for.


PATIENT: Nope. 


(Pause)


COUNSELOR: Meaning the field there is something that you're good at and something that you can take pride in.


PATIENT: Yeah. I need something to lean against so to speak I guess. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah I know what you mean.


PATIENT: Like I've failed in so many ways. Before I go I'd kind of like to ask you just kind of a man do you think I am. And I know you couldn't really answer that because you only know part of me. The part that's ... there's some other parts of me that I you know feel that you don't really know so. You've been really completely given evaluations. And I guess that's what I'm looking for in a lot of other ways ... when I know the answers myself to the very extent. [58:19]


COUNSELOR: But wanting to hear an evaluation from someone else even so.


PATIENT: I think I need somebody to say well now you're pretty good here but you need to work on this a little here. I mean that would be a great value to me. But it would take more than that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Is it that you'd really like to not to carry all of the weight of evaluating yourself by yourself like it would be sort of relaxing for not so that somebody else could worry about your inefficiencies and pay your ...


PATIENT: I have this father image you know the guy that comes here well now you need to improve a little bit here and you know and you're pretty doing good over here and all this. Which is what my boss was for a great deal of time but I think he destroyed that image as much as anything else because of the way I felt you know like I've been treated in the last couple of years.


There's very little else to that job except financial reward. You can't say well now there's my speciman on that truck. If you know more make that speciman and even if you did tell the lab just to collect the [out pay] (ph). 


COUNSELOR: Yeah just like you had a father image like it would help you become the kind of man you want to become.


PATIENT: Yeah. That's why I say I think my wife should have been raised in my family and I should have been raised in hers because I have a great deal of respect for her dad. He's a man in every sense of the word as far as I can see you know. And maybe with him around after ten years I'd have been some sort of a man now too. 


COUNSELOR: You're feeling like you're not. [60:43]


PATIENT: Not to a great extent no. You got any questions you want to ask? (laughter) It's just about that time.


COUNSELOR: Yeah right. You know when you said that you know like anything. I would have any questions about sort of went out of my mind because it was like right on the spot there. 


(laughter)


PATIENT: Off guard you.


COUNSELOR: Yeah right.


PATIENT: I thought you might have some question that you'd want to ask before it all came to a screeching Holt.


COUNSELOR: Does it feel - coming to a screeching Holt - does it feel abrupt to you?


PATIENT: Well when I realize it, it probably will.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: To me it's just an oh well I'll see you next week.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: As far as it goes right now. But then in a couple of weeks you know then I wished I could see her. Sit down and talk to her and that tape recorder again and you know I realize well that's all over with.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Go buy your own tape recorder.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like you're kind of being cut out on your own in some sense.


PATIENT: Sink or swim. [62:36]


COUNSELOR: And you haven't fully taken that in now and yet like there's something kind of cold and unfeeling about just being left there to sink or swim. 


PATIENT: Well not really. I keep saying well in this day and age you sign a contract. You fulfill your part. They fulfill theirs. And that's all there is to it. But ... I think that's been a couple of sessions ago. I think I'm going back to my old habits anyhow so. I got to find somebody to talk to. I'm just too nervous. Sit here and click my fingers. I'm allowed to do that right?


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: In church even ... [especially to tick off] (ph) my wife. (laughter) I said [inaudible at 64:00] I unconsciously do it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah right.


PATIENT: And it just bugs the hell out of her. 


COUNSELOR: I hope it goes well for you. Really.


PATIENT: Well I'll be looking forward to seeing myself written up in some book. (laughter) Project number ... I don't know. (laughter) Yeah [inaudible at 64:38] Thank you very much.


COUNSELOR: Yeah


PATIENT: I'll see you later.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Bye-Bye Stanley (ph).

 
END TRANSCRIPT
