<b>OBJECT RELATIONS FAMILY THERAPY</b>
<b>Introduction</b>
Jill Savege Scharff, M.D., serves as a Senior Faculty Member of Washington School of Psychiatry and Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Georgetown University. She received her education in Scotland with additional training at the Tavistock Clinic in England. She is a member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists in England and is board certified in adult and child psychiatry and certified in child and adult psychoanalysis by the American Psychoanalytic Association. Jill and her husband, David, are co-directors of the International Institute of Object Relations Therapy.
David E. Scharff, M.D., is clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences and also at Georgetown University. He is a Teaching Analyst at the Washington Psychoanalytic Institute, former president of the American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors and Therapists, and former Director of the Washington School of Psychiatry. Dr. Scharff has a medical degree from Harvard Medical School, and, after completing residency training at Massachusetts Mental Health Center and a child psychiatry fellowship at Beth Isreal Hospital and Children's Hospital in Washington, D.C., spent a year in further training in adolescent psychotherapy, object relations theory, and organizational consultation and research at the Tavistock Center in London. Certified in child and adult psychiatry and psychoanalysis, his first interest include object relations theory and psychoanalysis, family and couple therapy, and sexual development and therapy.
This transcript is an initial therapy session with Jill and David Scharff and a family consisting of the parents, Adrian and Judy, and their adult daughter, Pam. The presenting problem is Pam's lack of responsibility. In this session the Scharffs touch on an issue that is very difficult for the family to deal with.
<b>Session Transcript</b>
TH1 1: Well, thanks for coming in Adrian, Pam, and Judy. You were saying just before we started that you have a different thing going than when you were . . .F 1: Well, I had turned around and figured last time we had our interview that my wife and Idone 99:% of the talking, done our airing as you would call it. And I just thought that today would be a good time for Pam to do her airing on what she thought was wrong or what we do wrong that she doesn't like. I just thought it would be kind of fair for that. I mean, I don't know.
TH1 2: That was your idea?
F 2: That was my idea.
TH1 3: Just coming from a different place. Last time you were ready to talk.
F 3: Well, I can still talk, but it would be repetitious of what I had said last time. And for a while there she was doing real good, but she had gone right back to the old ways again. And so I would just like to . . .
TH1 4:  That's different from . .
M 1: We try once in a while. We give it a royal try, but it doesn't continue.
TH1 5:  Of course, we don't know anything about what the trouble is.
M 2: Well,
TH1 6:  What do they complain about?
D 1: Well, I don't do the housework when I come home from work. All I want to do is come home, sit in front of the computer, and just stay on there. I don't do anything. I don't want to clean house. All I want to do is sit on the computer. That's their main complaint.
F 4: No, no, no, that's only one of the small things. No,
D 2: Plus my attitude toward them is ooh, on the rocks.
TH1 7: Yes, on the rocks.
D 3: It's shaky.
M 3: A bit.
D 4: That's what I said, shaky.
TH1 8: And what else?
D 5: I don't know what else.
TH1 9:  Well, so far you are agreeing with what Pam is saying?
F 5: Oh yeah.
TH1 10:  You just think it's slightly understated?
F 6: Slightly. Well, she doesn't answer when she's talked to.
M 4: What we came for was for Pam to build her self esteem.  Um, to be  more cooperative at home, and to answer us when we talk to her. She doesn't give you an answer. One thing is her and a friend went out to dinner the other night, and they came back, and I said well, where did you go, and I think I finally did get an answer as to which restaurant they went to. And then I asked well what did you eat? Just idle conversation and trying to find out what they ate, and they said breakfast. So I sat there and I looked at them and I said alright breakfast. This was 6:00 in the evening, fine. I mean, if you want breakfast that's fine. So I asked again, what did you eat? And I got breakfast. I said well I guess I'm not going to ask this question again. I never did find out what they really ate. It was just breakfast. I don't know what breakfast was.
TH2 1: One thing I notice is that you, Judy and Adrian, when you talk about Pam and the way she's difficult with you and brushes you off or tells you something that doesn't make sense or whatever, you join in laughter about it. At the same time I see Pam's eyes filling with tears like you are really upset about . . .
M 5: She does this all the time. She does get very upset.
TH2 2:  . . . the way they talk about you, or perhaps you are upset about other things.
F 7: I would think that the reason why we are laughing at it is because it's been going on for so long, for so many years, that at home we don't do this. We are trying to stay calm. I am trying to keep my temper down.
TH2 3: You are sort of laughing off tension then.
F 8: Tonight yes.
TH2 4: Same for you?
M 6: Yeah, I would say probably I didn't laugh afterwards, but I did say, well what did you have for breakfast, what did you eat? And there was still no answer.
F 9: Like today to get here. 4:00 I asked her. Pam it's 4:00. Time to take a shower. She is 30 years old. I shouldn't have to tell her this right? But I told her, Pam, it's 4:00. Pam take a shower. She doesn't get in the shower until 5:00, so she doesn't get out of there until, what was it, twenty to six. So this puts me behind. At 5:00 I was supposed to be taking my shower, not at 6:00. You have to tell her, and then she will put it off for as long as possible without doing stuff.  Now I got angry. I'm trying to hold my temper here. Because I do get angry, and I do yell, and I do throw a fit. I mean . . .
TH2 5: When you throw a fit you mean hits as well?
D 6: No,
F 10: Not any more. I . . .
TH2 6:  Hit the wall or something?
F 11: Bang the wall. I bang the table or get up and leave and totally leave for a while than to hit her anymore. I'm not saying I didn't do it when she was younger. Trying to get her attention to get things going, but she still wouldn't do it then. I found out that it wouldn't help when she was younger.
TH1 11: I noticed you seem to have tears in your eyes when your parents were laughing. When your dad started to talk about getting angry and how he was just controlling his anger, then you started to smile.
D 7: Because it used to hurt when he hit me, and when he jumps.
F 12: When I what?
D 8: When you jump.
F 13: When I jump?
D 9: You know how you jump on me with anger?
F 14: I don't jump on you with anger any longer. Well okay, okay I know what you're talking about. She is referring to when I really yell at her to get going.  Now I'm really angry again, and I'll yell at her, and I'll maybe say god damnit or something like that, get moving. You know. Now that's what she calls my jumping at her.
TH1 12: Is that what you mean, Pam?
F 15: I think that's what she means.
TH2 7: I thought she meant that you were jumping on her, and I can see you are a really big person. You've got a strong voice and probably pretty scary.
F 16: I try to use the voice more than anything.
TH2 8: Yeah but even though you look big and strong and powerful, at the beginning of the session here I heard you telling Pam that she should move and not sit in the middle, and I thought well maybe you learned that this last time or maybe you've been on this for a while.
F 17: No, I just, go ahead, I'm sorry.
TH2 9:  But you didn't want her to sit there, but she is sitting there I see.
F 18: Well, again, she's 30 years old. And I still think she should respect us, and if I said she should sit at the end, I think she should have gotten up and sat at the end because I wanted her closer to, last time we only had one gentleman sitting at that seat. So, I just thought that if she sat closer to the therapist or whatever, it might be a little bit easier for her. I don't know. But I'm just trying to use my own psychology, my own . . .
TH1 13: But that was your idea?
F 19: Right.
TH2 10: Do you have a reason to stay away from me, do you feel protected of them?
D 10: No, I just like sitting in the middle.
TH1 14: I thought Pam was wanting to sit in the middle between her parents. I  wondered if you were trying to have it so she wasn't between you and Judy.
F 20: Oh, no. Only that she would be closer to the therapist.
TH1 15: But Pam's idea was to come in the middle between your two parents.
D 11: Right.
TH1 16: What do you like about being in the middle.
D 12: Well, I just like sitting in the middle. That's my favorite thing.
TH1 17: And does that happen at home?
D 13: Yes. Especially at the dinner table. Dad's at the left, I'm right here, Mom's over there.
TH1 18: Does that make you feel like you have a secure place? Now when you smile about that it looks to me as though that makes you really happy.
D 14: Yes.
TH2 11: Even though they're mad.
D 15: Even though they're mad.
TH2 12: Or maybe because they're mad. I realize that doesn't quite make sense, but it is the case. They are both mad, and you're in the middle of them. There must be a reason it's better off in the middle if they're mad than off on your own somewhere where you don't have to hear them being mad at you.
TH1 19: You're thinking about it.
D 16: Yeah.
TH1 20: But what do you think?
D 17: I don't know. This is, I like sitting in the middle. I don't know why.  But I'm comfortable with it.
TH1 21: Have you been aware of that?
D 18: No.
M 7: She does sit in the chair in the middle with us both on each end.
F 21: I'm on one end and she's at the other end of the table, so she would be like in the middle.
TH1 22: Are there other kids in your family?
F 22: No.
TH1 23: Pam's it.
F 23: Pam's it.
TH2 13: Was that a decision that you just wanted one child, or did you . . .
M 8: She's adopted, so.
TH1 24: You looked upset or something as we asked about that.
F 24: Okay. I'll tell you why. We had a son.  He committed suicide ten years ago.
TH2 14: Oh.
F 25: So. Now she takes it very hard, but not as hard as I do.
TH1 25: Can you say more about it.
F 26: No.
TH2 15: He won't.
F 27: Came home from work. Found him in the bedroom. He blew his brains out. I don't know what else to say. It's no rhyme, no reason, no note, no nothing. Coroner called up that evening. I turned around and said please tell me he was on dope. Tell me what kind of dope he was on. Same questioning look in your eyes. Why would I want him to be on dope.
TH1 26: Well, you wanted a reason.
F 28: That's right. A reason. Give me a reason. There is still no reason. I cannot visit his grave. It's been ten years, over ten years. I cannot visit his grave. I cannot go there.
TH2 16: Because you are tortured that you don't know why.
F 29: I would assume so.
TH2 17: And you're angry at him for what he has done to you.
F 30: I would assume I am.
TH2 18: Look how he's left you hurting.
M 9: And I think that's part of her problem too.
TH1 27: Yeah.
F 31: It was going on before that. This has been going on before that.
M 10: Yeah, but I think a lot more is now.
TH1 28: Well things were going on with Pam before that.
F 32: Oh yes. Oh yes.
TH1 29: But let's stay with this.  Judy, what do you figure?
M 11: I just feel she's hurt because she doesn't have her brother to talk to and be with all the time.
TH1 30: Were you close to your brother, Pam? What was his name?
D 19: Victor.
TH1 31: I didn't hear.
D 20: Victor.
TH1 32: Tell me about Victor.
D 21: We were real close. We would confide in each other, and I was like, I have no one to talk to.
F 33: I told you you can always talk to us.
TH1 33: Is Victor older of younger than you?
D 22: He was younger by four years.
TH1 34: What was he like?
D 23: We would do so much together. So many things. That's why I sit in my room.
TH2 19: And is that where you and he would talk together?
TH2 20: Yeah.
F 34: Yeah, but you would sit in your room long before that, long before Victor had done that.
TH1 35: Well, it may have been a favorite place of hers then, but now it has a new meaning.
F 35: Yeah, I understand that part.
TH1 36: Is the room the place you feel Victor is for you?  I wonder if that's more important than the computer.
D 24: I don't know.
F 36: Well that wasn't the room he done it in. The room he done it in is the room she decided to go sleep in now. And before the computer she used to go and spend a lot of time just sitting on the bed and playing with her toys sitting on her bed. Now she does the same thing. She's got these little hand games, you know, she plays with that, or she will sit down and play solitaire for hours on end.
TH1 37: In her room?
F 37: In her room.
TH1 38: What are you thinking about when you are there?
D 25: I want to just, I just don't really think about anything. Just sit there.
TH1 39: Just sit there?
D 26: Well we have a dog, so . . .
F 38: We've always had a dog.
D 27: Yeah, but still.
F 39: We've had a dog since you were born.
TH1 40:  Well, let's hear what she's got to say about it. The dog means  something.
D 28: It does. You get to play with her. She sleeps in my room when it's time to go to bed. You know, the dog keeps me company now.
TH1 41: When you are really lonely for Victor.
F 40: I didn't want to really bring it up because, let me put it to you this way.  Pamela will tell you what you want to hear.
TH1 42: Meaning what?
F 41: Meaning that she is very smart.  When she sort of figured out, she'll sit there and just listen for a period of time, and then she will tell you what you want to hear to satisfy you. I know it sounds, you know, but she is that way. Now instead of telling you the truth, she will tell you what she thinks you want to hear which would appease you.
TH1 43: What would that be?
F 42: Well, just like now when she says about the dog.
D 29: No.
F 43: It's her dog. She brought the dog home as a pup. We said no dogs, but she brought it home. I told her to get rid of it. She didn't get rid of it. Well, what's it been four years now, and she still has the dog. She hasn't gotten rid of that dog. But uh
TH1 44: What are you thinking that she'd tell us that wouldn't really be true?
F 44: That she's, well I'm not going to say, not that she doesn't miss Vic, but that she thinks about him as much as she says she does.
TH1 45: You don't think she's thinking about Vic?
F 45: No, her mind is somewhere totally somewhere else. It's either on the computer playing games on the computer, or in her room playing the games, and that.
TH1 46: Well, let me interrupt you a little, because Judy, I was noticing that you look a lot like you were suffering as Pam was starting to talk about Victor.
M 12: Very much so.
TH-47  What can you say about it?
M 13: I can't talk.
TH1 48:  Is this true whenever you think about Victor?
M 14: Yeah. It's hard to talk about it. I remember good times it's alright.  I can't bring up the other things, problems, it's hard.
TH1 49: You can remember the good times and then there were some times with him that weren't so good that are really hard to talk about?
M 15: Well, you always have a kid that's, you know that's,  I mean he wasn't a bad kid. He was never a bad kid.
F 46: He was mischievous. He was as you would call him
M 16: He was a typical boy, that's all. I mean he was not a bad kid.
TH1 50: He could do stuff that was a little trouble. There was nothing that he would do really wrong.
M 17: He was really helpful around the house and stuff. He loved to cook, he loved to help clean house. He'd get on her case about cleaning up the house and stuff.
TH1 51: Gave her a hard time?
M 18: Oh, yeah. All the time, so, because I worked, and he knew that the housework had to be done before I got home, and dinner started, or table set, and if she wouldn't do it, he would get on her case about it, and the two of them would work together on doing things. But now she doesn't have him there to yell at her all the time to do this or do that, so . . .
TH1 52: So she gets you to yell at her.
M 19: Yeah. More of less, yeah. I think they were fairly close together, yeah. It was a great shock to all of us.
TH1 53: Pam, what do you . . .
D 31: I was fairly, pretty darn close.
TH1 54: Yeah?
D 32: Pretty close with him.
TH1 55: Did you feel close to Victor?
M 20: To him? Oh yeah. He was mama's little boy.
TH1 56: Was he adopted too?
M 21: Yeah.
TH1 57: How old was he when you adopted him?
M 22: He was just a baby. They were both babies. They were . . .
F 46: She was about two weeks old when we brought her home, and he was about a week old when he came home.
TH1 58: So, presumably, you hadn't been able to have children?
F 47: No.
TH1 59: How long had you been trying?
F 48: Eight years, at least.
M 23: About eight years or better.
TH1 60: Before Pam.
M 24: Well before Pam was maybe five or six years.
F 49: We had gone to doctors and everything else.
TH1 61: Sure. So then getting the kids was really important to you.
M 25: Oh yeah.
TH1 62: Because you'd already been, I assume, you'd been under strain about not being able to have children?
M 26: Well, I guess so. We wanted them, but not being able to, and she was out little Christmas baby. She was brought home on December 18th, so that was our Christmas present.
TH2 20: So Pam was like a very wonderful gift, and I imagine Vic was too four years later.
M 27: Yeah, he was born in January, so, a little late for Christmas, but very special.
TH1 63: How did Pam react when you presented her with Victor?
M 28: Oh, she loved him. She would help with him, feed him, hold him, and she was really pleased with him.
D 33: I didn't get angry. I was excited.
TH1 64: Now I'm wanting you to tell us some more about Victor because it sounds like you haven't talked very much about him.
F 50: No, we don't.
TH1 65: Has that been true ever since his death?
D&F; Yep.
TH1 66: You just don't talk about him.
F 51: Yeah. It's, well I guess you would say it's easier left alone. She used to go to the grave minimum of once a week. I don't know how often.
TH1 67: She is? Judy?
F 52: Judy. And I said I tried several times, tried on my own several times, and I just . . .
D 34: Can't do it.
F 53: Can't do it. My sister just passed away not too long ago, maybe . . .
M 29: A year.
F 54: It's been a year?
M 30: Yes.
F 55: Since Christine?
M 31: Year in February.
F 56: Time flies. But she was laid out, and of course, then naturally you just go visit the rest of the graves, and I got there by him, and to walk away and bust out crying. How can I say, I'm very angry.
TH1 68: You couldn't because . . .
F 57: Because I lost my best buddy.
TH1 69: Was he your best buddy?
F 58: Yeah. I considered him even though when he wouldn't do stuff I'd get angry at him and holler at him, and threaten him, and everything else, just like most fathers I guess do.
TH1 70: Did you hit him?
F 59: When he was younger. What you would call a correctional spanking, take him and whack him across the backside and raise him up off the ground a little bit, that type of thing, but nothing to injure him. Nothing to injure him.
TH2 21: What I notice about what you're saying is that you can talk a bit about Victor. You've talked a little bit about Victor, though it's hard for both of you. What you can't do it go to his grave together.
F 60: No, I can't. I tried . . .
TH2 22: You've tried alone.
F 61: I've tried with her.
TH2 23: And you've tried together. But you can't do it together.
F 62: I can't do it, I just can't do it period.
TH2 24: And I'm thinking that's probably really hard for you that you have to do it alone rather than have your husband with you.
M 32: I'd rather be alone.
TH2 25: At this point.
TH2 26: Well, what I'm thinking though is that the loss of Victor, that is something that you two share. It's a very deep pain following a very great gift. And I have the feeling that Pam sits between to prevent that loss being dealt with. She sort of partly fills in for Victor.
F 63: Well, she tried.
TH2 27: And partly she tries to be the opposite of Victor because, of course, she isn't Victor.
M 33: She tries to do a lot of things that he did.
TH2 28: Like what?
M 34: She'll go out and mow the grass and take the garbage out.
TH1 71: Those were his chores before?
D 35: Yeah, now I do them.
M 35: So, she does . . .
TH1 72: You're trying to be your father's buddy?
D 36: Yeah, in a way.
M 36: Yeah, she likes to go out with him a lot.  She doesn't care to go with me that often.
TH1 73: Was that true before Victor died?
M 37: Yeah, I think so.
D 37: No, no.
M 38: You used to go with me?
D 38: Yes.
F 64: Victor and I would go fishing, Victor and I would go hunting in the winter time. You know, it would be Vic and I. What do you call it, male bonding type thing.
TH1 74: Sure.
F 65: You know, and I guess maybe call it selfish. I don't know maybe I'm thinking that it's maybe it's me that's going a little goofy here or something because I lost, and I'll never be able to have what I did have with him. She tries. She used to go fishing with me quite a bit, then all of a sudden she stopped.
TH1 75: When was that?
F 66: I don't even remember. I don't remember when she stopped. I mean I haven't gone fishing in a long time either, so.
TH1 76: Did she go fishing with you after Vic died?
D 39: Yeah, a couple of times.
F 67: A couple of times, yeah.
D 40: Didn't change nothing darnit.
F 68: You never caught anything, you probably never could catch fish.
TH1 77: You can't catch them.
F 69: I can't catch them.
TH1 78: You just go.
F 70: I just go.
TH1 79: Could Vic catch fish.
F 71: No, not really.
D 41: Yeah, a lot better than you could!
F 72: I just like to go out to the lake and sit there and do what we call still fishing. Like the old bamboo pole but we got the fiberglass poles and just put them out there and sit out there by the water and let the sun hit you and stuff like that.
M 39: He just enjoys sitting there doing nothing.
F 73: Yeah, okay. I'm sitting there doing nothing.
M 40: And not catching anything either. I mean after an hour of not catching anything, I'm ready to go home.
F 74: An hour, fifteen minutes.
M 41: The fish aren't biting.  You're not going to sit there and wait for the fish to come to you.
TH1 80: Of course, for him that's a good day.
M 42: Oh, that's a terrific day for him. Yes, yes. He could go out thereat 6:00 in the morning and not come home until 6:00. Doing nothing.
TH1 81: Judy, when you go to the grave you want to be alone?
M 43: More or less.
TH1 82: What do you think about.
M 44: I just talk to him.
TH1 83: What about? What kinds of things do you have to say?
M 45: Just that I miss him, and how much I loved him.  And that's all. It's hard going there.
TH1 84: But you make yourself do it.
TH2 29: Do you feel in touch with him when you go? Do you feel he hears you or do you feel any comfort?
M 46: I hope he does. I don't know, it's hard out there.
TH2 30: And it sounds as if it's not getting any easier as the years go by.
M 47: I haven't gone as much. I was out there last week I guess. I guess for Easter I went out there. I didn't make it for his birthday, and I didn't make it for Christmas this year.
TH2 31: Too hard.
M 48: No it was just, I didn't get the time to get out there I guess. Things weren't just gelling together well. It didn't turn out.
TH1 85: Is it easier not to go, or do you feel bad if you don't go? Do you feel you miss him?
M 49: I think that I should have been there. Usually I take flowers for his birthday or for Christmas, I put a fresh flower out there. I guess I felt guilty this year, I just I don't . . .
TH1 86: It's a hard question, but did you feel guilty about anything about his death?
M 50: Maybe I didn't tell him I loved him after I got done talking to him that day.
TH1 87: The day he killed himself? Had you had a fight?
M 51: No it was just that we were supposed to go shopping, and I asked him, I had dinner on the stove, and I asked him to cook it, and I thought well, we were supposed to go to a Christmas party, and I was going to take him out that night maybe to buy a new pair of pants, maybe a sport jacket or something, I don't know. I didn't tell him that I was going to do this, and he had been asking about getting a pool table, and naturally, dad had said the pool tables are too big for the basement because our basement is finished and there is not enough room. And I says well maybe we could find something smaller, and I thought well, when I take him out shopping we will look even though dad said no. We will take a look and maybe we can change dad's mind. But I never said that to him. So maybe . . .
TH1 88: Maybe that had something to do with . . . it's on your mind as you think about it.
TH2 32: Well, then does that mean you're angry at dad as well. Maybe he set a limit that frustrated Victor.
M 52: No, I don't think. No. No it's just a combination I guess of things, and I know one night he said something to me, and I looked up at him, and I thought to myself gee you're so handsome and such a good kid, but I didn't say that to him out loud. But the thoughts were always there. Because he was taller than me, and he always teased me about being taller than me when he got that tall.
TH1 89: How old was he?
M 53: He was going on 17. He would have been 17.
TH1 90: Do you have any explanation for his killing himself.
M 54: No. I have no idea.
TH2 33: Well, she's been saying that she thinks that if he had known more clearly how much she loved him, maybe he wouldn't have. That's what you're tormenting yourself with I think.
M 55: I think he knew I loved him, but I didn't tell him that day.
TH1 91: More love would have kept him alive.
TH2 34: Saying it more.
F 75: The night before I was downstairs watching television. He came home, came downstairs and sat downstairs with me for about half an hour. Then he went upstairs and said goodnight dad, I love you. I says goodnight, I love you too. But it's one of the things that he very rarely ever said to me. That I love you dad. And it struck me real funny. But I didn't think nothing of it, you know. So, I just let it go, and the next day, of course, I got up before he got up, and I was gone to work, and when I came home, I paid no attention to where he was and what was going on, and then she called, and so I went and I looked for him because she said that he was supposed to have dinner on the table or something or on the stove or, you know, getting it ready. So, I went looking for him, and I tried the bedroom door, and he had the bedroom door locked because my father was living with us at that time, and he was about 85: then, and so I finally got the door opened, and when I seen it, the first thing I did was call the paramedics.
TH2 35: You're the one that found him?
F 76: Yeah.
TH2 36: That must have been a horrible site.
F 77: And the first thing I did was call the paramedics, and then I moved everything out of the way so that they could come in with the gurney, and make sure my father understood to sit on the chair and not move. Because at 85, he was sort of senile, you know. And I wanted to make sure, and then I turned around and called her and told her to drop everything, drop what you're doing. Just grab your purse and come home immediately. And she did.
TH2 37: But you didn't know why.
F 78: No, I wouldn't tell her why on the phone. I wouldn't tell her why on the phone. And by the time she came home. Her boss called, and I told her, and it was only minutes later that she came home.
TH2 38:  And where were you then, Pam?
D 42: I was at . . .
F 79: She was at school.
D 43: I was in school.
F 80: She was in college.
TH2 39:  Away or commuting.
M 56: No, she was just at the school in the neighborhood.
D 44: At that time it was Thornton Community, and I was at, at that time a student worker, going to school and then going to work right there. Didn't have to go outside. I was on my way home, and I'm wondering, what is an ambulance doing in front of my house? I don't know. So, I get in the house. No, I didn't get in the house.
F 81: No, I stopped you.
D 45: But I seen my buddy Mark, and then all of a sudden I see them pulling Victor out.
TH2 40: So you saw it before you knew, before you'd been told. Wow.
M 57: We have a little light in our bedroom that goes on automatically, so she says that Victor's way of coming back at us. He hasn't come back lately though, has he? The light is gone every evening.
F 82: It doesn't go on by itself.
D 46: It was every night at the same time.
M 58: It hasn't done it lately though.
TH1 92: Well that's a theme that I hear from you, Judy, that it wasn't as easy for you to find Victor lately and you couldn't get to his grave as easily. Is there a sense that it's harder to hold onto him, to hold onto the memory?
M 59: What of him?
TH1 93: Yeah.
M 60: No, he'll always be there.
TH1 94: What I'm hearing is that although you never talk about it, almost never.
F 83: Well, the other day, a month or so ago I was dusting off the albums and started going through them, and I told her I went through them, and they had
Victor's picture, and I cried like a baby.
M 61: Oh, we'll talk about it at a family affair or something, and if something comes up it will be casually mentioned, you know, what he did or things that happened, or somebody says something, but most of the kids know. Nieces and nephews know that it isn't brought up as often. You know, once in a while conversation might come up on him.
TH1 95: Well, what I was thinking is that it seems to me that the three of you as a family are doing something that's a way of keeping Victor with you by having Pam stay at home, be in the middle between you.
TH2 41: Fill the spot.
TH1 96: Fill the spot, be in the bedroom, and that in a way, it has the three of you stuck as though you have to be stuck in this pattern, fighting with Pam for instance, to replace Victor, as though you'd lose him if you changed anything.
F 84: I don't feel that. I don't' feel that because she was in the house. There are certain things that when you live in a house you have to do. You have to clean the house. You have to cook, you have to eat, you have to do things. There are things that have to be done in a house, and if I don't get on her to do them, she won't do them. She won't do anything. Today I told her absolutely nothing until 4:00 to take a shower.
TH2 42: But see those things you mention, the cooking, and the cleaning, those are things that Victor did.
F 85: Yeah, but so did she. They done 'em together.
TH2 43: It's like partly she's doing things to stay close to Victor.  Like listening, being in the room, staying where he was, and partly she's doing things to be the opposite of Victor, to not please you, to not clean, to not, and I'm thinking, Pam, you must be in a struggle of wanting to join Victor and knowing that you must not do so, otherwise you'll lose your life.
D 47: Yeah.
TH2 44: So, it seems to me that you stick right close between your parents pretty much to stay alive. To meet their needs, to have someone there take Victor's place, and to fight against it by being obnoxious or dependant, or unhelpful around the house, to be different.
D 48: That's what I want to change though. I want to start . . .
TH2 45: You want to change that?
D 49: I want to change in a positive way.  More cooperation at home. I'm trying.
F 86: She's usually very negative.
TH1 97: But you say you're trying Pam?
D 50: Yep.
TH2 46: As a way of being yourself, to find out who yourself is.
TH1 98: I was thinking, I just wanted to add to what you're saying that it's not  just to stay alive, although that's part of it is it Pam, to keep yourself alive?
D 51: Well, I won't do what he did?
TH2 47: You'd like to kill yourself, too?
D 52: No way!
F 87: No she said she won't do that.
M 62: She wouldn't do that.
TH2 48: You would not do that.
M 63: She has always said that, I mean, from day one, she has always said that.
TH1 99: Yeah, but I'm saying between your parents is like it keeps the love alive. Do you think so? So then you really couldn't afford to leave the spot between  them because it's like the love wouldn't be there.
D 53: Well, it's just, I just want to change my attitude, my anger.
TH1 100: What do you think you are so mad about?
D 54: Oh, I go to work, I come home, he is sitting in front of the TV, watching TV. I'd like a break once in a while from cleaning house. Why can't he do it at least for one day?
TH1 101: If he did it, then he'd be like Victor helping you out.
D 55: Yeah.
F 88: At least one day.  Why don't I do it.
TH1 102: But I don't think you are hearing what she's saying.  I don't think it's about whether you're lazy or not.
F 89: I understand that.
TH1 103: Well, let me say it.  She'd like you to join her like Victor used to.
F 00: And if you ask her, the day I usually clean house is usually on Wednesdays. That's the day I usually clean the house. Now I would ask her, she's off on Wednesdays. So I would ask her can you vacuum the house and vacuum the floors. Now she usually doesn't get up until about maybe 10:30, 11:00.
D 56: No.
F 01: Yeah, what time did you get up today?
D 57: Quarter to.
F 02: Quarter to what?
D 58: Ten.
F 03: Oh. Excuse me. Call me a liar for forty-five minutes.
TH1 104: I think something's happening right now that I'd like to talk about.
F 04: Go ahead.
TH1 105: I think you're about to get mad at her.
F 05: Yes I am. Yeah, pretty close.
TH1 106: Now, you can usually find things to get mad at her about.
F 06: Oh, I can always find something to get mad at her about, because she doesn't listen, she won't . . .
TH1 107: But wait a minute.  Because we are in very sore territory.
F 07: Oh no.
TH1 108: No think about it.  You're talking about . . .
F 08: No, no. You think because of Victor, because of the territory that we are talking about is because of Victor. No.
TH1 109: Well, it's a way out.
F 09: No, I don't think so.
TH1 110: Well, let me say it and then you can . . .
F 100: Say it.
TH1 111: I think that this is so painful that it's easier to get in a scrap with Pam because she gives you lots of opportunity, than to stay with the pain of this loss, and Pam has actually over the last few minutes been talking a lot about trying to do things that would move beyond the stuck place.
TH2 49: Now, I don't agree with you David. I don't think this is about Victor.
It's about Pam, and Pam's saying I want to change, I want to improve my attitude, and I'm saying to myself, well, if you were successful, the next thing you would do would leave the house. You'd be living in a group home. You'd live with other young people, and you wouldn't be with your parents. And I think that would be another loss for you even though you might wish for it. It would be a loss again to get over, and for you Pam, you wouldn't have your parents there helping you to feel safe.
D 59: Right.
TH2 50: And I think as soon as you go live in a group home with other young people, it raises the question might you meet someone, might you have a child of your own. That's got to be something that you're quite afraid of.
D 60: No. I wouldn't live in a group home. I would (?).
TH1 112: You want to stay there.
D 61: Yep.
TH1 113: You feel you want to stay with them and be their child forever and never have a child of your own.
D 62: Well, I will eventually. But it's going to take time.
F 101: The problem is you don't have much more time Pamela.
TH1 114: Well, this means Pam, that you can't grow up, have a sexual life of your own. You can't have one if you're at home in your room with a computer.
D 63: I don't know. It's just, I don't know.
TH1 115: And you feel that your parents need you to be their child at home.
D 64: They need someone at home.
F 102: Why?
D 65: I don't know.
F 103: Why do I need anybody at home? Other than your mother.
D 66: Well, you need me too.
F 104: Why?
D 67: I don't know.
M 64: He's teasing.
F 105: Why?
D 68: Someone to pick on.
F 106: I wouldn't have to say Pam get me a can of pop right?
D 69: Pick on me.
M 65: She does go out. She goes out every night.
F 107: And I'm putting a stop to that. Because the work is not getting done.
M 66: But it's not that she stays home every night. She goes out.
TH1 116: What do you think?
TH2 51: Well, it seems to me that we are probably nearing the end of our time.
TH1 117: We have a few more minutes.
TH2 52: A few more?
TH1 118: Well, I think that the three of you just got, you seem to get past the pain and kind of began joking together in a very friendly, loving way.
F 108: I usually joke around. I usually joke with her.
TH1 119: I think what Pam was saying did relieve a lot of pain when she said you need her. She's going to be there, even though part of you says, Pam you got to have a lot of your own. You don't have so much more time to have a child.
F 109: I tell her that all the time.
TH1 120: But even though when she says no I'm going to stay home and be your child, I think it relaxes the pain, and I think unless you could together, all three of you, mourn Victor who is painfully no longer here, so that would mean when Pam had a life of her own, it would be just the two of you, and it might mean you would even miss him more again.
TH2 53: Because you would be back to where you were before you got him. Or Pam.
TH1 121: Unless you could do that grieving and crying and talking, Pam won't feel free to go ahead and have a life of her own. Because right now she's decided that she is going to be the child who stays home to take care of her parents.
F 110: I'd rather her be the child going out and give me grandchildren.
TH1 122: I can hear that a big part of you would like that, but I think among the three of you it's such a relief when she says don't worry, I'll stay, that everybody relaxes, and you fall into the old pattern. Even though it's a problem, it's such a relief it takes over.
TH1 123: You're crying.
M 67: We keep telling her goodbye.
TH1 124: And she keeps saying hello.
F 111: We tell her don't let the door hit ya.
M 68: But no. I don't know.  I just want her to have a good future, you know.  She doesn't have to be with us.
F 112: And from what we can see, she can't handle herself. She can't do things for herself. She won't do things for herself to show us that she can handle it herself.
TH1 125: Well, because as long as . . .
F 113: And this is where I am getting . . .
TH2 54: You have a job don't you Pam? Full time job?
D 70: No part time.
TH1 126: What's your job?
D 71: I work in a grocery store. Stock.
TH1 127: See I wonder if as long as you look like you couldn't manage on your own, then your parents don't have to feel guilty about you're staying home, and they are taking care of you while you are taking care of them. And there is kind of an idea that the three of you share, well, she needs it after all, so it's okay. But it may be that the reason that she acts as though she can't take care of herself so much is that if she grew up and could take care of herself, then she would have to leave and leave you so terribly alone and feel so lonely yourself Pam.
D 72: I really don't want to move out. In a way I do, and in a way I don't.
F 114: Because you won't have dad cooking dinner for you no more.
D 73: No.
M 69: Cooking breakfast.
TH1 128: Which he likes to do I guess.
M 70: He gets up every morning and he cooks breakfast for her, every single morning.
TH1 129: Well, where else is she going to get that.
M 71: And he gets her lunch ready and shoves her out the door.
TH1 130: Well, I think all three of you are very caring about each other and really devoted which is important. The only problem part of this is that there is a way in which you all agree Pam isn't growing up and moving toward a life of her own, and to do that you would have to be able to take the loss of Pam as the person who fills both spots, Victor's and her own, and you would have to take that loss too in order to have something else.
M 72: We leave her alone on weekends. We go away on weekends because we have a place in Michigan, so we go up there, and she's left alone to do her chores and I should say she does do her chores when we are away.
TH2 55: Well, that's really something to think about.
TH1 131: That she's able to do it.  And her reason for not doing it is the kind of thing we've been taking.
M 73: It may take her forever to do them, but she does get them done.
TH1 132: Well I think this is what we'd want to say to you at the end of this time together. That Victor's loss was such a great loss for all three of you that in these ways it's hard to get past it, but for Pam to get on with her life, and for the two of you to get on with yours, being a couple again, you'd have to be able to talk about this loss, to cry about it together, maybe to get where you could visit the grave.
F 115: I don't know, I don't want to say yes or no to it.
TH1 133: I'm not trying to get you to do something tonight.
F 116: No, no, I mean. Maybe in another ten years, I don't know. Maybe next year, maybe tomorrow. I don't know.
TH1 134: Of course, as you say, Pam doesn't have that much time.
TH1 135: Well, okay.  Well, we've given you some things to think about, and you have given us some things to think about. We are very grateful that you came in to talk with us.
F 117: Thank you.
<b>Treatment Plan for this Family</b>
Jill Scharff
In a subsequent session, we would not be surprised to find some retreat from the intensity of this session. We might see some lateness, confusion about the time of the meeting, or just a general opaqueness. We would need to interpret the family's reluctance to re-enter the emotional field and continue with their grief work and restructuring.
Since I was the one drawn to notice Adrian's tattoos, I would want to learn what they represent. Is 'Rita' a memento of a previous relationship with a woman, and if so what did she mean to Adrian? How does, a tattoo list of Adrian's previous women affect Judy and Pam? David would want to renew his suggestion that Adrian, Judy, and Pam make a visit to the grave and would help them toward that goal. If they had already done so, he would want to review their experience thoroughly. We would also ask whether any of them had had a dream, because working on a family group's associations to an individual's dream gives us another way of reaching a deeper level of understanding.
We would ask for more history of Adrian and Judy's families of origin, but not in a systematic form of enquiry. We tend to wait for a moment when a piece of family history comes close to consciousness in association to an interaction that is occurring with feeling in the her-and-now. That way the relevance of the family history is clear, as the old experience penetrates the current relationship.
The main goal in work with Adrian, Judy, and Pam is to help them resolve their highly ambivalent adherence to living in an oedipal triangle as a defense against differentiation which has become associated with loneliness, loss, and danger. To help Pam become more separate, we need to ask more about her as a single woman. How does she get along at work and in her social life? Can Adrian, Judy, and Pam imagine a future? We would also need to attend to Adrian and Judy's couple relationship by asking them about their shared activities. After some work in the family setting, we would hope to arrange a couple session without Pam present so that Adrian and Judy could focus on their intimate life, but we would not expect them to be comfortable with this suggestion yet.
Finally we need to continue talking about Victor. What was he like at different ages? What kind of friends did he have? We bring to the family our capacity for tolerating pain. This is what will help Adrian, Judy, and Pam to face their experience and recall their lost child. Our aim is to retrieve old memories of Victor in childhood as well at the time of his suicide until Adrian, Judy, and Pam become less traumatized by their memories of shocking loss, more accustomed to its impact, and even comforted, rather than anguished by early memories. This detoxifying experience frees them to discover a new reality and moves them as a group to a new developmental stage with differentiated roles appropriate to their family as it exists now in its current membership and at their present individual ages.
But our main goal at this opening stage of treatment is to secure the next session. We want to make sure that the family will have a place to bring the pain of loss and a therapeutic relationship in which to trust. Adrian, Judy, and Pam need to have therapy until their mourning no longer interferes with their satisfactory progression through the life cycle.
<b>To Learn More About Object Relations Family Therapy</b>
BOOKS
Scharff, J.S. &amp; Scharff, D. E., (1998). <u>Object relations individual therapy</u>. NY: Aronson.
Scharff, J.S. &amp; Scharff, D. E., (1996). <u>The primer of object relations therapy</u>. NY: Aronson.
Scharff, D. E., (1996). <u>Object relations theory and paractice: An introduction</u>. NY: Aronson.
Scharff, J.S. &amp; Scharff, D. E., (1995). <u>Object relations couple therapy</u>. NY: Aronson.
Scharff D. E., (1992). <u>Refinding the Object and Reclaiming the Self</u>. NY: Aronson.
Scharff, J.S. &amp; Scharff, D. E., (1991). <u>Object relations family therapy</u>. NY: Aronson.
TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES
The <i>International Institute of Object Relations Therapy</i>, 6612 Kennedy Drive, Chevy Chase, MD 20815-6504, offers several training programs, including a summer institute and weekend courses.
