Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So, I've been, you know, waiting to ask the question I've been wanting to know for a long time, but I haven't really wanted to do it because I've decided - at - at - for some reason, I decided before that that I was asking preemptively, you know, too much. Like - I'm that kind of person who immediately likes to be involved and know everything.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What the hell is wrong with me? Like what is my diagnosis?
(Laughter)
CLIENT: It's so stupid, but I want to know what's like, you know?
THERAPIST: What's going on?
CLIENT: Yeah. Other than just, you know, living a really fucked up life, which does - I'm sure doesn't actually have a DSM code.
THERAPIST: I have not yet seen the DSM code for that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um. Let's see. I - I mean DSM wise, I have you diagnosed as depressed.
CLIENT: I like having names for what's wrong with me because it makes it easier for me to understand.
THERAPIST: Sure. Sure. Yeah, I think that's true, but it's not very deep.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:01:09]
THERAPIST: I think ... sort of more descriptively ... I think of a few things. One is that ... it seems to me you are somewhere in the process of mourning some pretty major losses in your life to do with what you imagined for your career, to do with what you imagined for your family life, to do with things you imagined for your relationship, and I guess the other one would be just to do with like your health and mobility and wellbeing. That way I'm in - I think, you know, there is some good news in each of those categories it seems to me. [00:02:37] I mean there are things that you feel happy about with all of those things, but there's also a lot you've had to give up that you had no plans to give up. (Pause) So, I think you're really, really sort of sad and grieving in certain ways, and I haven't seen it yet, but it's generally true that people often get angry about losing things. So, I think that's part of it. [00:03:29] I think complicating your grieving those losses are things - I have in mind stuff - like things we've touched on about your personality that make that difficult, such as wanting to be positive even when you're really not feeling it, or wanting to focus on and take care of other people when you - you know, to the exclusion of sometimes paying attention to your own feelings or needs. Things like that. I guess also the other one I'd throw into that category would be, and you're clearly not the only one with this, but I think you have it, you know, particular discomfort with being helpless and not in control of a lot of this. [00:04:42]
CLIENT: Doc, I just need to -
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: - chair - I thought it was your chair or something. I'll run in the park later.
THERAPIST: Okay. Right. So - does that - I guess the other thing I would throw in there not in terms of I guess I'd call those sort of personality factors or like parts of your personality.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's like big stuff to be grieved, just stuff in your personality that complicates that somewhat. I mean everybody's got things that complicate grieving, but these usually I think are some of things that do for you. And then there's also just like living with chronic pain, which obviously is pretty strongly associated with depression, and -
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I had mentioned to you that I have a - I've had a bonetologist (ph) who - she's like, "You're not depressed, but I'm putting you on Azarius because chronic pain, you know? [00:05:44]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it didn't really work out with me, but it was very weird to be told with a cocktail (inaudible at 00:05:49) Azarius and with that too. But - so, that doesn't surprise me at all, the whole.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And that one - that one in particular, the chronic pain, ... there's probably less I can do to help you with that. I mean I'm happy to talk about it, hear about it, do whatever I can that's helpful, but -
CLIENT: There's nothing that can be done.
THERAPIST: - this kind of therapy ... it - yeah, there's - there's not a whole - I mean, you know, sometimes when they get - when you go to -
CLIENT: To be honest -
THERAPIST: - vander to get an adjust or whatever. [00:06:34]
CLIENT: - most of the - having been treated emotionally for chronic pain in the past, the behaviors that you were describing as being kind of problematic are actually what they - what was sort of taught to me for doing that. Like, you know, sure, you don't feel great, but go outside. Like, you know what I mean? Like putting -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: - like that wasn't the kind of -
THERAPIST: Put your face on and stay positive and stay active.
CLIENT: - good day, son, and stay positive. Yeah, you know, think about the - think about the positive things. Think about all the ways that this - this disease has made you for the better. So, I think that actually going in and doing any more treatment for that actually probably would be a problem for the other, you know what I mean? I think that that's -
THERAPIST: The cause. Yeah.
CLIENT: I - I - Although that wasn't my nature in general, having done some things for the chronic pain, I think that that actually was hindering the rest of it.
THERAPIST: I follow.
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah. The other stuff I've heard about for that kind of thing is, you know, the relaxation and - [00:07:29]
CLIENT: You get a lot of affirmations talking about all of the things that you can do now that you have chronic pain. Like, you know, constantly being the focus. You know, sure you can't do it, go on outside, give your - make yourself do it for five minutes. If - even if you're unhappy, smile 'cause supposedly, chemically, you're ... And we're just like, these were all the things that I think that in certain ways, they might be great for others' situations. But I think it's impeding my ability to get past along other stuff as well. So - but yeah, a lot of relaxation stuff too, but I'm so damn type A that it's never really worked. So ... [00:08:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah, I think if I go out to clear all of the actions with the other stuff that the - loss and grief. Yeah. And I think it - it comes up no, we don't talk about it in those terms. I think kind of implicitly that's most or that's much of what we are talking about. Like, you know, on Tuesday, we were talking about your remembering what it was like when you were in college and how differently you felt about yourself, about your future. [00:09:04]
CLIENT: I think that's part of the reason why the problem that I've had with my husband, and then - I didn't actually find out about his addiction until we were married for quite a long time actually. But his family - like the reason why it was so hard for me was because I'd really truly believed that there is nothing that a good bit of hard work can't solve. You know, an earnest life can't solve. And so I just - it was such a completely different from everything that I knew. Now mind you, I wasn't easily like the most popular kid in school. Not even close in high school. And I went to being like one of the most - you know, one of the most recognized people on campus, which was sort of a weird phenomenal I was grateful for. I didn't actually think it was going to be like that forever. I wasn't mourning that I wasn't getting phone calls about drinking anymore. But, which - and it makes me sound like I was very much party oriented. I really wasn't. It's just that those things are memorable as opposed to talking about all the times I studied.
THERAPIST: Sure. Well, in - in -
CLIENT: And it - it sounds weird, but you know, it's like - because of the fact that it happened so infrequently, it is memorable, but also because of the fact that because we were all a bunch of dorks that almost always had to have a different spin on it. It wasn't like just going to a bar. [00:10:15]
THERAPIST: I mean I've - I've certainly heard a number of people who had gone to Havard, which I (crosstalk at 00:10:24) cause it's closer who say like, you know, socially - socially, things maybe were okay in high school or not so good, but then they went to a place where they were surrounded by other researchers or -
CLIENT: Other -
THERAPIST: - whatever -
CLIENT: - people who -
THERAPIST: - people with all sorts of -
CLIENT: - with similar mindsets. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And it was this really wonderful.
CLIENT: Yeah. It really - I just bloomed there, you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And, the big thing though was is that, you know, I was thinking about this after we had left. I'm like, "My God, it sounds like I was a binge drinker or something." It was like -
THERAPIST: Oh, no.
CLIENT: - oh, not really. No. But I'm in my own head thinking, "My God," but no, just it's because of the fact that it was so silly, most of the stuff was so bizarre, and there were so many strange adventures that they - they seemed so memorable. And the aggregate of all of them, it sounds like I had like some sort of strange alcoholic problem back then.
THERAPIST: Oh, and it didn't come across -
CLIENT: No, in my own head.
THERAPIST: It had to. Yeah.
CLIENT: In my own head, it sounded like, "Oh, my God!" And like no, actually it really wasn't that much.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's just that not too many people like do like the kind of things that we did. [00:11:26]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so - and so that was sort of - it was just very memorable at - at that. The - the thing that's actually really funny about the drinking thing is I'm very shocked to find out as much as there was that happened at Brown, it was not really something they really encouraged especially. In fact, you know, I had a lot - I had a very strong tie with a fraternity. There - it's very different now, but in 1995, I was one of three women in the department. Now it's almost half-and-half.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: So yeah.
THERAPIST: I remember you taking computer science with -
CLIENT: Music.
THERAPIST: - (Crosstalk at 00:12:04). You and Double E. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, Double E's - they're like - they're more like 60/40 now.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, at least. When I was there just two weeks ago, -
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I hear you.
CLIENT: - which is interesting. But because of that, although there were worries on campus, most of the - the - and I knew a lot of people in them, a lot of them were not of the same, and they - they weren't from the same background. [00:12:24]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So - but there was certain armory positions in this - in fraternities in schools like this that are even more so than they are at other places where they'll often have little sister roles, but they're very different. This is like, you don't date the little sister. That's like considered like incest kind of thing there.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: They actually - like you don't date the little sister. Yeah. That kind of thing. Yeah. You know, when Mike wanted to marry me, he had to get permission from like people my - you know, in my fraternity.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So it's very - it's very different than a traditional sorority little sis - fraternity little sister, which is usually someone that's dating somebody in the house or -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - someone. It - it - it's usually - this is a very different thing. Well, so I was - I was - I was involved in a lot of these things were sort of part and parcel related to that, so much that even my husband, who was - who was not a member, to this day when we are on campus, they're - they're introducing him as their brother-in-law, -
(Laughter)
CLIENT: - which is really sweet.
THERAPIST: That's cute.
CLIENT: But, you know, it - it really is a very different culture then. And I spent my summers living there and all kinds of stuff like that. It is very different than your usual college, being a girl surrounded by men kind of thing. [00:13:40]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: 'Cause of the fact that it just - it wasn't - it - it - it - the - the nature of the field was that way. It wasn't - that's just the way it was. There wasn't that many women. So - but it isn't like - it - the - the - it's not like I'm so much wishing that I could still do those things as much, as much as the fact that I mourn the fact that I used to be very confident in who I am and I let a very small group of people, who I rarely see, regularly invade my life, you know, and make me feel like I need to be ashamed of like, you know, doing well at something, or being sick with something, or you know what I mean? Like anything involving me, I should really like - I would like to like - from the beginning, erase my existence. How in the world that happened so fast and how it - it's still, when I think about it - it's - I mean I - I have a lot of very, very painful negative feelings, a lot of panic feelings related to this, and it really bothers me that I was able to let somebody that quickly do this to me. You know? And because of that, I've been - some people in my life who - this is the way that they are, they can see people's weaknesses and they figure, you know, they - there are certain people that - they're just - they like to figure out how to get in - get in and bother somebody and freak them out, and therefore, they just sort of abuse them. I've had bosses like that. But, I mean, I went through - [00:15:22]
THERAPIST: How were they able to do it? In other words, what weaknesses of yours were they preying on? I mean I - I have the impression that like while you were in college, you would've been a harder target.
CLIENT: Very hard target to be dealt with. My self-doubt that happens in that, they would find that self-doubt and sort of exploit it.
THERAPIST: In what were you - in what ways were you doubting yourself?
CLIENT: (Snicker). Before I - like, for example, when - when I had positions where I was - actively had - you know, supervising people, I just didn't feel like I had the command skills to - to do it anymore. I would have a lot of self-doubt over, "Okay, should I do this? Should I - [00:16:20]
THERAPIST: Was it like defense-type stuff?
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: Were you in like defense at all?
CLIENT: No. No, no, no. This was like later on at Microsoft.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: Because I had established the relationship at HLS early - early on, I didn't have as much trouble. I had - actually, I was kind of bulletproof at that point because of, you know, being used to that - that - (sigh) I'll explain this. I had somebody trying to tease me when I was at HLS, and I didn't put up with it at all actually. I had a supervisor who was pissed that I was getting this much attention, ended up pulling me from somebody else's project to work under him so he could break me, and boy, I was not letting him do that. He would not let me use pronouns when speaking to him. That kind of psychological is fucked up.
THERAPIST: Craziness. Yeah. That's craziness.
CLIENT: Yes. He would also like - he - he did all kinds of things. Like he would treat me like - he would try to break me speaking so quickly. He - I don't know if he just read a book on how to fuck people over, but he - he - I mean he went out of his way. He'd yank me from one department to another under him -
THERAPIST: (Crosstalk at 00:17:35). That's awful.
CLIENT: - so he could do this, and I was just like I'm having none of this.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know? [00:17:41]
THERAPIST: What happened? What else really happened?
CLIENT: Really? I said, you know, it's like okay, so we're gonna play the game of like, you know, if - if there's no pronouns, well, what I'd like because you find that I use - he found that I used them too loosely and it wasn't really - when I - when I was speaking about it, -
THERAPIST: I follow.
CLIENT: - he found that I wasn't -
THERAPIST: Are you going to get in trouble for pulling references or something?
CLIENT: - being specific enough. I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: Are you going to get in trouble for pulling references or something?
CLIENT: That's my client.
THERAPIST: Right. Sounds like it was bullshit.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I said, "Okay. Well, I'm going to say that, you know, the - quite frankly, the way that we use the word component is like a pronoun because a component can be a piece of software. A component - in our own discipline of this - a component can be lizard - literally a screw. A component can be this. A component can be that. Can we - can we define right now that in our discussions between the two of us that we're going to - we're - we're - I basically had a whole bunch of things that I said quite frankly, we're using them like a pronoun. And, you know, I just fought back. [00:18:40]
THERAPIST: What was the outcome ultimately like?
CLIENT: Basically, I ended up going with somebody else.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Working on a different project and pulled over to something else. But -
THERAPIST: Did you feel like victorious or at least an image?
CLIENT: Yeah. Hell, yeah. A lot of senior management saw this happening and saw that I, you know, I played the game for about a week and said, Screw this," because I'm going to give people the benefit of the doubt. But no. You know? He had a lot of disturbing like things and I didn't believe in this. But the thing is I went next - by doing it, I kill him at his own game. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:19:30]
CLIENT: And so ... by that happening at HLS, you know, that really did not - that really made it such that I didn't really have to worry about him ever picking on me ever again. I had a lot of people who were very - at first, wanting to know like what exactly I was all about and why in the world they were making such a big fuss over this girl, this young girl, you know, who - like from - from the north who talks too fast and wears high heels at the manufacturing facilities. You know? And - and I was just like, "That good. So sure, test me. Whatever." Even though I didn't, but I knew that I could - I knew that given a weekend, and, you know, some study time I could, so it didn't matter. So it was the same as actually having it, having the capability, and so ... yeah, but it - it - it ... [00:20:31]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you were a total bad ass.
CLIENT: I was a bad ass. The thing is that now, I don't pick up on that kind of stuff as fast. You know? I sometimes will - I don't have this problem right now at my job, thank goodness, but back in Cincinnati, I had - I had a boss that basically more or less, you know, would say these really horrid things to me on a regular basis. And more or less equated me with - like an idiot savant, and because of it being so painful and him picking up on how to push my buttons and having other - and teaching other people to do it too, which what pissed me off even more is that he said, "Well, you have no command skills." I'm like, "Well, being the way that you treat me around other," I didn't say this, but I thought in my head, "The way you treat me around other, like people who are under me, no wonder I have none because they see that you don't believe in me. Not necessarily respect me in terms of like, you know, but the way that you see this - [00:21:45]
THERAPIST: It's like he actively undermined you (inaudible at 00:21:46).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So they see that, and then monkey see, monkey do, so, you know, of course it's going to be a problem, so.... And usually it's women that - that do it to me. This particular guy was like that in general, like to this -
(Audio briefly shuts off and then on.)
THERAPIST: So when - when did you switch to Microsoft?
CLIENT: In 2004, but I was ... I already had trouble. It just wasn't as obvious 'cause I was doing mostly consulting and other things like that. I was working at HLS for a long time, but around ninety, just after we got married, maybe 2000ish, I stopped working with them over that incident. So, there was a gap where I was doing a lot of consulting, and that wasn't nearly as, you know, cut and - that - that wasn't really as cut and dry. [00:22:47] I - if someone gave me a hard time, well, you know, you got to find somebody else. There's something about asking for a couple hundred bucks an hour that argument - argumently commands respect. And so - but even when this whole thing was falling apart at, you know, because of the fact that early, early on, well, before this whole thing with Mike's family was starting to destroy me, I already established myself as - as - as like someone you don't screw with at HLS. Like I will back you to the hilt, but don't screw me over kind of thing. When I started falling apart, it wasn't as obvious to everybody else at work. You know? They just thought it was wedding jitters, you know what I mean? They thought that - I was telecommunicating for a lot of it. I was in Cincinnati and, you know, they're down in Miami, but a lot of them just thought of it as like life teen stuff, not necessarily emotional teen stuff. And at teleconferences, they can't see that you're not making a lot of eye contact anymore or, you know, that kind of stuff. [00:23:58]
THERAPIST: And so that stuff was going on like 2000 - when did you get married?
CLIENT: In 1999. So that started around in 1997 through 19 - 2002ish is all the really, really, really big drama, so ... more drama came, but that was the, you know. 'Cause we were living in Miami for part of that, so ...
THERAPIST: Right. And when did you have to stop working there, was that?
CLIENT: In 2000, right around.
THERAPIST: Okay, so you were able to consult after that?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then why did you switch from doing consulting?
CLIENT: To working at Microsoft?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I honestly thought I was just gonna do nights and weekends just for fun. For, you know, like a - a - and then, I found out that they were doing this program that was very secretive at the time, where they were going to be doing training, you know, this whole concept of that, and I got sucked in 'cause I really believed in it. And so I started just doing more and more of it. Plus, quite frankly, the consulting world of what I was doing was getting to be exhausting, so - and I was starting to get sicker. [00:25:14]
THERAPIST: I see. So it was harder to keep up the pace you kept up -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - partly because of the work and partly for your health or was it your health?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So ... also consulting is so like erratic, and so, at the time, it was just so, you know, there would be periods of time that I literally didn't have to have the sleep, and there were periods of time where I had no money at all, you know, and I had no contracts. So it - it was a pain. Plus, I saw the economy going south and I thought to myself, you know, that's going to become a lot harder, so. Also, the talents that I had, the infrastructure was coming in such that they didn't necessarily have to pay for consultants to do it. [00:26:11]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: There are a lot of other good ways of becoming certified and that kind of stuff, so ... The ... there just was a lot of stuff going on and I just was very happy at Microsoft. I liked the people I met. I had a great time. You know? It was fantastic to be part of something that had never been, you know, ever been doing - ever been done before, and therefore, you know ...
THERAPIST: Had they had any - did they have retail stores at that point?
CLIENT: They had a couple, like three.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:26:54]
CLIENT: Yeah. And the next thing you know, I'm training the people for a new store in England that's opening up and this. It was a very glamorous thing. You know? And so, it was - and the thing is that the location where it was was not like in a mall like I am right now. You know, it was basically in an area kind of like - a little bit - not quite like the Square, but definitely it was a street for an area. Actually, it looks a lot like this area. So there's - but there's, you know, there's companies out there, and there's this, and there's that, and so it had - it has a very community resource feel to it more than anything.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, and ... yeah, so it was very different than it is now. I don't mind it so much, but, you know, over time, I really would like to get out of it. [00:27:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Just because it's - it's emotionally draining.
THERAPIST: But (inaudible at 00:28:06) like at that time, even what you're doing now is emotionally draining, and you like some things about it but it sounds like you don't like other things about it. At that time, this felt like it was a good transition.
CLIENT: It was a fantastic, exhilarating, I was building something new. I was valued for what I did.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: And you were getting out of something that had been stressful and quite variable.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the point - the thing is, they're leveraging the fact that back then, it was not - the type of training that they were doing was not focused on the same clientele as they did before, so I was dealing with people who were in maybe not the same industry, but different industries. And therefore, I was working part-time. And they were, you know, - this first thing is this whole idea of these are experts in this and that, who understand your industry. And therefore, when you train like say you're a professor, and you're - you're just - you're trying to understand and that why in the world it's not doing the citations correctly. Like this is somebody who knows and it really, really well, you know, and is going to be able to teach you. So this is something different than what it is now, you know, and because it was so new. And it still is, it is still a very academic-oriented clientele, and so ... [00:29:31]
THERAPIST: There was more depth that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. And, you know, it was a way to leverage my knowledge, and it was exciting. It was really exciting. You know? And ...
THERAPIST: Where did you think it would go for you?
CLIENT: I didn't really think about it at the time. I had so much else going on emotionally in my life that I was just happy to have a steady paycheck. You know? The other big thing is - is that, you know, you can just drag yourself to work and do a - a mostly okay job with this, whereas like when you consult, at least for me, I felt like I needed to be able to be present on a level that I couldn't necessarily if there was drama in my life 'cause it's keeping me from being able to solve and fix and do things that I normally could. And so the other one - not that I didn't - I don't ever do a job if I'm not willing to really put in as much in as is really necessarily or, you know, go up - it's a different level of it. It's a different level of creativity. And so ... [00:30:43]
THERAPIST: And the drama at that time was mostly the stuff with Mike's family.
CLIENT: His family - his depression was just out of control.
THERAPIST: I see. And your physical health?
CLIENT: Yeah. So, yeah, he was just - he was still finishing up his undergrad at that point.
THERAPIST: And this is - we're talking like 2001, 2002?
CLIENT: Yeah, he - he changed majors (overtalking at 00:31:09). Yeah. He changed majors and it changed - or added a major, not changed. And becoming a chemist really like made his ability to actually get a job a lot higher than just biologist. But it also changed ...
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Schooling and worked part of the time. Yeah.
CLIENT: So - I mean there's some overlap, but not as much as you'd think. And so, when we were down in Miami - he was in Orlando, and I was in Miami. He was on a co-op for a year, so that's why we were down there. [00:31:51]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It was a paid co-op, so.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But just - you know, it's - trust me, it was - it was like every single - every once in a while, I go back and look at this - this journal I used to keep, and it was like every single day, there was some sort of horrifying drama that I can't even imagine how I lived through that period of time. It was something bad all the time. You know? And basically, it was - it was December of 2000 was the point which I sort of figured out that he had a problem, but it wasn't really until around 2001, 2002 that it was really proof that it was - you know, that my - my fear was actually true, so ...
THERAPIST: How did - what was the proof at that time? Like what - what were the events that made it clear what was really going on? [00:32:53]
CLIENT: You mean originally or -
THERAPIST: In 2001. In December of 2001.
CLIENT: I think he finally went to see some doctors, who like - first of all, he started going to the SA Meetings, but then he started actually having doctors who supported that that really was the problem as opposed to he had been seeing a therapist who really screwed things over a lot. But she was of the belief that it was mostly because of the fact that he tied himself down too young and didn't have a whole lot of knowledge about human sexuality was actually really was the problem. Yeah now, I don't really get it either.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But she sent him home with textbooks and all kinds of random stuff, but like polyamory, and all those other stuff. I guess just to maybe the equivalent of burning out that - like, you know, sometimes, when you have canker sores and you put salt on them, that burns out the nerves so that it doesn't hurt anymore. I don't really understand. He'd come up with the strangest weird stuff, and I don't think it really did a damn thing. But seeing how he was kind of lying to everybody about what was going on, so - [00:34:07]
THERAPIST: But it was - it was through I guess his and his doctor's recognition and acknowledgement in like summer 2001ish that you became clear as opposed to by like knowing more about his behavior per se, like it was the -
CLIENT: Oh, I knew about it in 99 'cause it was on my - basically, 99, 2000, right about that period of time is when he started acting out on my computer.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, I knew that - I knew that there was something bizarre going on 'cause I've lost my job due to it, you know?
THERAPIST: Clearly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: But it wasn't just natural curiosity to - to, you know, to - it wasn't just natural curiosity like everyone said it was, you know, or natural like, you know, whatever. [00:35:03]
THERAPIST: I guess that's - that's part of what I'm wondering about is like there are a lot of people who sometimes surf Internet porn, -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - but I guess at some point, it must've become clear that he was like -
CLIENT: It wasn't a hobby.
THERAPIST: - I guess absorbed in a way that went well beyond casual use.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The problem was is to be able to prove that made me much more involved than I really wanted to because he wasn't admitting to anything really. I mean like he was admitting to some of it, but do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He - he - he - it - it would -
THERAPIST: That doesn't sound like he was honest about, which is true for people with lots of sorts of addictions, like, you know, maybe somebody knows you drink too much, but they don't know that like you really have to be drinking a lot every day. Do you know what I mean? [00:36:03]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's something like that kind of thing where you knew that he was doing this and probably more than was good, but it wasn't - it still wasn't clear how much and -
CLIENT: I didn't really understand what it was at that time either.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I mean now there's a lot of resources out there. Back then, not so much.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And so, I was just pretty much in a state of shock.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: So there was this conflict of that, the stuff with his family, your health getting worse. And you were -
CLIENT: On top of it, his family not really thinking this was a problem back then.
THERAPIST: Right. Right. Right.
CLIENT: It was a - it was a very, very, very ugly time, and I don't know if I ever mentioned this or not, but he ended up losing a job because of it too. [00:37:05]
THERAPIST: No. I knew that you lost your job and really couldn't work, I guess in part from being a contractor and the events after that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But he lost a job too?
CLIENT: Yeah. He had a - he was only working there for a little bit of time, but there was a spinoff on this one new type of technology that he was doing work with, and one day, he came home and he was really upset about something. It didn't make a whole lot of sense. He said it's because he broke an expensive piece of equipment or whatever, blah, blah, blah. And then later on, I figured out after, you know, - and this was like - the problem is, is that because it was so - I mean things take such a - such a long period of time to really just determine the reality of it. It's very hard for me to be able to give you an honest reco - recognit - recollection of it 'cause sometimes, when we'd have a conversation about something, it would take 12 to 15 hours of discussion to actually get him to admit that he acted up a lot. [00:38:01] Like multiple hours of this kind, you know what I mean? It's - it's - it takes so much, and some of it's just empty silence. Some of it's just - it just - it was really bad. Anyway, so he lost a job because of that. And it was a very small group of people, you know, it's a spinoff, that kind of thing, so it's - but it was just very, you know, and I started to figure out that he's doing this all the time. Like he just can't stop. He can't figure out where - I'd find out that, you know, if he was going out and about, sometimes he was going to a couple of computer rooms to do this kind of thing and that kind of stuff. Thank God that stopped. But, you know, it was very, very bad, and I never wish on another human being to have your instinct say something's very, very wrong, and have everybody else claim that there's nothing wrong. You know, this is kind of normal, and it's because of the fact that I was being gaslit at the time. You know? It was - it was pretty rotten. [00:39:26]
THERAPIST: And I guess it's a lot of what you've been living with, the consequences of.
CLIENT: Yeah. Part of the reason why it sort of unfortunately seemed like I'm - part of it's the fact that I'm like yeah, you know, at this point, you know - some of it I'm actively putting it like almost like you preshoom (ph) the feelings, but part of it is the fact that it went on for so long and so long ago that it was so - and it was so painful that it just sort of faded 'cause I had to - I mean anything that goes on for that long of a period of time, you know.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like it faded and it didn't in that the intensity of the sort of -
CLIENT: The details faded. The intensity and feeling was horrible.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. But it sounds like its effect on your sense of yourself -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - and your confidence -
CLIENT: Yeah, it really changed -
THERAPIST: Unfortunately. Yeah. It hasn't faded. Yeah. [00:40:29]
CLIENT: No. But the details, the actual details of the whole thing unfolded, and the real big reason why is because one is he just wouldn't say anything. He'd say he was thinking. It was like well, okay. Now, I don't want to be a jerk, but we've been sitting here for 20 minutes waiting for an answer.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It would take a long time, and it's like to this day, I still feel like I don't want to have another all-night discussion of absolutely nothing ever again 'cause it's just more than I can handle.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I resent that I had to - really resent that I had to play the game of like jailer to prove that this was the way it was and then had to be the crazy controlling wife, after being - the fact that I had to go chase this down and then had to be pigeon-holed as - as being the person who's trying to like check up on him. Like which way is it? How am I supposed to handle this? I'm really - I am more angry with the practitioner that he was with at the time that handled - [00:41:37]
THERAPIST: The one that you mentioned?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm more angry with that, but not - that's just simply - I don't know what it is, but it - it - it - it just really pissed me off. But at the same time like I don't know. That's actually a big fear I had when we moved to 'cause I was afraid I was going to - he was going to end up with somebody else, who was like had some sort of - okay. I'm embarrassed to actually admit this in this town. I'm extremely conservative. I have been. It's not because I blindly think that way. It just - and I believe that other people to have their own beliefs. But at the end of the day, I have - I hope that they're liberal enough to accept me for who I am too. You know? And like sending my husband - ex-husband home with some polyamory shit is not what I wanted. You know? I was terrified that when we moved here, that they were gonna get more like that kind of crap. [00:42:34]
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah. He can be out of the conservative (inaudible at 00:42:36) okay.
CLIENT: And it's not like I'm blindly that way. I mean I spend a lot of time thinking about this, and I would never want my beliefs on anybody else because that's part of what makes America - this is the part where you can tell my mom is from a Socialist country- this is part of what makes America awesome is the clashing of ideas and then finally finding a compromise. With that, there's no - you have to have as many, you need to have as much like struggle to get there. That's the part. It's the side that makes the equality thing. And so, I was terrified about coming here because -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: - being outed for that. But also, like this kind of crap. I mean come on. Who sends somebody home with this kind of thing?
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, I - we can talk more about it, but I certainly don't see the -
CLIENT: Value?
(Laughter)
THERAPIST: When this ends. We can stop for now. But we'll talk more on Tuesday. And I will keep my eyes open for something later in the day on Thursday.
CLIENT: Okay. Like I said, I'm thinking more just that so you know about it -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:43:33]
CLIENT: - for summer -
THERAPIST: It's fine.
CLIENT: - is going to be fine. I'm - help me, but for fall, when it happens, I just want to be able to plan for that.
THERAPIST: Sure. No problem.
CLIENT: Okay. It's almost dangerous when you live in a place where they have low socialism and you came from, you know, family, mother, who ran from socialism.
THERAPIST: I understand. Yeah.
CLIENT: I have some pretty horrifying stories. I'll see you later.
THERAPIST: I'll see you. [00:44:14]
END TRANSCRIPT
