TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: So I thought we'd take (ph) this session to get to know each other and I can answer any questions you have about the therapy. And why don't I just start out by getting to know you a little bit better, you give me some idea of why you're coming in for treatment now, what's been going on?
PATIENT: Basically I think, and you'll explain to me, I read a little bit about what the treatment's about, I know its short term in terms of psychotherapy. So I'm assuming that that means I have certain issues I need to uncover and resolve and (chuckles) that's what I'm hoping will happen.
And I think that some of my main issues which have affected me my whole life and that I'm trying to deal with now, and finally starting to deal with just by virtue of everything I've been going through lately, have to do... There are two really, one has to do with my parents and when I... I was brought up to be very independent and stand on my own two feet. And I know my parents love me and support me but for some reason I have this (chuckles) problem with... I think as a result of that I think I've become... I kind of rebelled against it, and I feel like I always need someone to love me or I'm not okay.
So as I became an adult, I mean I moved from my parents home to college which... where I have somewhat of a support system through my friends. But I've always had a lot of anxiety and panic my whole life, and transitional situations and tons of separation anxiety even when I was little. If I would go away on vacation with my friends I would have major anxiety attacks and not want to go because... and then once I got through it then I was fine and had a great time but I had extreme separation anxiety. 0:02:17.5
And then from the time I've been midway through college until now, I've gone from one relationship to the next, not being able to let go of one until I've found... not consciously, but I've stayed in relationships longer than I should have. I'm in now like my sixth long-term relationship over the last ten years, or twelve years, ten years. I don't let go of one person until I've found someone else and if I do, this new relationship I've been in for about four months and it was... each time I guess I get a little bit closer towards being okay standing on my own two feet but I never really, subconsciously, I guess I never really wanted to.
And this summer I broke up with someone I'd been going out with for three and a half years and had already met someone else, so I wanted whom I started dating but it wasn't like a secure relationship. So during that transitional period I totally flipped out, I just started... I mean I don't know, you know?
COUNSELOR: When you weren't seeing anybody?
PATIENT: I was dating Cole, who's my new boyfriend now, but it wasn't a secure relationship. I didn't have him to depend on and rely on and not like, as a conscious, logical person I don't want someone to depend on and rely on, and I think I should be okay by myself but emotionally I just totally fall apart. So I just started getting really obsessive about Cole immediately and trying to cling to him but he wasn't letting me and I was like... I fell apart. I mean I totally started obsessing about him everyday, you know did he call? If he called, how was the conversation? If he didn't call, where was he and why wasn't...? And I mean I had just started dating him and all my focus was on him and I wasn't... I was just getting hysterical, I was getting anxiety attacks and I was miserable. And it was really (chuckles) just like my whole world fell apart because I didn't have someone to depend on.
COUNSELOR: And what does that mean to you not to have someone to depend on? You do have some sense of that?
PATIENT: I don't know, I just... I think... I mean all I can do is guess that when I was little I didn't get the love and support I needed from my parents but I don't remember that; I don't remember that emotionally.
My parents say that from the time I was an infant I had like anxiety and separation anxiety. And if we moved... when I was an infant we moved from Richmond to a new home and I freaked and my mother had to take me out of the room where everybody was moving... 0:05:05.1
So from their account of it I was born that way and that's how I am. But I just think that ultimately I have to be okay with myself to be a healthy, strong individual to be good in a relationship, I mean that's my goal. I don't want... now I have Cole and things are going really well with him and I think I'll probably marry him, I'm just... I love him, I'm at that point in my life, he's at that point in his life, and he's dealing with all this stuff with me. And lately...
COUNSELOR: So you've let him in, sort of, with some of these issues?
PATIENT: Oh yes, I have no problem (chuckles) letting people in. Like I'm a completely open person and I welcome having significant others and people I can share everything with, so if nothing else, probably in the beginning, that scared him away a little bit but through him getting to know me he's dealing with it better. And he's also someone who has a lot of anxieties and issues that I'm dealing with with him, so it's kind of mutual in that way.
But lately what's been going on is... and I have a trust issue, I mean my father has always... well I didn't know this until I was 18 but I think I was probably aware of it when I was younger, but my father has always cheated on my mother. And I started when I was 18, stumbling into his affairs, but completely by accident... but figured out between the time I was 18 and I was in college, like three different times...
COUNSELOR: You mean coming home and finding him with another woman or...?
PATIENT: No, no but like completely coincidentally. Like the first time I was at one of my friends' house and her older brother was joking around with me. And I was 18 and he was like, "I know what kind of car your father drives." And I said, "How do you know...?"
I mean I remember this vividly it's so funny, I said, "Well, how do you know that Joe?" He's like, "I just do. He drives a black Oldsmobile." I was like "Okay, well so Suzie (sp) told you?" And he said, "No, no. The interior is brown, like leather or whatever." I was like, "Okay Joe, how do know that?" He said, "No I'm just... I'm choosing (ph) you to park your Dad's car at the Lewis household one time." I said, "Oh alright." He was like a valet parker or something. I was like, whom does my Dad know at the Lewis household.
So I go home and it was dinnertime and my Mom was in the kitchen and I said, "Mom, who does Dad know at the Lewis house?" And she's like, "Why?" I said, "Well, Joe said he parks his car there and I just wondered who he knew." So my mother said, "Well why don't you call him at the office and find out?" And I knew immediately that something was wrong. I had no idea... I didn't expect... I wasn't looking for anything, or suspicious... 0:07:41.0
I said, "No, that's okay." And she said, "No, why don't you pick up..." And she made me pick up the phone and call him at work and say, "Well, whom do you know...?" And he said, "Well you know..." He's a researcher and Nuns ran the hospital he worked for at that time, and he said well one of his sisters works in, you know, lives there and blah, blah, blah. And also Kerry, his assistant, is moving in and I've been helping her move in.
So immediately it clicked that Kerry is, you know, something was really wrong. And that my mother went upstairs and I knew she was crying on her couch in her bedroom and I was like, oh my God! Oh my God! Obviously he's having an affair.
And then later that night he came home and I was sleeping and I got up to go downstairs and I heard him yell, or my mother yelling, "Well, what do you expect me to say to your daughter when she comes in and asks who her father's seeing at the...?"
So that was the first time and I completely, I don't know, I mean I may have perceived from a younger age... I know from the time I was very little I had a very close connection with my mother and I always felt worried for her. I felt that I needed to protect her and I don't know why. So maybe I was aware from a younger age that weird things were going on but didn't know exactly what, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yes, so you have some sense or suspicion that things are sort of rooted in your history?
PATIENT: Yes and since then, I mean even as of very recently, I found out so many other things about my parents that are now making sense.
So that happened a few times, and when I was in college my parents almost got divorced and my mother just decided, "I'm 50 years old and I don't want my life to change and I'm not..." whatever. So I mean they're really good... they're friends, and I think they love and respect and admire each other as individuals and adults, but I wouldn't say that they have a loving, warm relationship. And the times that they do show affection to each other it almost seems like it's staged, you know what I mean? I think they love each other as people but I don't think they're in love, and I guess maybe I always sensed that as a child.
And recently, I guess like six, not even six months or so ago, my mother was in town and...
COUNSELOR: Wait let me ask you...
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: ...what does that mean to sense that as a child? I'm just not sure...
PATIENT: I just don't... I don't know, I mean I don't know, I just always remember feeling worried and scared for my mother and it may have been for a number of different reasons.
Now I think, I always thought and think that I have a really normal, pretty happy childhood. I mean my parents were good parents, we were well disciplined but we had... we spent quality family time together and I remember growing up happy, I was happy growing up. 0:10:26.3
I mean I had things with my father as, my brother had the same thing, as we got older he got more and more distant from us. And my dad... his whole take on relationships with us is, "You're..." And I heard this from his mother because each of us have tried to connect with him and he's kind of pushed us away a little bit and his response, from my uncle, is that he's our parent, not our friend and he doesn't want to be our friend, he's our father... You know what I mean? So clearly...
COUNSELOR: That's what your uncle told you?
PATIENT: Yes, and he...
COUNSELOR: But your mother, you've always felt that you identified a little bit more closely with her and...
PATIENT: Yes but my mother also, I mean my mother; I didn't know this until I was older but she like... depression runs in my family. She's... her whole life, been really depressed and even when she was little she said she was suicidal, when she was a little girl, and she was on antidepressants for 20 years. So I mean maybe... and I didn't know that when I was younger, but maybe I just sensed something was wrong with her and maybe that was it.
I don't know whether it had to do with her relationship with my father. Whether I felt like I had to protect her from my father or... I just know that I had kind of a very close connection and bond with her, and to a degree, in an unhealthy way, you know?
Well, I went through a stage when I was 10 years old where I just didn't want to leave my mother's side at all. And my brother and his friends used to make fun of me because everywhere my mother went I wanted to go. And I was always worried that something bad would happen to her and I just... and maybe it was because of my separation anxiety, I don't know, or maybe it was just a phase I was going through, maybe it doesn't have anything to do with anything else.
But when I say that I feel like I always perceived something was wrong that's kind of what I mean. I just think that I always felt like a special closeness and connection with her, and in a sense I think I felt like a... I wanted to take care of her and I don't really know why. But (chuckles) that was all a long time ago.
Recently I found out, and why did I do this? So I didn't... you know this, I told you I've been in like three, this is my sixth long-term relationship that I'm in now.
COUNSELOR: And how long have you been seeing Cole?
PATIENT: Six... for about six months. But... I'm losing my train of thought here.
COUNSELOR: And how long do your relationships usually last?
PATIENT: A long time. The first one was like six years, one was two and a half years, one was three, three and a half years; so a long time. And all the relationships I've had I've been very good friends, you know, best friends with my partner. 0:12:58.2
But like Jessup was my first boyfriend and he was just... that started in college and he was younger and he wasn't right for me and I knew it, so eventually it broke up but it didn't break up, and I ended all my relationships. But I met someone else and I probably should have let go of Jessup a year earlier than I did but it was comfortable and it was safe. And I guess I didn't want to be alone, I've never thought of myself as being the type of person who doesn't want to be alone because I'm not scared to do things by myself. I've gone to movies by myself, I'll go out to rest... if I have to, I prefer to be with company but I'm not, I'm independent but I prefer to have company.
So I never realized that I was... but I do, in retrospect, know that each of my relationships I should have let go well before I did. And I didn't let go of them until I met someone else.
COUNSELOR: Because you didn't... you felt you didn't want to be alone, or what?
PATIENT: At the time, no. I mean it wasn't a conscious... but when I look back, each of them, like Chris my second long term relationship, I didn't end the relationship with him until he asked me to marry him. We got engaged and I knew I couldn't marry him because there were just inherent problems that weren't resolvable and I knew it. And I knew a year before that that I should...
I was on vacation with my girlfriends and I was like, "I have to get out of this." But I didn't. And we had broken up for two weeks to decide whether we wanted our relationship to go forward or not and I said, all right I love him. And I just wasn't strong enough to let go, even though I knew things about him I couldn't change and they made me unhappy.
So when I got back with him after two weeks, my... what I said to him was, "Yes I love you and yes, I want to try to continue the relationship but we should go into therapy together." I should have ended it, period. And that's when he's like, "Well I want you to marry me." I mean that all happened at the same time. It was the two-week breakup when I was thinking on completely different lines, he went out and bought me a ring and said, "Let's get married." I had no idea he was going to do it. And I was thinking, okay I should probably let go but let's try to make this work, and I do love him and let's go to therapy.
So p.s. after a month or two, I was like, I grabbed onto Trey, my next relationship (chuckles) and started having... I had an affair with him to get away from Chris. I mean I just wasn't strong enough to let go of Chris and I'm not... and I've never cheated, I don't cheat on people, I'm a very monogamous person but it's always taken me...
COUNSELOR: Another person.
PATIENT: ...having someone else, to have the strength to let go of the person I'm with.
COUNSELOR: Can you give me some sense of what your experience is when you're trying to... when you know it's sort of over but you just don't feel the strength can you...?
PATIENT: I guess it's not a conscious thing, again I think in each instance it's been like a year later that I finally... it's like I'm pushed to the point where I have to let go.
COUNSELOR: But you tell yourself, "I should make this..." "I should try some more with this man," or "I should..." 0:16:01.3
PATIENT: No it's not even trying, it's that I'm in... in each case, I'm in a relationship where this person is my very good friend and it's comfortable and it's safe and it's fun, so I don't... I just go with the relationship rather than...
I think I'm at the point in my life now where I'm finally working on myself even though I'm involved with someone else. It's a relationship where he doesn't enable me to just depend on him and push all my problems away. I think until this point in my life I have not been... I think I've always had the same issues but I never really dealt with them, I just got caught up in all, everything that was going on from day to day and ignored. Like I've always...
COUNSELOR: Ignored your...? Ignored your...? Ignored...?
PATIENT: Ignored the problems I have to resolve within myself. I think that I've clung to other people and not dealt with myself. And I did actually... like now things are coming to the surface and I'm dealing with issues but the way that my, the way that...
For example, one of these dependency things that I do, and I just... again I've pieced this (chuckles) altogether over the years, but I've always... I do not control my finances, and I overspend, not to a terrible degree. But then I look to the person I'm with to take... to help me out of it. And I've done that... I did it with Chris, I got my... I ran up all my bills. And I wasn't doing it consciously but what I attributed it to is that like my parents... it's like a way to find someone to take care of me even if I'm not saying, "Okay, just take care of me." Or, you know, like I would say to my parents, "Love me, support me, need me, hold me, take care of me." I feel like an infant, you know what I mean?
But what I would do instead is I'd go out and I'd spend all this money and I'd be, "You have to help me out of this because I don't have any money and they're going to cut..." So Chris lent me $2,500 and paid my bills and he said, "Okay, now you cut up all your credit cards and we'll pay off your bill and..." So I think I did that to have... it was like another way of having someone take care of me and I've always been that way. And even when I broke up with Chris, and Trey, I mean I would overspend all the time and he would take care of me. Well now I don't have anybody to take care of me.
COUNSELOR: Because Cole doesn't do that?
PATIENT: No, and that's part of the reason I freaked out. When I let go of Trey I told him... because Trey and I talked about getting married but he's got two kids and he's been going through a divorce for three years and he's still not divorced, so that's like a whole other issue. 0:18:41.7
But I was scared because I don't know... I live above my means and I knew that I would have to really take control of it and take care of myself. And I know I think I can do it if I have to but I never have and I still am not really doing it and I'm still... I mean I'm much better because I have to be and I know in the back of my mind there is no-one there to bail me out but I'm still like doing it a little bit and still getting Trey to help me out a little bit and I mean, it's that.
And I think that's the way I've gone from my parents, needing them to needing other people. Like I have little self-destructive things, like I overspend, I don't have to do that. I'm an adult, I'm smart, I know that I don't have to (chuckles) that I shouldn't but I do; I do not control it, ever.
COUNSELOR: And when you're spending money is there some sense that you're doing something that you shouldn't do? Or, you know, what's your experience when you actually spend the money?
PATIENT: Well I haven't been spending money lately at all because I know, I mean... But yes there's... I just stay out of stores. It's a little bit euphoric; it's always been, like I love to shop and buying things for myself.
Really for a long time I... material things to me were equated with my self worth. And again, not on a conscious level but having thought about it and realized like if I buy something new or if I have something nice, just something fancy, then I feel better about myself. I like to have new things, I like to... so I think that's why for a long time I did it. It's like the materialistic things, whatever self-love I was lacking that somehow if I...
COUNSELOR: It was like indulging... It was like indulging yourself, splurging on yourself.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And that was an in the moment experience.
PATIENT: Right but then I always felt guilt about it. I mean I just always feel guilt after buying things, always. So yes, it's like a high, I'm like a shopaholic to a degree, but I stay out of the stores. I mean I control it to a degree. But I do get myself into trouble where I buy things that... and I need someone else to come pay for them because I don't have the money.
So that's all that, the whole thing with my bottom issue with not really loving myself enough and I don't know why. Like I would go out and I would buy things to make me feel better, and people are going to like me if I have the most trendy clothes, or whatever it is, you know what I mean? Or if I have expensive jewelry or whatever, like I... you know what I mean? Like I...
COUNSELOR: No, I'm not quite sure I do.
PATIENT: Like I improve my self worth by going shopping and buying things.
COUNSELOR: Because it makes you look nice and people are attracted to you.
PATIENT: Yes, I guess so. Appearance has always been very, very important to me. Like someone will like me better I guess if I look prettier, I look... I don't know. I mean there are so many different things I'm talking about right now but... 0:21:48.2
COUNSELOR: Well I wanted to... I was going to ask you, wasn't it... what's your experience telling me all of us? What are you feeling? What are your feelings right now as you explain this to me?
PATIENT: (Chuckles) It making me a little anxious.
COUNSELOR: Can you explain the anxiety a little bit more maybe?
PATIENT: Just getting tension here and feeling more fidgety and a little tingly and...
COUNSELOR: What do you... what's your sense of why that is? What's the tension in your stomach (ph)?
PATIENT: Why am I getting anxiety are you asking me? Because these are all things I guess that make me uncomfortable about myself that I don't want to know but they are the bad things about me, so it's uncomfortable to talk about them.
COUNSELOR: Yes. It's uncomfortable to tell me all these things.
PATIENT: (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: All these bad things about yourself.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Yes. But sort of necessary so I can get to know you?
PATIENT: Yes. I mean, I guess I don't want to feel all these things, so I'm trying to figure out what's caused them all so that I can let it go, or do whatever I have to do not to feel that way anymore.
COUNSELOR: Not to feel what way?
PATIENT: I guess I just want to be in control of my own life. I don't want to... like right now it's focused on my relationship with Cole, I've been... excuse me I have a little bit of a cold (chuckles), I've been... like I said he's the type of person who I will try to cling to but he doesn't really let me, he kind of forces me to deal with things by myself. He's supportive of me and I think that's good for me because it's what I've always had is someone else who was just... either let me forget my problems or taken them on for me so I don't have to deal with them but it's scary. And I've crying a lot with him and...
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me the scary part?
PATIENT: I'm not sure that he loves me 100 percent and that's what I need to know; that's what I've always needed to know.
When I was little I used to go up into my parents room before I went to bed every night and say, "Good night, I love you." And they'd say, "Good night Lauren." And I'd say, "I love you, do you love me?" And they'd say, "Yes Lauren we love you, good night." I've done that my whole life, always, needing to know that someone loves me. And I do it with Cole now. 0:24:34.3
Last night I had a conversation with my parents and I'm an adult now so my conversations with them are, "Hi, how are you?" "Good." "What's going on?" Blah, blah, blah, they're kind of superficial, I mean I've realized that my parents are my parents; they're not going to change. I don't expect them to change; I know that whatever issues I have with them I have to work out for myself. And I'm an adult I can't...
But immediately after I hung up with them, and this is how... I get really upset when I talk to them. I don't really like to talk to them, and it's not upset with anything in particular that the conversation is about, but it's more upset that the love and the warmth and the support that I've always wanted from them, that I know is there if I need them. Like God forgive there's an emergency, my parents are going to come through and help me, I know they're there, you know what I mean? But emotionally they're not as supportive and loving as I guess, I've always needed them to be.
So now when I talk to them on the phone and it's just a superficial conversation, I hang up and then I kind of get depressed. Not for anything specific but I think overall because now I'm just... I realize somewhere in my subconscious that I'm not getting what I need.
So last night I spoke with them and I didn't get what I need, it's not as if I call them to look for support but just in everyday conversations with them, I guess it strikes me on some level that, whatever it is, they don't love me or support me as much as I need them to. It's like it's a childish, infantile thing inside of me still looking for the love and support from my parents but I never got it, I guess, and I never will.
So immediately I turned to Cole and I wanted to be... I needed reassurance from him that everything was okay, that he loved and me and that he was going to be there for me and that we're going to be together for the rest of our lives and it's just like this insecurity in me comes out. And it's like I transferred it from not getting it from my parents to trying to get it from Cole immediately. And I think what I need to do is to be able to be okay without getting it from someone else, you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: And the scary part with Cole is what? That he might not come through for you? I mean he hasn't always been able to come through for you or...?
PATIENT: Well he's... it's a new relationship so I mean he's... he thinks he wants to marry me and spend the rest of his life with me but he's the type of person who will say, "I can't promise you that everything is always going to be okay. No, I can't because maybe it won't be." You know he's so... I need someone to say, "Yes Lauren everything is always going to be okay. Don't worry I'll take care of you, everything's..." And I should be able to be okay by myself, I know that but I'm always looking for it from someone else. I don't know why, I mean I assume it's because I didn't get it when I was younger but that's just an assumption, maybe I'm just screwed up (chuckles), I don't know. 0:27:32.6
But the way it affects my relationship right now is that when I'm feeling that I get very insecure and clingy. In a lot of my life I'm not like that at all but in dealing with these issues when they come up, which they're really like kind of at the surface now.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I'm like that. And I don't want to... and that's only a small part of me but it's a significant part of me.
COUNSELOR: What's it like to tell me that you're insecure and clingy? I mean to say that to me?
PATIENT: (Chuckles) Well I mean I'm talking about it because I want to resolve it so it's not, you know?
COUNSELOR: So you're just... you're giving me information?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Yes. You want me to know about it?
PATIENT: Well that's what's going on (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Well, let me tell you a little bit about this approach because I think it is a little different than what the kind of therapy that you described in the beginning, or what you expected this to be. In this therapy we're not so interested, or it doesn't focus so much on the why you are the way you are, or why you have the feelings that you have, it's interested and I think it can supplement your understanding. But this therapy focuses mostly on how the feelings develop in the moment and so this therapy uses a lot of... uses this relationship a lot; the relationship between the patient and the therapist. And a lot of times what I'll be doing is asking you, what are you feeling right now? What are you experiencing right now? You know, as you tell me this, or as you're reliving something, so we get a sense of how your feelings evolve in a moment.
And I guess the philosophy also is that what happens between us, how you experience me and yourself here in this room is sort of a laboratory for understanding how you experience your relationships outside of the room. So again a lot of times I might bring back... bring you back from telling me an experience you had to having you tell me...
PATIENT: Tell me how (chuckles)... yes. 0:30:18.6
COUNSELOR: ...how you're feeling. And I think I'll also be trying some little, I guess they're little tasks on getting you to be more in touch with your feelings in the moment. So yes, I guess the focus is mostly going to be on that, on really trying to heighten your experience in the moment, as opposed to just sort of telling me things, do you know what I mean?
I want to know, (chuckles) I want to know about you, and obviously I don't know very much about you at all. So I want to hear all this information you have to tell me but I think as the therapy goes on I'm going to ask you to focus a little bit more on your feelings in the moment.
PATIENT: And how does that help me resolve them or...? Can I ask you that (chuckles)?
COUNSELOR: Yes. That's a very complicated question but my feeling is that feelings are very important... an important source of information that a lot of times people aren't very in touch with. Their awareness of exactly what they're feeling in the moment and they sort of behave in an automatic way, and so they bypass what their real feelings are. But ultimately these feelings are going to affect how you behave with other people.
Like your needs are to know that you're loved and taken care of, it's something that's very real and very important to you and it comes out in ways that you're not very comfortable with. They really don't... aren't the most adaptive for you, so if we can try to understand exactly what those feelings are about, as opposed to understanding that perhaps your parents did not give you all the...
PATIENT: Right. [Split it out] (ph) to nothing.
COUNSELOR: ...love and attention that you... Right.
PATIENT: Right (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Right. But if we can, maybe sometimes-even experience it in the room here then we can get a better sense of what it means and how you can deal with it. I guess it's a sense of being more in touch with it to when it happens, as opposed to just putting it on hold and then having it sort of spill out in ways that you're not always comfortable with. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be taken care (chuckles).
PATIENT: (Chuckles).
COUNSELOR: I mean natural feelings.
PATIENT: (Chuckles) But not when it's self destructive (chuckles), right?
COUNSELOR: Yes, well no, no, it's clear that you're not comfortable with the way you behave with Cole, or your parents, or the spending, it's just not something you want to do in your life. So those are the things we'd work on.
PATIENT: Now, did you not see all the six hours worth of information that I [printed out to] (ph) show you?
COUNSELOR: Well, I am given a small packet of Xeroxed stuff your background information and your target complaints. But I didn't look at the videos those are just for intake.
PATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: Is there something that you wanted me to see or...?
PATIENT: No but they're... so that's one issue, the other issue that I'm told (chuckles)... 0:33:28.8
COUNSELOR: What's one issue?
PATIENT: The one we just talked about, you know like about me needing love. So I guess what I, I know it's okay to need someone else but...
COUNSELOR: What's the matter?
PATIENT: I'm just thinking of what Cole says to me and I don't... maybe, maybe because of his own fears in him. He's been in therapy for a long time and he's so big on figuring out your problems, but so am I but he kind of pushes me to deal with my own stuff. And maybe, I don't know whether that's good for me or bad for me. I mean my instant reaction is I want him to love me and take care of me, and his response is kind of like, well now it's grown to be, "I do love you and I will support you but you have to deal with this."
And I don't know if that's right because from other people, I mean I think he's right because I think I should be able to be okay without anybody else, and I think if I were I wouldn't get this clingy need to attach myself to [men, no] (ph) and that would be healthier. Because that's got to be scary for someone to deal with, you don't want to be with someone who you think is going to suck the life out of you and needs everything for me to be okay, obviously, and I don't but I get like that. You know that's... that's the person I convey to him sometimes when I'm feeling, whatever, having just spoken to my parents.
But I mean Trey on the other hand, my last boyfriend; I never felt any of this with because I guess he was like a father figure to me. I mean he took care of everything and I felt safe and secure and...
COUNSELOR: So there's two parts to it, it's sort of trying to see it from Cole's point of view, which is you can see why he would want you to be more independent and less clingy and...
PATIENT: And even though that's more uncomfortable, is it right, or is it not right for me? I mean maybe I do need someone who... I don't think so though but I was going to say maybe I do need someone who's going to take care of me all the time but clearly, I mean I wasn't happy with Trey for a number of reasons but... so that didn't really work but I certainly felt safe and secure with him. And none of this came up that often because he was always there to protect me and take care of me.
COUNSELOR: I might be wrong but I'm getting the sense that you're sort of now giving me the other side of it a little bit more. Where you're sort of questioning Cole's needing you to be a little bit more independent? 0:36:37.2
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Is that what's going on with you right now?
PATIENT: Yes, well... yes. Because is that good for me or is it bad for me? Is it something that's going to help me become a stronger person by myself or should, like you said is it okay to need someone? But then there's to what degree. I can need him and it's okay but not... right now it's to such an extreme that he wants me to deal with it by myself. And I know I can have someone who will deal with it for me but what's better for me, to deal with it by myself? To like... you know?
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you have the answer to that question?
PATIENT: I think I should... I think that I'm supposed to deal with it by myself and that'll make me a stronger person and I think that's right but it's uncomfortable that Cole pushes that on me. But maybe that's where I need to be because there have been other relationships where that hasn't been pushed on me but for whatever reason they didn't work out. And those are all sorts of relationships I know I should have let go of and I didn't.
COUNSELOR: So there's a bit of a split right there? Where you feel like, "Well I understand what Cole's trying to do and it makes sense and I think that probably is what I should but..."
PATIENT: But it doesn't feel good.
COUNSELOR: ...it doesn't feel good and there might be some resentment about it, is that...?
PATIENT: Well it makes me... it kind of has, it makes me feel... it feeds my insecurity. I'm looking for someone to say, "Yes you're okay, and I love you." And that it's almost like I feel I'd be able to handle it better if I had that security and the support. But I guess I don't, when I have it I don't deal with it, I sweep it away. So I mean, I guess he is right but it doesn't feel good, I want to hear what I want to hear which is, "I love you and I'll take care of you no matter what." And I'm not hearing that and it's uncomfortable but I guess it's good for me.
I mean what turned that whole thing was by you saying it's okay to need someone and I...
COUNSELOR: I was thinking about that, yes.
PATIENT: And I think it is okay, I mean my mother has said that to me too, like its okay, maybe... And thinking (ph) of my relationship with Cole he's like, "Well you know you have to resolve your problems by yourself, and stand on your own two feet and..." And I was like, "Yes I guess I do." And then my mother said, "Well you know maybe that's just you, maybe you always want... you need someone to be there and there's not necessarily anything wrong with that, some people do." And of course that's what I want to accept and believe because that's easier and safer, yes sure, it's always nice to have someone there and I've always wanted someone there.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And it feels better to have someone there.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So I don't know, you know... I don't know... 0:39:42.1
COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense of what the feeling is when you're trying to sort this out right now?
PATIENT: It's kind of sick (chuckles), like a sick in the pit of my stomach.
COUNSELOR: An anxious feeling?
PATIENT: Not anxious but just like, I don't want to deal with... I just want to push it away I don't... it's scaring me a little because I'm just getting to know Cole and I say I love him and I do, to a degree.
But again there have certainly been people in my life that have made these things easier for me to deal with, or not deal with. I don't know, I'm trying to figure out whether it's a good thing that he pushes me to stand on my own two feet because it doesn't feel good, or not.
COUNSELOR: But there's a sense that looking at, even this dilemma, the two sides of this is just kind of ugh, you know it's...
PATIENT: Yes (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: (Chuckles)...I'd rather not, you know?
PATIENT: It is. I would rather not but that's not going to get me anywhere, I know that.
COUNSELOR: Right. But there's a real like... it's like it's going to bring up bad stuff. If that's not right, let me know.
PATIENT: No because I guess that's true because I just... my dealing with this shouldn't rely on anybody else... I mean it shouldn't, you know what I'm saying? It shouldn't have anything to do with anybody else. I mean my relationship with Cole is not centered on the issues that I have to deal with, or it shouldn't be I don't think. And that's kind of what I'm doing. Okay I guess I'm figuring out if it's not good for me that the way he responds to what I'm going through, or the amount of support he gives me or doesn't give me in my going through this. If it's not good for me that means I should let him go which I'm certainly not comfortable with doing at all. So I guess that's what's scaring... (chuckles) it all comes back to having someone there or not having someone there but it doesn't...
COUNSELOR: Yes, you're working very fast but I'm trying to... I feel like I'm just trying to keep up here because you've got something on your mind now.
PATIENT: (Chuckles) I know.
COUNSELOR: And I don't think I'm exactly privy to it although I know you're doing your best to let me in on this but it seems like you're already thinking, "Well God there's this glitch in the relationship and maybe it's not going to work out after all." I have a feeling you're already moving to that logical conclusion or something.
PATIENT: No because I don't want that to be the (chuckles) logical conclusion. I guess...
COUNSELOR: No, no, I agree but... 0:42:38.6
PATIENT: ...I'm trying to sort out whether... is it okay that he kind of makes me feel bad because he forces me to deal with these things and says and doesn't give me the 100 percent security and reassurance that I'm looking for, is that my problem? Or is that a problem with the relationship?
COUNSELOR: So, I mean I feel like you're trying to already decide what your next move should be and that's not... I'm going to try to probably, try to keep you from doing that because I'd much rather us explore some of the feelings that are coming up for you right now. I mean you see because your mind is already, it seems to me, your mind is already trying to go, "Okay, well if this is how he feels then this isn't the way I want him to feel and I know that these feelings should be legitimate and he should accept them...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...then what do I do with this?"
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And, "Is this okay or is this not okay?" And those are the things that I think would serve us well to focus on but more... you could stay with maybe that discomfort of kind of thinking, "Well maybe Cole really isn't expecting something that I can give him right now or..." those sorts of things or problems. I guess staying with the discomfort of knowing that there might be problems or disagreements between you and Cole anyway (ph). I'm not quite sure what the discomfort [level is] (ph) but you felt it in your stomach, and just looking at this stuff you got uncomfortable.
PATIENT: (Chuckles) Yes.
COUNSELOR: What's going on?
PATIENT: I don't know I'm feeling a little numb, I don't know (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me about the numbness?
PATIENT: It's just tingly; I mean I guess its anxiety again. Just a little tingly, kind of like shut down (chuckles), or like overload, stops and go back. (Chuckles).
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: Nothing, that's it.
COUNSELOR: Is it embarrassing [talking about it] (ph)?
PATIENT: Yes. I don't know, I think so.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me about the embarrassment?
PATIENT: I'm at a loss, it just feels, I don't know. I just feel like if I could start, not over, but (chuckles) talk about something else.
COUNSELOR: So you want to move to something else?
PATIENT: Well not necessarily something else but like approach it (chuckles) from a different angle or something, I don't know, maybe that's why. (Chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Well, I feel at a loss too.
PATIENT: Do you?
COUNSELOR: Yes. 0:45:45.5
We can drop this; I'll be fine with dropping it if you want to.
PATIENT: No because I don't... I guess I should figure out what made me so uncomfortable that I just...
COUNSELOR: You guess you should?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Mandate.
PATIENT: (Chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Well it's just okay to know that you were uncomfortable and let me know that you're not comfortable. We don't need to figure out why. Maybe it just got too close, it's the first session and I'm not (ph) asking you to sort of give me a moment-by-moment account of your feelings, that's a very hard thing. It's a very personal thing and it might get too much, I mean you have the right say, "This isn't comfortable for me."
PATIENT: I mean it all comes back to maybe I'm wrong but there it is, it's that in starting to talk about all that, the fear or maybe...
COUNSELOR: [All what]? (ph)
PATIENT: You know, all my fears and how they relate to Cole. What shut me down I think is the fear that he might not be right for me, I don't know whether he is or isn't but that scares me; if he's not, that really scares me.
COUNSELOR: What's the fear there?
PATIENT: I guess it's a fear of having to be alone, I don't know. Of not having someone to love me or I can't see beyond... what would be beyond my relationship with Cole right now. I don't want to be alone; I don't want to be by myself. I don't have anybody else. And I want to love him and I want him to love me and that's growing, again we haven't known each other for very long.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel that fear now?
PATIENT: No, it's gone.
COUNSELOR: [You keep floating]? (ph)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You don't have tightness in your stomach?
PATIENT: If I did [I don't anymore] (ph) (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:48:27.5).
PATIENT: Tingly.
Now I'm getting scared that, is all this ugh... I'm getting scared that, is this going to affect my relationship with him? And I (chuckles) don't really want it to. But I know if it does, it does because that's a reality. 0:48:52.6
COUNSELOR: We're going to have to [end the session here] (ph) but I wanted to know if you have any more questions for me? Or is this time fine for now or...?
PATIENT: Yes this is good for now. Is it okay for you?
COUNSELOR: Yes, yes. I think in December, which I think isn't too far off, we might need to change times but I'll let you know plenty of time ahead. How are you doing?
PATIENT: I'm fine (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: You're fine but...?
PATIENT: I was better when I came in (chuckles). Well you know it's not comfortable, I mean... So later I guess we'll talk... there are other issues I have to... which that's what I had asked if you... how much information you saw in there, this is one of my issues, I have other issues too.
COUNSELOR: Well I mean 30 (ph) minutes actually is a good period of time.
PATIENT: Yes. Why is it intensive? Why do they call...? Its research (ph) is intensive short-term psychotherapy.
COUNSELOR: Intensive because it is short term so that means that there's going to be more activity on the therapists' part. So they'll be little tasks that we'll do and I'll try to focus on as much as possible. So that's what they mean by intensive, it's not just that you can lie on a couch and (cross talking inaudible at 0:50:18.7).
PATIENT: No, I figured it meant that much more was going to happen in a short period of time and... And there are different kinds of psychotherapy right? Are there different types of...?
COUNSELOR: Yes, there are different types.
PATIENT: So are you approaching me (chuckles) with one certain...?
COUNSELOR: (Chuckles).
PATIENT: Am I not supposed to know this?
COUNSELOR: (Chuckles) No, no you can know it.
PATIENT: Are you approaching me...? What are you...? In what way are you approaching me? What type of psychotherapy?
COUNSELOR: This is called... this is sort of an experimental type of therapy.
PATIENT: (Laughter).
COUNSELOR: It's a personal experiential; personal meaning that we're going to focus on our relationship and then experiential is sort of that we focus on your experience of the feelings.
And there are other kinds, cognitive behavioral which goes more into your thinking, distortions in your thinking that get in your way. And there's a more psychodynamic kind of therapy that focuses on the kinds of things that I think you talked about when you first came in about, you know, why...
PATIENT: Why things are how they are?
COUNSELOR: Yes, what patterns are you repeating from your childhood, and that kind of thing.
PATIENT: And how did you all decide who gets what type of...? I mean from reviewing who decides... like who decided that I should have the interpersonal experi... what is it?
COUNSELOR: Experiential.
PATIENT: Experiential.
COUNSELOR: Well, I was available, that's a big part of it; therapist availability. And I actually... usually that's the factor; I mean they say random assignment but not all therapists are available and you have to wait pretty much...
PATIENT: And is one supposed to be better than the other? Are they all...?
COUNSELOR: No, no. They're not... no, they've all been proven to be effective it's just how they're effective varies from treatment to treatment. 0:52:01.0
So I guess I'll see you next week then.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Wednesday at 9 o'clock.
PATIENT: Thank you. Nice to meet you.
COUNSELOR: It was very nice to meet you, I'm sorry about the mix-up earlier.
END TRANSCRIPT
