*TEXT-PV010406  20 October 1970
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:   (3-minute silence) I was, I think, just wondering right now what I've been doing, mentally I guess it would be since yesterday.  Because I know that yesterday's occurred to me several times or the s_ same things I was talking about yesterday and— (sniff).  And I don't know, I mean I hadn't really thought about what it was I was doing with the thoughts, but it seems almost as if I am trying to push it away (sniff).  And that, and that—, well the one thing I'd keep remembering as something I had to do, other than pushing the whole thing out of my mind, was saying at one point that I wanted something from my parents and my family that just given the way they are I won't be ever able to get.  And I have to accept that and I can't and—.  I don't know, it seems like that's wha_ what I've decided to focus on as far as, I don't know sort of talking myself into this is the way things are and I have to accept it.  And then otherwise trying to push it out of my mind.
And then, uhm, I was thinking about how I felt about MSCZ, too.  Because it almost seems as I've pushed this more out of my mind.  I feel differently toward him, because at first on Sunday, right after I spoke to my mother—, well, and after MSCZ got mad over what had happened.  I just, I don't know, I didn't—.  I don't think I was angry at him, but I just felt I wanted to really feel individual and separate.  And, and it had to be literal as well as, uhm, a symbolic thing.  I didn't want him near me physically or touching me or trying to comfort me or anything.  And, and yet I think I wanted to know he would be there, that I didn't want him just pulling away but— (sniff). I don't know, I really felt as if I were holding myself up rigidly and keeping a wall around myself.
And I felt less that way last night but still somewhat that way.  And he wanted to make love last night and I just didn't, and I didn't even want to—, I didn't even—.  Well, I felt a little bit badly knowing he wanted to, but not that badly enough the way I sometimes will in thinking about how would my refusal make him feel.  I just felt I have to keep myself separate and, and apart from him, even then.  And it wouldn't have hap—, I—.  It seems like any kind of making love would have been something else.  Would have gotten me too close.  And then right now I was just, before I started talking I was just thinking that tonight I could possibly make love with him and that I don't feel as strongly that I have to keep myself so separate (sniff).  And yet it seems like it comes from, also feeling less involved with the whole thing that I was talking about yesterday.  (silence)
Z____ another thing comes to my mind that (sniff) it's—, in connection with my family—, it's been on my mind today, too, in this way.  That when I woke up this morning I felt the way I often have when I'm coming down with a cold and—.  I mean I'm not sure yet but I—, and I'm not sure if I can fight it off—, but it just struck me that—, it—.  Sometimes I will get a cold if I'm not getting a lot of sleep, and I haven't the last few nights.  But then there have been other nights when I haven't, and I haven't come down with a cold.  I mean lately.  And it—, I don't know, this one, this seems somehow timed in such a way that when I go home this weekend, if I get one, then I'll go home with a cold and it seems so typical of what used to happen to me a lot.  That when I'd appear at my family's, I'd appear with a cold or some, I don't know, at any—, some kind of illness, uhm.  (pause)
Uhm, I've been thinking about how different members of my family would react.  That when all my other things fail, as I felt they did, then having a cold is sort of the last resort and is bound to be successful to an extent, even if I feel miserable.  And I don't know, I think I've—.  I feel sort of in a dilemma, because I feel as if that's going on in my mind even though consciously I'm thinking that I don't want a cold and I don't want to play that game and, uhm.  And sort of as if, if I get a cold then I'll s_ f_, I feel strongly enough about it so I won't really use it, and I'll c_, sort of cancel out the intent that helped me get it.  Because I can't believe I'm getting it just because it was inevitable.  I don—, I don't know.  Somehow—.  (pause)
And another thing that comes to my mind.  Uh, and I don't know if this has anything to do with it, and whether or not I'm looking for something from MSCZ as a result of feeling as if I'm coming down with a cold.  But, uhm, because I've been crying before I went to sleep Sunday night, and I've had trouble all through my pregnancy with my nose being stuffy, uhm, I think my nose was just stuffy all through the rest of the night, and MSCZ noticed that.  And in the morning—, and he was still being very concerned that I'd been upset.  And I hadn't realized that it was—.  I mean once I got to sleep I wasn't aware of my nose still sounding stuffed up.  (clears throat)  But in the morning he said something about, "You aren't coming down with a cold are you?  You really have to be careful."  But in a concerned way and, uhm.  I'm just wondering now if that gave me an idea to work with and as a result I feel as if I am today.  (silence)
I was just thinking about something that sort of bothered me after I left here yesterday, because of the way I was sort of responding, uhm.  In a way, I almost was thinking I got off the track or something after you drew the parallel between what I'd said on Friday and my feeling on Friday and then my feeling in connection with my family.  And in both cases I could be feeling that what I wanted I wasn't going to get and, and this feeling, too, of sort of I don't have time for you, whoever was involved and, uhm.  And instead of thinking about that parallel—, this is as I remember it—, I don't know.  And I knew you weren't meaning this except I'd started trying to take it this way, as if it both were exactly the same thing.  And all I concentrated on was how I was feeling that they were different.  I don't know, I don't know what it is but there's—, there was something about—.  After I left I kept thinking it was almost as if I were protesting against something, and I'm not sure what it was.  (pause)
ANALYST: What do you suspect?
PATIENT:   Well, I guess in drawing any kind of parallel, I don't know, maybe I wanted to be sure you understood I did not expect what I wanted on Friday to come true, or something like that.  Because I can remember saying that as one of the things I was feeling was different.  (pause)
And it was almost too—.  Along with that, uhm, the other thing I remember saying, that seemed to me different, was this feeling when I thought it Friday of feeling sick or very unhappy about myself, as if I were trying to make it clear to you that even though I had that wish or that thought, I'm punishing myself for it, or I know very well what a bad thing is was, and so you don't need to and—.  As if somehow I'm really denying wha—, what I'd said on Friday.  (pause)
ANALYST:  Well, you know, it seems to me whatever there might be, uh, involved in what you're pointing to, the fact is very clear that you—, you do, uh, really ignore the second part of what I said.  That's the part you really leave out.  (pause)  That's really what you're leaving out, is what that made you think of and how it made you feel.
PATIENT:   (3-minute silence)  All I can think of—.  I mean I realize I hadn't really been thinking about that side of it, but all I think of is another thing that kept occurring to me today which was, uhm, connected with this feeling that I was coming down with a cold.  And, uhm, thinking very much, "Well, tomorrow there'll be nothing I have to go out for, so I can just stay in bed if I want."  And really—, I mean the cold gives me the excuse, but really this feeling of total withdrawal and not even getting up at all.  Trying to work it so I won't have to go out at all or anything.  (2-minute silence)
And the other thing I think which is I feel as if I'm—, I can't think quite directly on this so I keep going off, but I start thinking about—, well really what the parallel you were making yesterday of, uhm, my parents or people in my family not having time for me when I get there.  And, uhm, how I used to—, I don't know when I started admitting it made me mad, but I used to, for a long time, feel the way I think I feel when you cancel now, of sort of I have to accept it kind of feeling.  Or not allowing any emotion to come up at all and—.  (pause)
But I don—, I guess what I—, what I can't get at is I don't really know what to do with thinking about what I did start thinking on Friday after you cancelled, even though I wasn't admitting any kind of feelings then, of anger or anything.  (pause)
Well, I was just thinking that one of the things it seemed to me I wanted particularly when up to my parents any time, and especially this time was special attention from, well, the—, my family, not just my parents.  And, uhm, it makes me think again of how on Friday what I was—, what I ended up saying was I wanted your penis inside me.  And it reminds me of a time earlier, but recently, when I was talking about wanting special attention from you and, I don't know, it, it seemed like one way to have it and feel sure of it was that if you were making love to me or something like that it would indicate special attention.  And this time when I think of it, it seems, uhm, uh, eh, almost a reverse kind of thing that it would be almost a way I could possess you somehow or—.  (pause)  Uh, or I mean I guess kind of a combination of thinking that somehow if you're making love to me then you can't be giving attention to anyone else and—.  In that way I'd be possessing you or—.  I don't know, but there's something of—, it's the exact opposite of your cancelling and going away.
ANALYST: Going away?
PATIENT:   Well, uh, I guess that's what I think.  I hadn't thou—.
ANALYST: But that's the point.  You really haven't said what you think.
PATIENT:   Mm.  Well, I hadn't realized I did.  (silence)
I don't know, for some reason thinking about what I think, in terms of your cancelling, I guess it must make me feel very defensive or something.  Because when you just said what you did, I felt very angry with you, as if, well, I'm trying.  But, but, I don't know, underneath it I feel as if it's really because I'm feeling that I have to protect myself against something.  (pause)
I don't know whether it's in what I think or if it's in what I'm not letting myself think.  But, uhm, when, when I say "going away" I think it's because the only thing I let myself think about when you cancel is that you must be going away to a convention or something like that, some kind of a thing connected with your work.  (pause)
And, and I don't know, it seems that that's the safest thing to think.  That somehow I can accept because it was the attitude in my family that work came first, and— (sniff).  Bu—, but I don't know if that's—, if I'm afraid of finding out that it's for another reason or—.  Or if somehow thinking abou—, thinking of it in that way, it leads me into thinking of a little, almost like a memorized line that I've used with myself all through my life to not be bothered my things like that when my family, too, was not giving me the attention I wanted and—.  And as long as I kind of repeat the known line I'm OK.  (2-minute silence)
I was just thinking, another thing I was doing that—, when I came today, that seems like I've done it before, not maybe every single time, but often if you're cancelling.  And that is to kind of be thinking about—, well, I've already said in terms of thinking what I could do if you cancelled, uhm, back on Friday when you cancelled.  But, but also just coming here tonight sort of thinking just simply in terms of, sort of, it'll be nice not to be coming at this hour for two days, not to have to come and sort of like I'm thinking, "Well, I don't like coming anyway, so it doesn't matter."  (pause)
ANALYST: Then you might welcome it.
PATIENT:   But I don't think I do.  (silence)
Now I'm not sure what I'm feeling, because what said—, said to me that m_ maybe you really don't like coming honestly, and that you're happy that I'm cancelling at least 2 times and—.  And that thought makes me—, I don't know, makes me feel afraid enough so I—.  It's almost as if I rather think about feeling upset that you cancelled than to think that.  (pause)
But I don't know, I mean even though I think I really do have a fear of ever admitting feeling that I don't always like coming or be—, I don't know, because somehow I don't believe it's a feeling I have about every single time, or that that's part of the reaction I'm having now.  I was just thinking of a f_, sort of a fantasy I was having coming here today, too, in line with what I've just said, that makes me feel that somehow today my feelings are all sort of at—, almost like getting back at you for tomorrow or the next day.  Because, uhm, when I got on the subway, before I got on, I mean as the train came in the station, I checked and it was the right one, but then I hadn't checked again.  And when I got on I suddenly thought what if I'm on the wrong car.  And then I just had this fantasy about being on the wrong train and getting off, because it takes me way off the way I have to come for here. And, uhm, then just thinking I wouldn't be able to handle it and I'd have to call and say I couldn't make it, even though other times I have— well, the one other time when I took the wrong train, my attitude was to handle it.  But today my attitude was well then that will be sort of a reason to cancel on you first almost.  Before you do on me tomorrow (sniff).
ANALYST: Well, that fits with, uh, the notion I've been having, but I couldn't understand right away.  Because when you're describing your feeling this total withdrawal and imagining yourself holing up in bed at home, in this context of you feel your family has rejected you and they don't care about you and they don't love you and they don't care whether you come to PNOTS or whether they see you or whatever, I keep thinking of how you must have felt when you were thinking of, eh, committing suicide, and the fantasy you used to have:  "Then they'll be sorry."  And in a sense, what you call total withdrawal was a sort of a symb—, a way of saying something the same thing.  In this fantasy, uh, it does indeed sound like you were tempted to do the same thing to me.  But you have to hide it.  You can't simply get mad at your family or mad at me.  Instead you withdraw, and feel you're getting sick, as maybe you are.  But what it seems to mean to you is both a plea for sympathy and as saying "look what you've done to me."  It's an accusation.  All indirect.
PATIENT:   (pause)  It's funny.  That makes me think of, uhm, (sniff) I guess it's a fantasy.  Another thing that—, I don't know when I was thinking of it, whether it was after yesterday or before yesterday, about how (sniff) what I'd love to be able to do is to just be with my family sometime and sit down and—.  I don't know, it was—, I guess it was more in terms of whenever we'd be going up to stay with my parents, but just—.  But in particular in terms of the way they will often just go off and leave us, and I don't know, just somehow I'm—.  I can't remember now exactly what I thought I'd say, but (hesitates) in some way say it directly, whatever it is that—.  I mean these feelings I have about feeling angry when they don't give me the kind of attention I want and—.  Well, I think the fantasy was a way for me to feel I'd be asserting myself, but— (sniff).  I almost felt as if I could do whatever it was, you know, and, and saying whatever I would say about how I didn't like things, then maybe I wouldn't care so much.  (pause)
But, eh, eh, and this was something that was partially on my mind (sniff), when earlier I was saying that it seemed like now at least I could admit to myself feeling angry, not directly to my parent, but to myself at least, after talking to my parent, uhm, over this type of situation.  But I can't here with you, I mean when it's just involving you and me and—.  And it just comes to my mind again, it seems rather odd when (sniff) in the end you find out more about me or know more anyway, and I'm saying many more things than I'd ever dream of saying to my parents.  And yet I still—. I feel almost as if I'm being more indirect with you than with them.  (pause)
 And it makes me think again of (sniff) when I was saying about—, when I was bothered by protesting about the parallel you drew yesterday and the part I was concentrating on.  Because, uh, eh, in thinking about being more indirect with you, it seems I— (sniff).  Really in a way with my family I could admit it more now, although perhaps on the surface the way I act is not dissimilar.  But I can admit it to myself, because somehow I feel that my problem is now to accept the way things are and (sniff) that I'm not going to get what I want.  Whereas maybe in the end with you I'm thinking I can't afford to be direct because maybe there's hope I'll get what I want.
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
