TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Would you mind turning the temperature down a little bit?
THERAPIST: Oh, no. Not at all.
CLIENT: It's a little hot. 
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Maybe it's the walk (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Thanks. So (inaudible) been really nice to me or are really nice to me, and that's good. But I—the last day—I meant to (inaudible) this yesterday, I don't know. This—I've been having another kind of—that same reaction of, "I am a horrible person," pretty strongly. Yeah, I just—I just feel horrible. (pause) And I don't really know what to do with it, so—it's just there.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:01:07]
CLIENT: People are very loving to me and I don't know why. (pause) Or it's just—it's just—seems wrong. You know, and I've talked about this before and it—one of the things that doesn't like—it doesn't seem useful to—I know (laughs). I know (laughs).
THERAPIST: (laughs) Ok.
CLIENT: No, you can say whatever you need to say. But I—it just doesn't seem useful to talk about it. It's like, "Well, it's a thing, it doesn't go away." Sometimes I feel it more than others. Yesterday and today are just those times. Yeah. James's still involved with—he's got—he sent me a housewarming gift. It was a pottery bowl. And I like love handmade pottery, like love it. (pause) And it just—it makes—just makes me feel worse about this all. I just—I just feel like this is all wrong. (pause) Yeah. I—I had a drink with my friend Joshua yesterday. He's a guy who's in the same year as I am in the—in my department, who's—I'm—I'm friends with. He's been gone most of the summer and now he's back in town, so—I had been planning to hang—hang out and then I lost my planner. So he e-mailed me and I called him back, and we got together and it was nice, you know? He's like—he's a good friend. He really likes me, which is weird and nice, but weird. Yeah. It's nice, because like—you know, we caught up on department stuff and talk—you know, talked about the field and I—I could talk about it with him and didn't feel like—you know, I don't feel like—I don't feel like he's judging me for, you know, taking a year off or whatever. And then we—and then—and I was walking back—we go back passed—you go right passed the department, and they were—he was going to a meet and greet thing. And so we met up with another student who was in our year and kind of talked a little bit, and then they went off and I went back up the Street and passed another woman, who's a year ahead of me. And it just—both encounters just—it just made me feel really bad. (pause) I don't know—mostly I think coming from me, but it felt like it was coming from them. Does that make sense? (laughs) [00:04:46]
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: It doesn't help that this woman that I ran into, she—she just passed her comps, and I really don't like her. And there's not a good reason for it. Like, I find her annoying, and kind of vapid, and not that smart and not very interesting, and kind of whiny and self-satisfied. All of which are things that are, like, maybe decent reasons not to like somebody, but not—really, she—she's not a bad person.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: You know, she's kind and does her best and is, you know, is kind of cute, and you know, has friends, and—I don't know. She's a good person. So I feel kind of guilty about the fact that I just don't want to spend any time with her (laughs).
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:05:46]
CLIENT: You know, I had like—I had finally just like (inaudible)to unsubscribe to her Facebook feed, because I was just like, "Tanya, you don't want"—like, it just makes me irritated to read what she has to say. It just irritates me or makes me sad. But all I think is like why—she's not very smart. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Which is—and more than that, she doesn't work very hard. But like she doesn't really know herself that much.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: She kind of shouldn't be in the program. But she passed her comps and -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: —now she's, you know, moving with her husband and she's going to write her dissertation, and—and that's hard for me. And yeah, I'm pretty jealous of her. 
THERAPIST: Yep. [00:06:48]
CLIENT: I don't want to be jealous of her, but I am very jealous of her. (pause) You know, and—I also—I mean I feel badly for her as she said—and I asked her—you know, I said, "Congratulations on your exams." It's like -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —a huge deal. And she goes, "Yeah, you know, they pass you and then they make you feel like a horrible person." And I was like, "Yeah, I know, but they passed you." So I don't think she passed well.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Which, honestly, I think, is fair. But I think that's, you know -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: —that is—was what was going to happen, like, it's the right thing to do. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: She's definitely paid her dues in some ways.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh, yeah. [00:07:43]
CLIENT: But (pause) you know, I am paying my dues, also. It just looks different. (pause) Yeah, I just wish—you know, I just keep thinking, "It's not fair that I didn't"—I mean—no, it's not fair. Oh, well. (laughs) That's just—that's just a fact. (pause) Yeah, I just wish it were different. (cries) You know, I'm feeling really sorry for myself in this way. And then the counter to it, that kind of—you know, the back and forth is that then I—I say, "No, but you're horrible. It's not—it is fair for this to be happening to you. What's not fair is—are the good things. That's what's not fair."
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:09:36] 
CLIENT: You know, so, "How dare you feel sorry for yourself." And that pushes back. (cries) (pause) And I just—and I—I mean, to use King James language, I feel like an abomination. King James language is good for some things.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) Although it's not—it's not—I don't use it very often because, like, actually that's a technical term and it doesn't fit, like, the way I'm using it is not in the technical way. So I—(laughs)
THERAPIST: Using (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yes (laughs). [00:11:07]
THERAPIST: What does it mean, technically?
CLIENT: Oh—I—I think it—I'm trying to remember. I think it tends to refer to—I think it has to do with worshipping idols. So it has to do with—with—with material things, usually, that are part of—when you're worshipping idols—that are part of religious cults other than the Yahweh cult.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Those things are referred to as -
CLIENT: Yeah, but it might be—it might be referring to the type of sin—and more generally, the type of sin that gets you cut off—or your defendants—no—that gets you cut off with no defendants and expelled from the land, rather than the type of sin that's actually just purity stuff. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It's like—yeah. The type of sin that like has to do with ethics rather than to do with ritual.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: So it's not actually that bad (laughs). (pause) But the two types of sin get—particularly in later—things get muddy because people start using purity language metaphorically.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:12:56]
CLIENT: And you know, pretty—in later texts of the bible, so much—like a lot of prophets will use them—it—it metaphorically, and so -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —you know? Yeah. (pause) It's a cool topic. I worked on it in undergrad.
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: Yeah, and my masters, so—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —it was like, you know, one of the things that I thought I wanted to do and then realized that the people who were doing like upper level work were—it was really boring.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: The cool stuff has kind of already been done.
THERAPIST: I see. So it's not what the cool kids are doing anymore?
CLIENT: No, no. (pause) Plus, the guy who does it is a jackass, so I don't want to roll with him.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:13:55]
CLIENT: (laughs) (pause) Yeah, you know, the—the thing that I've been talking about with—the religious get all caught up in this. Or maybe it's the other way around, so—and that is—is—it's the same question, like—you know, it's ridiculous to think that I am the only person who doesn't deserve to exist. But there it is, it doesn't go away. (pause) I feel like this move is going to be hard and I feel like -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:16:04]
CLIENT: —I'm not—I've been (inaudible) and—like I'm not going to be able to keep it together enough. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I think some of the other things you're saying—you're doing today (pause) point to how the—it's undeserving, but in a way, it seems almost like scandalous. It feels that like something so good should be happening to you. [00:17:53]
CLIENT: Hmm. (pause) Yeah. Everybody's like rooting for me. (pause)
THERAPIST: All the stuff is just working out. 
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: Stuff's just working out.
CLIENT: (laughs) I guess. You know, stuff doesn't just work out, people make it work out. 
THERAPIST: Ok. [00:18:48]
CLIENT: (laughs) (pause) I had to list Dan as a reference, so I need to write to him and tell him that I've done that. And I'll send him (inaudible) tell him that (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. 
CLIENT: Which he'll be glad to hear. I—I've been thinking about him. [00:20:11]
THERAPIST: What have you been thinking?
CLIENT: I don't know. Back and forth. Missing him, staying angry with him, not missing him (laughs). (pause) I'm wondering what happens now. I'm pretty sure what happens now is up to me. Or rather, I have to make the decision and do it, which I guess is not quite the same thing. 
THERAPIST: What are you referring to?
CLIENT: Like, the extent to which he and I are going to be in contact and write each other (ph). (pause) I don't know. I don't know what—the thing to do. I think—I think the thing to do is just not really to be in contact with him. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:21:28]
CLIENT: But that's hard. Well, a lot easier than breaking James's heart again, so—there you go. (pause)
THERAPIST: So when you are in the throes of feeling loved by him, and the ways that he made you feel that way, did that soothe your feeling so unworthy?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Not totally. (pause) But in some ways, yeah. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It was more like—like, being loved like that is the kind of gift that nobody deserves -
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: —but nobody deserves that—but it was ok for me to accept it. (pause) You know (pause) I don't know. I mean, just—I guess what I'm saying is to some extent I think everybody is unworthy of that—of that kind of love, or just -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:23:31]
CLIENT: —love. But -
THERAPIST: So that would be -
CLIENT: —I did for -
THERAPIST: —put you in the same category as everybody else?
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. (pause)
THERAPIST: Which is not all a great deal, though?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) You know, it's like—the people who love me, I—I sort of get used to them or whatever, and I kind of assimilated—you know, when somebody new is like—like—decides to care about me that's a, "Oh!" You know, for a while I see myself the way that they see me. Or not quite the way that they see me. But -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: —I think—I think that's a problem (laughs).
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: (pause) In that it makes people, I don't know, a means, not ends. It—it makes people—I like that they care about me, not because I care about them—well, usually I do care about them, but because they make me feel a certain way about myself. They—they let me look at my—you know, I use them in that way.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:25:21]
CLIENT: I mean, it's when I always meet new people. And that's not good.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. (pause) It makes me think of a kind of—like an uneasy truce with yourself or compromise, where you can kind of tolerate being loved as long as it sort of doesn't quite mean the same thing to you after a while, or the poignance of it doesn't feel quite the same as it does at first.
CLIENT: Maybe. I don't know. (pause) Maybe. 
THERAPIST: Maybe before I could say it—doesn't feel the same way as it does at first, but -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —(inaudible).
CLIENT: But I -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: —but I mean, like, so (inaudible) already feels fantastic to me -
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [00:26:31]
CLIENT: —and they're so great and they really like me. And that is really a problem. Like, I can't deal—I—that's as much or more of a problem than the ways that everybody else is being loving to me right now. So you know—(pause) you know, I—when I'm—at times when I'm doing well, it just seems natural that, you know, James should love me the way he does.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It just works. (pause) I don't know. (pause) I don't know why I actually think that nobody deserves that kind of—I mean, I'm just thinking about the ways that I love people, and the people whom I love. And I would—all of them—well, yeah, absolutely they deserve that. Absolutely. Maybe I just like more abstract—nobody—you know, nobody has ever—nobody is good enough for it all the time. 
THERAPIST: Hmm. [00:29:15]
CLIENT: (pause) I think I'll have that (inaudible). (pause) 
THERAPIST: How do you know they will—people will (inaudible) when they will?
CLIENT: That's a good question, because people love -
THERAPIST: They don't deserve (inaudible)?
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, exactly. Two-year-olds are horrible, and they're also like so loveable at the same time. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Two-year-olds aren't horrible.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: Two-year-olds aren't that horrible. [00:30:16]
CLIENT: Well, I know the—the best times of my life was—I spent the summer after I graduated from college baby—oh, no. After teaching, before starting grad school, babysitting a 3 year old and a 4 and 1/2 year old, who were just the most wonderful kids. Like, just so wonderful. And I'm friends with their mom on Facebook, so she posts about them a—of them a lot, and you know, now they're like—they're older. And on this—well, it's—they're two different families, like (inaudible) hire you into there. And yeah, it was funny because, like, I definitely cared about one of the kids more than about the other, and—in that, I mean, the one girl was just kind of a brat (laughs). Like, she was working on it. She was—you know, she—she—she would throw tantrums and I was—we worked on the—dealing with it. But yeah, it was so (inaudible)—I don't know. But in an abstract sense, I'd have to say no, in the same way that nobody deserves it. I don't know. I don't know. (pause) Yes and no. (pause) 
THERAPIST: So tell me about the two or three or four year olds who don't? [00:32:07]
CLIENT: I mean, it—you don't love a child because of what it—or what she or he does. 
THERAPIST: True.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But you can't not—it's—it's—you know, it's diff—most people just love children. I think children—I don't—I don't know.
THERAPIST: I'm not getting the part where the little kid -
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: —is deserving -
CLIENT: I mean, in—in—in the sense of like—you know, if you—if you love somebody based on what they act like and what they do and what they—who they are around you, then I think most small children are not very loveable (laughs). You know, they're beasts, but that's not why we love them. Well, you know, and they also—they also do things that are so horrible -
THERAPIST: (inaudible) yeah. [00:33:30]
CLIENT: —yeah, so—so I don't know. Calling my bluff (laughs). Yeah. (pause) Maybe it's just—I like individual children (laughs) more than children as a collective (laughs). But I guess that's exactly the point, that, you know, I don't say, you know, I like kids. But most are all small children that I need—I end up really loving. But that's because of the individual. It's not because there's something about being a small child, necessarily. Maybe there—I'm sure there is. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: (laughs) 
CLIENT: You're mixing me up (laughs).
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: I'm totally going to say that on you (ph), even though it's not at all. [00:34:34]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) 
THERAPIST: What are some other things that you wind up loving about the little kids you have?
CLIENT: They're really open, really smart, really fun. You know, they make up games and want to play them over, and over, and over again. And the things that they liked in me were totally different than the things either that I like in myself or that I would expect small children to like in me. You can watch them growing, which is awesome. Like, within the span of three months, like, it's a huge change. Yeah. (pause) You know, they're learning how to be people, and I think that's really wonderful. (pause) Yeah. And they love you and they tell you that, and it's just easy for them to say that they love you. That's wonderful. (pause) [00:36:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think you have this fantasy about contingency -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —that you're—at least, as we're talking about little kids, I think, pretty clearly, to loving a person to actually maintain. Like, in other words, the fantasy breaks down, I think, when you think about actual little kids and the fact that -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —you know, it wasn't because they used a big word or they thought of a cool game, or because they could do something one day that they couldn't do another day. Like, those may all be part of it, and part of how you feel loving towards them, but yeah, I don't—I'm not buying the contingency thing the more you talk about it. I didn't really think it was true beforehand but -
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: —but I—especially -
CLIENT: You know—ok. So I—
THERAPIST: So I -
CLIENT: I don't understand. I mean, I—
THERAPIST: Umm -
CLIENT: I—sorry. [00:37:21]
THERAPIST: No, that's fine. I'm trying to (inaudible). 
CLIENT: (cries) 
THERAPIST: I don't really know how to put it all together, but to me this seems not that distantly related to how contingent you feel it is about yourself, as well. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean, clearly, I just don't—(pause) yeah. I mean, I followed you so far. I—it's just that—the ways I feel about myself and the ways I feel about love are a—you know, that they are contingent—that—that—that is clearly, you know, a fantasy, but I don't—I don't quite see how it works and I don't see what else to put there. You know? (pause) You know, this is always where I get stuck. (cries) I say, "Well, the way that I'm thinking is not working." It's not—it's—it's not right, but I don't know what else to put there and I don't—I can't figure it out enough, you know, to—to make it stop—or to stop thinking about—(pause) 
THERAPIST: I guess there is something pretty frightening for you about being loved like kind of without condition or a contingency. [00:41:06]
CLIENT: I guess so. (pause) Unbelievable, also. It's—I don't—it doesn't register. You know, I know that that's just how people love me, but it doesn't -
THERAPIST: Feel like that?
CLIENT: —feel like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Or you wouldn't necessarily see yourself that way, as two, or three, or four-year-old. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: We should stop. I hope things go well with the move. [00:42:02]
CLIENT: Thanks. It's always an adventure.
THERAPIST: Sure. All right. Take care and I'll see you on Tuesday.
CLIENT: Have a good one.
END TRANSCRIPT
