TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: My roommates want to get a cat. (laughs) We went out for drinks last night and stayed out totally too late. None of us really had anywhere to be this morning, except Wes had to be at therapy at 9:30, so I'm not sure how that intake appointment is going to go. (laughs) I'm sure he'll be fine. It was really wonderful and, I think, there was a lot of bonding. It was just really nice. They really want to get a cat and I really, really, really want a cat and have for a long time. (voice breaking) I don't know. Other things with a cat and I'm really afraid of that responsibility. James is probably allergic to cat dandruff. His family has cats and he has allergies when he goes home, but they're not super bad. It's unclear whether he's allergic to the cat or something else, or just how he could manage that. I think we could manage it if we didn't leave the cat in my room. The apartment is big enough that it would . . . So it turned into this weird situation where I was the one really putting the brakes on, but I really, really want a cat. [00:02:15] 
Also, we're not allowed to have cats in the lease unless the landlord gives permission, which he's not going to give permission. He's kind of a slumlord anyway so it's like, "Is he really going to evict us over a cat?" If he evicted us he would have to paint the apartment, repair everything and do all of the things that he's been able to avoid doing because he's had the same rotating group of people from the government department living in that apartment for the last six years. He apparently hasn't been to the apartment in five years. He's probably not going to care. It concerns me a little bit, but it really concerns James. James and I had a fight last night and it turned into this thing where . . . I don't know. After half an hour he called me and said, "You had spent the last few hours being drunk and fairly happy, and now you're just really depressed. I feel like I do that to you when we talk." It's true. I was depressed after talking to him for half an hour. (voice breaks) (pause) [00:03:43]
I'm just really confused right now. It's like what do I tell these boys? (laughs)(sniffles) It was very much like a "sharing" evening, like a "sharing-probably-way-too-much" evening, but—whatever. I already share everything so (laughs) it's not going to bother me. I think Wes, the one that I haven't really talked to, is a little shy and also really lonely and really, really needs or wants affection; but it's hard for him to ask for it so he basically got drunk and was like, "I just want you all to love me." (laughs) This is what alcohol is for. (both laugh) Glad we're on the same page here. (pause) [00:04:57] They just push all of my protective and responsible buttons of "I really want to take care of them." (voice breaks) (sniffles) (laughs) At one point they both left to go to the bathroom and there is Nick (ph) staring at his face. They came back and I was like, "I just realized I'm totally going to be your mom. And it's worse—I'm going to like it. This is horrible." (both laugh) (crying) (pause) I don't really know what's going on but I'm really upset. (sniffles) On the one hand, I don't want to be the one who is pushing back on something I really like. On the other hand, I don't have any idea of what pet ownership entails or can entail. I was like, "Do you guys have $3,000 to drop if the cat needs a surgery? Do you? Because sometimes it just happens and then you have to make a choice to spend $3,000 or let your pet die. Are you ready for that?" [00:06:33] Obviously, I don't know. But then there are two of them and one of me and I don't . . . (pause) (sniffles) . . . and it's not like they're ganging up on me. They both seem to think I have veto power, but I also don't want to be the person in charge. (pause) (crying) [00:07:40] So right now, I think, as it stands as of this morning, I was hoping they would forget about it, but the first thing Eric (ph) said to me when I came in the room this morning was, "Kitty." (both laugh) It's kind of like, "Well, it will be your-guys' cat and I will help you take care of it. Eric is like, 'So the responsibility is on us?'" And I was like, "Yes," then I felt bad about that. (pause) (crying) And James and I had to fight about it and I don't . . . (crying) It feels like I'm expecting myself or feel like James is expecting me to live my life according to his values, rather than according to mine. If I were not with James, I would not give a shit about the lease. I would say, "Yep. A risk I'm willing to take. Not really a big deal. (chuckles) He's a crappy landlord anyway and we're putting up with that, so I feel fine." [00:09:01] (pause) 
The voice in my head that sounds like James is also really sensible and, most of the time, keeps me from getting into bad situations. (pause) I don't know. (pause) I'm trying to remember what he said. He said something that he feels like this happens with other people in his life. I think, basically, James really tries to protect people in his life and really wants to keep them from making what he views as bad decisions; but also doesn't want to take away their agencies (ph). But there was already a conflict. (pause) (sniffles) [00:10:54] I feel like this roommate situation could be really, really good. I feel like we could be really good friends, but I don't want the friendship and affection that could be there to replace the affection that James and I have. I can't have that, but I'm worried that it will maybe or that I will let it. (pause) Things started going downhill in my conversation with James like three minutes in. I was like, "Ha-ha-ha-ha. We had so much fun." Eric does a lot of drugs, as it turns out, and James was like, "I really wish you hadn't told me that because I really wish he hadn't told you that; because now you can be an accessory if he has drugs in that apartment." That's such a remote possibility, but that is the way James thinks. He's that risk-averse. It was just like, "Oh, now I need to stop talking about how much fun these guys are and suddenly talk about how I need to handle the possibility that there will probably be a lot of coke in my apartment." (voice waivers) Not heroin, anyway. [00:13:15] (laughs) Thank goodness for small favors. (pause) We didn't resolve it last night. I just said, "We're tired. I don't know what's going on. Let's just go to bed." (pause) (crying) [00:14:36] I guess I'm upset with James, but I don't know most times. It's really sad. I feel like it's something that I'm used to. When things go wrong between us, it's something that I need to figure out about myself and then we'll go back into bounds; but I feel like this kind of something that's with James and that he needs to figure out. I don't know how to tell him that and I don't know how to let him do that, you know? And I don't know whether it is for me to figure out. I'm not him. I'm probably a bad person for him to talk through it with. (pause) I said, "We try to control things. We try to protect ourselves from things going badly, but we can't protect ourselves from things going badly." And he said, "Yes, that's true, but in this case, here is something that we can protect ourselves from," which is true; but I kind of think that both the desire to have a good relationship with my roommates and that I really want a pet outweighs the risk, now that I think about it. (pause) (crying) [00:17:40]
THERAPIST: Do you think this is because you're feeling so far away from James on this?
CLIENT: Among other things. Having a pet and not being able to handle her, really, really is a problem for me. It really broke my heart and I feel really bad about it still. (crying) I don't want to do that again. I feel like I don't deserve to have a pet [ ], (inaudible at 00:18:27) which I know isn't actually true. A cat is very different from a beagle. (laughs) They are very different. And I did have a cat for a summer in college. We babysat a cat for some random girl who was taking off for the summer and was like, "Here. Here's my cat." (laughs) I was like, "Okay." And it was fine. Plus she was lovely. (pause) [00:19:19] Feeling far away from James. It's something more specific that I can't articulate. He puts the breaks on things a lot. When I'm excited about something, he puts the breaks on. Not because he doesn't want me to be excited about it—he really likes when I'm excited—but he sees danger ahead and he immediately has to say, "Wait about this. Talk about this. Focus on what might go wrong." That has good things and really bad things about it. (pause) [00:21:06] 
Even when I say that I think, "I can't afford for (sniggers) too many things to go wrong." But then it's like, "Well, I clearly can afford it because things have been going wrong for a long time." (laughs) They've gone really wrong. (crying) (pause) [00:22:06] Good news. I'm not going to fall in love with either of my roommates. Excellent. (both laugh) One of them is gay and the other one is Eric. (both laugh) That's kind of a relief. [And I don't think they will.] (ph at 00:22:28) (pause) It is crazy how much I just want to take care of them. This should not be surprising. James doesn't want people to take care of him. (pause) I do sometimes in little ways, but I don't think it's very important for him. (sniffles) The other night he was talking about the shadow of ultimately not being sure what he was going to do and so on to end his crisis. He was just feeling bad about himself for being in this situation and for having these moral qualms that nobody else in the world seems to care about. And I just said, "No. It's okay. Speak the truth. Come what may and cost what it will. That's what you do. That's what you should be doing." I think that was a great comfort to him. He said, "Sometimes you just say exactly the right thing." [00:24:43] That's about it. That's not about it, but it feels like it. The ways that I can take care of him are so subtle and require a lot of attention on my part, so when I'm depressed it's hard for me to do that. I feel like I'm not or I don't when I'm depressed. He feels like I don't take care of him when I'm depressed. (pause) [00:26:01]
THERAPIST: Maybe taking care of people is, for you, part of the way you love them.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It feels kind of good to them and good about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. (crying) (pause) I don't know whether it's just whether I'm used to thinking that James doesn't want that from me or something. I don't know. I don't know. [00:27:26]
THERAPIST: I expect that feels like a rejection to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. He's so risk-averse and it is risky for him to rely on me. (laughs) We live near the  Square and walk to the other Square. It's like a 10-minute walk. We're [ ]. (inaudible at 00:28:15) Eric was like, "There's a swing set. You guys want to go down the slide?" (both laugh) In front of a church. I was like, "No. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. I'm wearing a dress, guys. No." And he went down the slide and they made me go down the slide and they're like, "C'mon, Tanya." (laughs) (sniffles) I am terrified of getting caught playing on the swing set while I'm drunk. That thought terrifies me. (laughs) [00:28:59]
THERAPIST: You mean getting caught?
CLIENT: Just somebody walking by and being like, "What the hell?"
THERAPIST: Like some random person? Somebody you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. Some random person. Like a policeman. I'm more actually—they wouldn't do anything other than yell at us.
THERAPIST: They probably wouldn't even yell at you. People might walk by and smile. Sorry about that.
CLIENT: But, anyway. (chuckles) I'm terrified. (pause) (sniffles) They might take some getting used to. [00:29:47]
THERAPIST: Yes. [Having a good time.] (inaudible at 00:29:45) Exactly. 
CLIENT: (crying) I follow rules. 
THERAPIST: You are terrified of that?
CLIENT: Yeah. I did it. It was fun in a way. I'm not going to do it again. (pause) Things with James are confused. I don't know how to get back on the same page with him. We're both moving in parallel, sort of. We're both changing and thinking and working. I don't know how to tell him what's going on with me. I don't know how to understand where he is, partly because he doesn't talk about it. Also I feel like I just don't understand. (pause) [00:33:15] I want him to be able to stop carrying me. (pause) Part of it is he doesn't feel like he can talk openly about the ways that I am a burden on me, but I know that he doesn't feel that way.
THERAPIST: Wait, I'm sorry. I think you just made a slip which I don't generally make a fuss over, but I want to be sure I didn't just understand. You talked about his having trouble talking and you said about the ways that "I am a burden on me". I thought you were going to say you were a burden on him?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I meant to say. That's why I fill in the gaps . . . 
THERAPIST: Oh, yes you do.
CLIENT: I can't know whether I'm filling them in with what he's actually thinking. (pause) How do I start to say that he needs to change? Everything I can think of starts with, "I need you to do this," but the whole point is that I need him so much and that's part of the problem. I don't know. I feel like our whole dynamic has centered around what I need for so long, part of what I need is to care about what he needs—for him to tell me what he needs. But then it's still about me. (crying) (pause) I try to just let him deal with things in the way that works best for him, but that's not really working. (pause) [00:37:28]
THERAPIST: Maybe you're finding him incredibly difficult, hard to work with, and maybe in that sense kind of stubborn, kind of a pain.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (pause) Stubborn in his insistence on, I don't know, being really nice to me most of the time. Yeah, he is kind of a pain. 
THERAPIST: Stubborn for the ways he won't lean on you or make use of you or let you take care of him or push back when he's upset with you or not take care of you when it feels too much for him sometimes?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not sure about that last one, but everything else, yeah. (pause) [00:39:44]
THERAPIST: And being a pain in the way that he presents a lot of stuff as being about you and not about him?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which [ ] (overlapping voices at 00:40:07) 
CLIENT: I am sure he thinks it's about me and not about him.
THERAPIST: And I think you generally do, too.
CLIENT: That may be true.
THERAPIST: I think, and this may not be quite right, but I think you're trying to bring this up with him. When I stop and think about it, the call with him sounds a little like a set-up. If somebody had interviewed you the minute before you picked up the phone and asked, "How is he going to respond about the cat? How is he going to respond about you just being out getting trashed with your roommates? How is he going to respond about your roommate doing drugs?" you probably would have guessed. No? [00:41:43]
CLIENT: No. I really wouldn't have.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. That's my mistake.
CLIENT: I knew he wasn't going to be thrilled about the cat not being allowed under the lease, but he's said many times, "Maybe we should get you a cat because it seems [to really help you through."] (inaudible at 00:42:05) 
THERAPIST: All right. You were referring to how risk-averse he is and how cautious he is.
CLIENT: No, I didn't see that coming. The thing about the drugs was like I don't f**king know. I wasn't expecting that at all. That was completely out of left field. I was just happy rambling and suddenly he was like (slapping sound), "Stop." Now I feel like I can't say anything else.
THERAPIST: I see. It sounds like I'm just really misunderstanding.
CLIENT: I have been trying to tell him that I need him to lean on me more. Not very successfully. Partly I'm not entirely sure that people should be leaning on me.
THERAPIST: Or maybe . . . (both laugh) . . . maybe some of it's his problem that he doesn't. [00:43:31]
CLIENT: Oh, I know. I know. 
THERAPIST: [ ] (crosstalk at 00:43:36) you're going to talk about is the part about how it's their problem. That may be overdoing it, but I'm thinking you want me to say it. You don't seem to have any concerns about mothering your roommates.
CLIENT: They really want me to mother them, is the thing. They really, really want someone to take care of them. What's part of what is making this clear is that feels so good. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And not scary. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Again, I'm sort of speculating here, but the reason you're not saying, "Oh, my God, what if they need me one night and it's a tough night for me and I'm upset and I can't be there for them," which I think is the sort of thing you're worried about with James. "Oh, my God, what if he needs me at some point and wants to lean on me and I can't do it right then." I'm not saying those are exactly the same but . . . We can stop for now. We can talk more about it tomorrow.
END TRANSCRIPT
