TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Side 1, Track 1, December 9th, December 9th, Austin counselor, Interview 6, Interview 6. Client 1927-1112, Interview 6, Side 1, Track 1.
PATIENT: I don't know when to start at today. I'm feeling very depressed right now.
COUNSELOR: How's that?
PATIENT: Well, it's funny. Well, it's not really funny. My car... I have a two-year-old car and I think I...
COUNSELOR: You have a what?
PATIENT: Two-year-old car. And I think I need a new engine and I'm very depressed.
COUNSELOR: I suggest the car does sound like something to be depressed about.
PATIENT: Yeah, it is. It's going to cost a lot of money.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know.
PATIENT: I'm very unhappy about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I...
COUNSELOR: You don't expect it with a two-year-old car.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: You wouldn't expect it with a two-year-old car.
PATIENT: Not with a Honda, no, but it's - it upsets me. I'd like to go back I guess to what we were talking about at the end of last week, but I'm not really sure what it was now. Do you remember?
COUNSELOR: It sounds like where you are right now (cross talk).
PATIENT: Maybe that's why. 0:02:13.7
COUNSELOR: What were we talking about?
PATIENT: Oh yeah, I remember now. The whole thing that I don't...
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're not very happy about remembering.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, it did sound that way, yeah, yeah. I remember the, you know... I had told you that I felt like you had rejected me and I felt depressed and then too, and then right when we were terminating it you gave me something and we talked about it; in a way I think the aim of therapy from your therapeutic approach and... I left feeling better than I had felt while I was in here, maybe because you gave me that and maybe because it gave me something to think about. 
But I guess what we ended with was the fact that I got the feeling that, from what you had said, that kind of like you were helping provide kind of an environment to feel feelings and realize that it's okay and safe to feel that, and that the experience of feeling them here in a way in which I as the client can handle it should carry over and then I would feel freer to feel them outside, then I can sense where we left. I remember feeling good when we left, but now that I think about it I don't know why I felt good. 0:04:21.1
COUNSELOR: You somehow kind of then did. It felt good to know that the way that...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Don't have that feeling right now, remembering it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Had the content but not the feeling of it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Doesn't do much for you now.
PATIENT: No, but that's okay. It did something for me then. Well, things have been going along pretty good and I've been feeling pretty good.
COUNSELOR: In what way? What I'm asking, I guess, is for you to say more about it.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I think that my wife and I have been communicating a lot better. And we really haven't had that much more time together, you know, I [described out or out] (ph). I don't think we've really had that much more time together, but it's been more meaningful when we were together and it's been more enjoyable and that time that we spent together created more of a feeling of fulfillment, so it was time well used, even though there wasn't a real bond. And it's really hard for me to be more specific, because I can't think of things to be... 0:06:16.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Also I guess it is hard because in a way - because I guess it's mostly from the way you're saying it. Maybe it's because you came in feeling depressed and, you know, it's like you've been feeling better, but right at this moment you're not, in a sense, reaping the harvest of that feeling.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, and this is something that is - I mean with the car it's kind of extraneous. It's not something to do with...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...everyday living.
COUNSELOR: Right, yeah, it's just...
PATIENT: It's a fucking car that's breaking down.
COUNSELOR: It's not like a [life breaking open] (ph). It has its own, you know...
PATIENT: Yeah, it hurts, it really does.
COUNSELOR: Sure. I get unhappy when my - if I need a tire or something.
PATIENT: I was just thinking about my father.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I don't know if you've ever noticed that I've never mentioned him.
COUNSELOR: Mentioned him related to what?
PATIENT: At all, I don't think. 0:08:02.9
COUNSELOR: You said that your mother... Didn't you say that your mother kind of like bossed him around?
PATIENT: Well, if I didn't say it that's true in a sense. It's less that she bosses him than he withdraws, and so she's left with the job of running things, which aggravates her, and I understand that. She wants to be protected and have someone guide her really, and my father is very passive.
But you know, we were talking about my feeling of inadequacy to meet needs and meet the needs of other people, and it's really a very beautiful description of my father too. And I found, oh, in the past couple of years, that I'm more and more like him in terms of my behavior.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're more and more like him, like you kind of withdraw from wanting to take on needs and being involved like that in a way that doesn't make you feel good about yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm more like - I'm not really like him in my behavior as much as I am kind of an attitudinal set. You know, like I'd like to withdraw, I think, but it's not consistent with my own image of myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's kind of like you don't think of yourself - I guess that's kind of what you were talking about. Remember when you were talking about what it would mean if you couldn't meet these needs...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and you - so you kind of meet that - all kind of sense of yourself as a person would really be the curtain shattered. It's kind of like you see yourself on the one hand as wanting to be that kind of person who can meet needs. Again, on the other hand, having - afraid of it and wanting to withdraw from it. 0:10:13.3
PATIENT: But it's something that when I thought about it, at least, you know, I'd half laugh that, gee, I'm more like him than I thought I ever would be, and I'd laugh because I used to get so angry at the fact that he was so timid about making any kind of normal decision. 
Like if we were on a vacation and we'd come to a - kind of like a crossroads where a highway would branch off with another, and if there was no marker my dad wouldn't go, he'd just stop, and if it wasn't on the map he'd be paralyzed, wouldn't know where to go.
COUNSELOR: Like unless it filled all kind of structured he wouldn't go anywhere?
PATIENT: Yeah. And you know, I used to sit there and yell, you know. "It doesn't make any difference, just go somewhere for Christ's sake," and I'm very much like him, you know, even with the little things and with the goddamn road map.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like... Is that the kind of thing like if you take the road map metaphorically, you know, like you would respect him to know things and understand things and not feel confused or uncertain about things. Is that a similarity? I mean do you see that as kind of...
PATIENT: Yeah, I imagine, especially... See, I don't think I ever sensed - I really don't think I ever sensed my father's bewilderment until I was in high school, and I had always had a lot of confidence in his ability to handle things, because I mistook his passivity for control and for a way of controlling the situation, which it wasn't. 0:12:32.2
So when I finally realized that it was really kind of frightening to him to make decisions I didn't really feel threatened by it, you know what I mean? I didn't feel that, well, he can't protect me, for example, because I guess I know under fault (ph) I needed his protection. But at the same time it does upset me when I really get into the feeling that I'm very much like him; that upsets me.
COUNSELOR: Why? It upsets you because like...
PATIENT: Well, because I don't want to be that way.
COUNSELOR: The things you don't like in him are things you see in yourself and they're things you just don't like in yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. There are things I can't accept in myself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of how does that make you feel when you kind of, in a sense, realize that there are these things in you that you can't accept? 0:14:00.7
PATIENT: Well, I feel two things, really. I guess I always kind of felt a lack of real involvement with my father, see. And it wasn't that he was distant in person or that he was cold, because he's not cold, but he just kind of withdrew to conserve his own emotional strength, I guess. 
And I really don't recall ever feeling that there was something lacking in my relationship with him, I don't, but at the same time I guess I get that feeling, you know, without recalling anything specific, because sometimes if I think about having children, I say, well, gee, what kind of parent am I really going to be? Because we always have these fantasies that we'll do this and we'll do that and we won't do what mom and dad did wrong and we'll do what they did right, and I know it doesn't work out that way, you know, it just doesn't. 
And I start thinking, well, I had like my bad parent, my mother, and my good parent, my father, and I've identified with both and I can see behavior in myself that is peculiar to each of them, and then I think, well, if I'm the bad parent like my mother, you know, then it would really be hell, you know. I wouldn't want to have children under those circumstances. And then I think, well, if I'd be the good parent like my father, then that would be good, unless I'm too much like him.
COUNSELOR: You have the bad parts too.
PATIENT: Yeah, I have the bad parts too, which would be bad. 0:16:00.5
COUNSELOR: And I - this is something like this period, you're kind of - as you see kind of the facets of them in you, it really makes you question and just wonder, and really about just the kind of person you are, the kind of parent you'd be.
PATIENT: I'm sorry, repeat that.
COUNSELOR: When you see kind of these facets, the bad facets of them in you, when you see how you mirror those things in a way, reflect those things, it really makes you kind of doubt and disturbed about kind of really what type of person you are and I guess what kind of parent you could be.
PATIENT: Yeah, it does I think because there are things that I'm becoming more and more aware of, and only recently, we'll say within the past several years, have I become aware of them. And they're really... Well, first of all, they're, again, kind of like inconsistent with what I want to be, you know, but second... Well, either inconsistent with what I want to be, but they're also things that I don't want to be in terms of just being happy, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yes, it's...
PATIENT: I mean there's image but there's also...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's... The image is kind of a little more kind of as you stand and look at yourself you just see that you're not the person that you'd like to be, but there's also kind of a more almost immediate thing of you're just not being the kind of person you know would make you happy.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. You know, for example, if I got - let's say if I had children and I were withdrawn like my father; I wouldn't be happy with that. And if I had children and I were erratic and undependable like my mother and had such great needs that you use your children to meet the needs, I couldn't be happy with that either. 0:18:09.7 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like - I guess it's not just that you couldn't be happy, it's like the thought of you being a parent in that way, like your parents were to you, really upsets you and the thought of you doing that makes you quite unhappy. Like I said...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like you don't want to be the kind of parent that your parents were to you.
PATIENT: In some ways anyway, yes, but these are the things that I imagine... They're kind of like dominant images, you know. As the years sift through, these are the images I'm left with to really dominate.
COUNSELOR: They're the things you remember and I guess kind of the things that kind of stand there when other things are washed away through time.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But also the things that kind of strongly had an effect on you too.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. 
(No speech between 19:13 and 26:24)
PATIENT: I don't know where to go. 
COUNSELOR: How do you feel?
PATIENT: I'm not sure. A combination of things, I mean.
COUNSELOR: A combination of what?
PATIENT: Of feelings, and I'm not sure what they are.
COUNSELOR: Why don't you see if you can kind of draw the script together (ph).
PATIENT: Once... I think the first feeling was of withdrawing, you know, because I was...
COUNSELOR: Withdraw from you or withdraw from me or what?
PATIENT: From you and from this situation, because I was thinking about, you know, terminating it.
COUNSELOR: Terminating...
PATIENT: The sessions, you know, and the stopping. And I don't know if that feeling was brought on by talking about my parents at that time or... You know, I'm not sure why I felt that way, why I was thinking about it. But like when I pick up my tobacco pouch I picked it up to fill my pipe, but then I didn't. I just left it in my hand like I was ready to get up and walk out, but then I felt real angry and I'm not sure why I felt so angry.
COUNSELOR: Did you feel angry at me? 0:28:21.9
PATIENT: No, I don't think it was at you. I'm not sure why I felt so mad.
COUNSELOR: When you felt that madness, I mean what were you thinking about? Do you know what I mean? Like in what context was it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I know. Oh, I think I know. Although I'm not sure how I got to, you know... I'm not sure what - how I got to what I got to, but I was thinking about my role in therapy as I kind of like play it, you know. Well, anyway, and then I was thinking I wish I wasn't a teacher and then I could really let loose, and I don't know why I felt that, because it wasn't that I had something I really wanted to talk about but I was afraid to. 
But when I think about it I guess that I'm not sure. I have been thinking about my parents and I perhaps - you know, what I was really associating it with was if I wasn't a teacher I'd really let loose at them. I'm not sure.
COUNSELOR: So the anger kind of was in a context of somehow like what you are and the way you are. It leads to some kind of inability to let loose? See, I'm still having a hard time getting my hand on it [other than your car] (ph). Angry about your whole inability to do that? 0:30:29.6
PATIENT: Maybe at once. I don't know. I think maybe and I generalize the way it was, you know, as - because the anger I was feeling wasn't really directed at anything specific, and so okay, maybe in a generalized way, that's what it meant.
COUNSELOR: I'm not exactly sure about that, but I mean I guess you're saying somehow, you just sitting there, some kind of sense of anger welled up inside of you.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: I want to go back to something you said because it wasn't quite clear to me. That was kind of like, when you're talking about with that complexity of feelings that you couldn't put your hand on, the first thing you said was "I kind of had a feeling that there was a sense of withdrawal which led to some kind of thinking about termination." Now, I didn't understand. That meant termination of therapy; what goes along with that or what's that about? 0:32:50.6
PATIENT: Well, I'm not sure if I know what you mean. You mean what is that associated with?
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm, well, let me - because it's something you haven't talked about.
PATIENT: I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: Well, I had the feeling like you were feeling a sense of withdrawal in stopping therapy or something and I was wondering why or...
PATIENT: Well, no. Okay, I see what you mean. No, I was feeling the sense of withdrawal, that was the first thing, and then I was thinking of terminating therapy. And I guess... See, I'm not sure what brought that to mind. It was a combination of three things, I think: My car, because I had been thinking about how much it was going to cost me to get it fixed; and then from time to time I thought, well, I wonder how much longer I'll go, and I wonder how much of a gain I can expect to make over let's say a period of like 15 more sessions or whatever it is; and then I guess just I was feeling kind of a feeling of withdrawal and I guess that's where the association came in. 0:34:34.5
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you somehow kind of felt yourself going distant or something and...
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I can't really explain it right now. It's something that I had thought about, you know, about like the termination. I thought it right before I came up because I paid my bill for last month, and I thought, gee, you know, it hurts, you know.
COUNSELOR: It hit heavy, the car.
PATIENT: So it was something that was on my mind. And the reason I feel like mixed up about what my feelings were was because I don't know if, like, the car made me think about it or if my feeling of withdrawal made me think about it. And if it was the feeling of withdrawal, then I'm not sure why. I'm not sure if it's because I don't like the feelings or maybe because I felt I didn't know what to talk about next or where to go, and maybe I felt that was the best way to avoid situations like that was simply to break it off. 0:35:58.1
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you really don't know why you felt that way, you're right.
PATIENT: Well, it could be a number of different things.
COUNSELOR: You think of maybe different things it could be, but I guess the sense of the feeling was a sense of questioning or something, detachment or something like that for whatever reason, feeling a kind of unsureness about it all and of therapy.
PATIENT: Yeah. I (inaudible at 36:33).
COUNSELOR: Kind of [the faceted] (ph) when you were thinking about therapy in terms of when I guess you were saying the net gain was like this (inaudible at 37:30) about what could be gotten in whatever, 14, 15 more sessions that there are. Was there kind of a doubt about he answer to the - I mean a doubt about it?
PATIENT: Well, no, it - yes and no. There's a doubt about the question. The thing - you know, I had, let's say, two big things that I wanted to work on and one was my marital relationship and the second was I guess things about myself about which I was unhappy. And I think my marital relationship has improved and will continue to improve, because I feel that we both really know how to do it, but our feelings were standing in the way. There were a lot of feelings that were blocking it. 0:38:35.7 
I was unhappy about things about myself and really was able, at the time, like when I was tensed (ph) to specify a lot of them, I know I felt that I was excessively critical, well, and especially of people close to me. 
COUNSELOR: Close to you?
PATIENT: And I don't know, like, it's hard for me to remember now. I'm thinking of the cue (ph) sort and how I put the cards down. But anyway, I just kind of feel that I worked out the things that I was most concerned about and the things that I could specify, you know, that I could define.
COUNSELOR: Things you could put your hands on.
PATIENT: Yeah. And they were things that I consciously wanted to work on and really have, even though we haven't even talked about a lot of them. But now I don't know where to go, because I don't know - you know, I can't focus on any one thing now and direct it toward a goal.
COUNSELOR: Is what you're saying is like when you first started you just kind of like - there were concrete things that bothered you and that you wanted to work on and then you could think you knew what they were, you could put your hand on them, and it's what you're saying now is like can't feel anything that concrete that's there and it's like [go before] (ph) and it's like those things have seemed better, and don't have anything like that. Have maybe something diffused but I don't know exactly what - I don't know what you have. I guess you're saying you don't know what you have. So kind of like just feeling not sure of that. When I don't have something concrete what can I gain? .
PATIENT: Well, if I don't - I feel I could gain, but I don't know how to focus my efforts now. You know, I don't know what to focus them on or towards, because I don't know what my end is now. So I feel really kind of lost; I don't know where to go.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. See, because I guess I kind of sense this, like, there are things about you that disturb you about you. You know what I mean? Make you feel bad about you too. So it's - when you think about the movie (ph)...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I kind of felt very kind of - the last time when you talked to me you talked about, you know, your sense of what it could be like if you really failed and (inaudible at 42:12). Sense that that was a very meaningful thing for you. 0:42:15.0
PATIENT: Um-hmm. You know, it was, or it is.
COUNSELOR: What did you mean? You looked at me [like that] (ph) and you smiled. You're thinking something...
PATIENT: I had the thought that he doesn't know where to go either so he's taking me back to that.
COUNSELOR: No, yeah, well, no. I feel kind of funny, because I feel like you really are at a loss for not knowing where to go. You know me, I kind of feel that where you go is what feels most important for you. And I don't want to tell you where to go, but yet somehow I feel like I'm suggesting you could go there, and I don't quite even feel comfortable in doing that. 
See, I guess what I'm saying is that I don't really know where you should go, but I guess the kind of things that feel most important to you, most disturbing to you, is where to go. I mean I wasn't suggesting that to go back to that, so much as saying I guess like what you talked about last time was not something concrete that you had come in here to talk about, you see what I mean? Not one of those X number of different things, but yet in a way was something very real to you, very present for you.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So it's meaningful to talk about. You see I guess what I was saying... When I was saying that I had the sense like that maybe these concrete things may not be there and if you put your hand on some kind of diffuse things that you can focus on...
PATIENT: Oh yeah. 0:44:26.0
COUNSELOR: Do you know what I mean?
PATIENT: I know what you mean. Yeah, I know what you mean. It's like I would imagine my problem here is the fact that - it is in the way I learn, period, and I don't even know how that is, but I'm just kind of goal-oriented.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, that's...
PATIENT: I focus on some thing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's kind of very much the sense I have on you and I guess that makes for a problem in here.
PATIENT: Now, see, I don't doubt that my - that I could feel gains without focusing, but I can't do that alone. I just can't do that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Because I don't know where to focus now, what to talk about.
COUNSELOR: Because I do sense kind of like you are very task-oriented or goal oriented in mood (ph). Maybe it's from your work, but also it's just the general style of your life. And not having goals that you could clearly put your hand on or know what to focus on makes you really feel at a loss I think, or in a sense aimless without a map, you might say.
PATIENT: Yeah, shit. You said it makes you feel at a loss. What flashed across my mind was no, it makes me feel like I'm just spending my money for nothing, you know (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Oh, that kind of thought (ph).
PATIENT: And I don't want you to be hurt by that.
COUNSELOR: No, that's all right.
PATIENT: Yeah, but you know, it's like if I don't feel I'm getting the gain, then I ought to buy some new rings for my cylinder, my piston, you know. So I guess even that makes me feel a pressure to accomplish something and to feel that I accomplished something. 0:46:33.7
COUNSELOR: You really kind of, for your money and for your efforts, you just want to have something to show for it.
PATIENT: Well, not show for it.
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean maybe that show is sensitive, like a new car to show.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Something you do know happened.
PATIENT: Well, for the first time in my life I'm making money, for the very first time, and for the first time since my wife and I have been married we've got money, and then my goddamn car breaks down. And I actually like coming to therapy and my increased paycheck fit in beautifully, see, because it covered it, and then all of a sudden, you know, when the car breaks down it just screws everything up. 
COUNSELOR: Some kind of pressure in a way. In a sense it feels like it's important to you so you...
PATIENT: Yeah, it is.
COUNSELOR: You sound kind of hesitant about saying that.
PATIENT: Yeah, because I was thinking about the people I work with who are trying to have us all thrown out of the schools, the whole - all the psychologists and the social workers, they want us kicked out of the community, and I know how they feel, you know, and I guess I was thinking, gee, I hope I don't sound that way, you know, like them. 0:48:09.5
I guess how I feel is that like when I left every week, you know, I felt a gain, I felt it, and maybe it wasn't something that I could put my finger on right at the moment. But like during the week I'd have insights and think about it, and I suppose now that I feel that I've lost my direction. I guess I don't know if I'm going to have...
COUNSELOR: Have those things.
PATIENT: Have those...
COUNSELOR: Have the returns.
PATIENT: Yeah, the insights or whatever they are. See, I don't - you know, I don't care where the insights are directed, you know, that's not really that important, but it's kind of like I've lost my direction here.
COUNSELOR: Don't really know what you want in a way, is that it?
PATIENT: Yeah. We're right back where I started. No, but I don't really know what I want to get from here, from here on out.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Kind of like some things feel more in place now, but now what?
PATIENT: Yeah. I was just feeling very relieved. 0:50:47.5
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know if I mentioned this before or not, when my wife and I - but when I first called and made an appointment initially there was like just a two-day interval or something before we came in for our initial interview and during - it was like almost immediately after I call I found a big sense of relief, and I realize that it was kind of like a giving over of my responsibilities to somebody else, you know, like, well, I called him at the clinic and they're going to take care of us, you know. And I guess I just now had that same kind of sense that, well, I gave it to him, now he's got to worry about where we go from here and not me, and I wondered why you weren't looking worried about where you should go (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Maybe it's because I don't see it that way. I don't mean to (inaudible at 51:55) I will leave you. It's kind of like you feel, like now having said that, that I have absolutely no idea where to go. 0:52:04.5
PATIENT: That I won't be held responsible if you don't feel (ph) there.
COUNSELOR: So I guess it's not like - neither did I think like you can say I don't have any responsibility; the clinic will take care of it, I guess I don't feel that. I guess I do feel that you do have responsibility in that and the [rate you want to go and focus on yourself to you] (ph). 
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: That's yours. That's your (inaudible at 52:41).
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How does that make you feel?
PATIENT: Kind of back where I was a while ago.
COUNSELOR: You look disturbed.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, I'm just - when you said, "Well, how does that make you feel," you know, I sort of - and I said, "Well, I'm back where I started," and the first thing that popped into my mind was, well, should I quit or not, you know. 0:54:22.1
COUNSELOR: And then what were you thinking?
PATIENT: Well, then my next thought was I wonder what you'd think of me if I quit?
COUNSELOR: Another was (ph) kind of your concern was after thinking that thought, thinking like this choice, kind of your first thought in a way was well, what would he think of me for doing that.
PATIENT: And I also thought "I wish he'd tell me what he thinks," you know.
COUNSELOR: Is that a question?
PATIENT: Well, that's what I was thinking anyway. It doesn't have to be a question.
COUNSELOR: I volve (ph) answer, but I don't want to be (inaudible at 55:18). Oh wait, did you mean what I think of you, or what do I think about your quitting?
PATIENT: Either one. Neither one is really a question for you.
COUNSELOR: Pardon?
PATIENT: Neither one was a question for you.
COUNSELOR: Oh, there's just kind of...
PATIENT: But that's what I was thinking.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. It's kind of like it wasn't really the answer that you really wanted so much as that's kind of where you were in your doubt; it was doubtful about what I would think about you and...
PATIENT: Well, you know, that's what came into my mind, you know, and I guess it was kind of... Well, in part, I'm sure it was just like what I said you [wound all about] (ph). I don't know where to go from here. Now you take it and kind of like you carry it for me or you help me focus, you know, and maybe what I was thinking or maybe what my thinking is connected with was if you don't help me focus I'll quite, but then what would you think of me if I did that? I had the feeling sort of. I'm just trying to account for them now, why.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: In my way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I see. It's kind of like you could set up a condition in your mind in a way though if I - it's your responsibility. If you don't mean it, then I have reason to quit it. 0:56:50.2
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess. I hadn't thought of that. I'll work on that during the week.
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe that was the way I heard it. We do have to stop. Does this feel kind of resolved for you or...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Good. We can talk about it more next time if you'd like. Is that...
PATIENT: Yeah, that's okay. That's making a decision. See, it's funny I...
END TRANSCRIPT
