TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 0222-115, Interview number 20. 
PATIENT: Happens. Just kind of drifting free. Like it's got me interested too. I'd like to see two pair and see how things. Do you mind if I finish this letter?
COUNSELOR: No, not at all.
PATIENT: Ok
COUNSELOR: We might be interrupted by a phone call.
PATIENT: Oh wow, that'll just really tear me up.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) 
PATIENT: (chuckles) 0:00:27.7
I'm wasted. It's been a long day. I have trouble figuring out where I was last time I was here. 0:03:53.8
COUNSELOR: I recall a lot of frustration.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And not as much content.
PATIENT: I can't remember where I was. I finally wrote a letter to Jes. Told her I didn't know how long we were going to keep up this little noncommunity game, but it wouldn't be much longer, either way. And I've kinda been walking around on pins and needles waiting for this letter. She never answered me. I kinda told her that I'll either start dating other girls or she and I will get it together. But, she didn't make any comment to that effect at all. Nothing whatsoever was said about me seeing other girls. But I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Where does that leave you? 0:05:02.5
PATIENT: Nowhere, as usual. Leaves me absolutely nowhere. I have nothing more to go now than I did before. Except that it's reconfirmed. I didn't doubt that to start with, but it is reconfirmed that the relationship with Jes at least isn't at this point ready to be given up. But I still have serious doubts as to whether I'm going to be playing my little solitaire game up here a whole lot longer. I'm getting awful tired of it and awful down on the monogamous even in solitaire ideals that I carried up here with me.
COUNSELOR: It is like hard to maintain some ideals if you don't get any reinforcement for holding them or something. 0:06:02.3
PATIENT: Right exactly. I wrote a letter last night. Yeah, that was a really poor experience last night. That's had me awful upset lately. I got a letter from Jes where she talks about how she hates seeing me depressed all the time etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, to where I ended up with this image that all I ever do is cry and feel sorry for myself. And it just really pissed me off.
COUNSELOR: Because you don't see yourself presenting yourself in that way.
PATIENT: No, I don't. I have good time a lot of times. And I admitted that oft times the tensest positions are when I'm back at Boise with her, so I don't doubt that isn't the sunniest side. Went upstairs and ask Josh, and I said "Do you think that I'm always feeling sorry for myself?" And he looked up and said "Yeah". 0:07:07.5
COUNSELOR: Hmm. 
PATIENT: And that hurt I hadn't been cut like that in a long time. And especially since Josh and I have been getting along better than ever lately. And in fact just that day, on the way home, was the first time I'd ever just said to him that I thought we got along awfully poor for as close of friends as we were suppose to be. And we admitted to each other that we just didn't really have it together like we should and that we should do something about it. And I don't know it's like there are times maybe when I could see Josh saying that for some reason other than the fact that he thought it was true. But at this point the only reason he would say it is if he thought it was true. And it really cut me up. 0:07:55.6
COUNSELOR: Did you get any more information about it?
PATIENT: From Josh?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like..
PATIENT: No I that's, he answered me and I just sat for a minute. And I left and I just went out walking. I came back about four and a half hours later and he was gone and I went to sleep. And I haven't brought it up again I just, I'd just as well forget it. But I'd just wrote two pages of absolute flaming hell to Jes over that. Then after asking Jim I came back down and I just told her what had happened upstairs and said "Well, maybe I'm fucked and your right" and then mailed the letter. That's strange, when I write a letter, like normally a person would write that letter and then they go well I'm fucked then tear it up. 0:09:10.7
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: If I write something it's like, I at least felt it at that time so irregardless of what, you know I might read it 20 minutes later and say that's pure bullshit, but I will mail it anyway. I may add an explanation even, but I'll always mail it because I always feel it's at least part of me at one time or another.
God this week has been sheer hell at work. The job isn't hard, I mean there's been an awful amount of physical labor lately. I was just almost sick today, couldn't afford lunch and I was just working my brains out all day long. So I was pretty screwed up by the time I got home. 
But I get up everyday and I just got to convince myself all over again that I really do want to go down there and throw away another day. But, the pay is too good. I can't argue with that. The job is just as meaningless and ridiculous as any other I've ever had but what can I expect? That and the debts are finally starting to, I won't say paid off but they're coming due and they're getting paid now. And that is heartening. If that's the word. 0:10:51.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it all sounds like all that self comfort, but right now your having a hard time drumming up any kind of enthusiasm. 
PATIENT: Yeah it's, right. Like I could be just as enthusiastic as hell every first and sixteenth on paydays but other than that the job just doesn't mean a damn thing to me.
I don't know when Josh said that, it kinda made me wonder just what it is that prompts a person to do, you know to carry on with life. And like it made we wonder am I really the kind of person that does everything out of self pity? And I haven't come to any conclusions. I'm rather prejudiced from the start against the idea, but even from there I feel like I can't really see it at all. I don't know, I just don't know what to think of that at all. 0:12:19.3
COUNSELOR: You know two people that sort of know you saying that, is kinda like heavy evidence except that you, it sounds like it's just really foreign to you. Like you know you feel rotten sometimes but you just don't..
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't doubt that like I'm depressed in the last four months a considerable amount of the time. I'm not just a super happy person like I was two years ago.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: But I have optimism left in me that it will improve and in the meantime there's a lot of times that I really have a good, I enjoy myself. And if there's anybody that knows it, it's Josh, because he's the person that I do, he goes to concerts with me, he and I go out and freak out every weekend or that's a lie but those weekends when we can afford it or have something to do.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And it just really surprises me that he of all people would be the one to say that. Josh has an attitude. Well I've said that before. He has an attitude like that about people though but.. 0:13:23.6
COUNSELOR: You mean that he thinks they're always making excuses for themselves or..
PATIENT: No, Josh is the kind of person that if he sees anything in a person that is either alien to or that he doesn't like whichever, well then they're fucked totally from then on.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: At least on that point in particular. And not that it matters him, in the least. Whether it concerns him that he bothers or cares about it. But he'll just continue to write somebody of the list.
COUNSELOR: And that might be the case with you?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have a feeling that's it. He knows that I get depressed and he decides that self pity is my motivating base, I guess. It's kind of a shame that that had to come when it did because it seemed that that afternoon we had actually started on getting together a little bit.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: I don't know, it's left me awful shattered. And I just now getting, just this afternoon since work has gotten off, maybe I should say since I read that letter. Now I'm feeling a little better. 0:14:48.2
COUNSELOR: What's in that, what's in that shattered, like just really being puzzled about what they mean, or feeling awful if that's the case?
PATIENT: Both. I'm both terribly, terribly upset and disappointed in myself and them that first that they should feel that that's my motivating base and in myself that I should give them that image and also puzzled as to where the hell it came from. 0:15:22.4
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Like where are they getting the evidence for this or what..
PATIENT: Right, well.
COUNSELOR: What's your behavior that they think that's it or something.
PATIENT: Yeah, and that behavior, whatever it is. Why is it? Is it from self pity?
I think you know, I've always considered my position on most things lately have been one of just stubbornness. It's strange. I've spent little over a year now just trying to be stubborn. Well stubborn is my way of looking at it. 0:16:28.8
My job is the most, well, inside of me it's the most obvious issue of that type. But like I used to just work three days a week if I wanted. Take four days of the next week if I had something else to do. And if I needed money I might work five days the next week, but it would be a rare week. 
My work improvement, my work steadiness has improved steadily ever since I've come up here. And like I wouldn't have been to work a single day this week if I had the same outlook as I used to have and I haven't. I almost came home in the middle of the day today, and luckily I couldn't find a ride so I stayed. 0:17:21.8
But that's kind of the main issue, one the factors that caused me to start doing this, is that you know I couldn't go through life with that half assed an attitude. But it's also kinda underlying in many different areas. There's a lot of things that I've gotten done that I wouldn't have, just because I stuck with it longer than I normally would have. I don't know I just can't figure where the hell self pity got into it. 0:18:04.8
COUNSELOR: It's almost like it would be good to sit each one of them down and say "All right now exactly what do you mean? What was it that made you think that. How did I act? What did I look like?"
PATIENT: I considered that and I couldn't really say why, but just as soon as I consider doing that, I know that it wouldn't work. I don't know why. 
Good question why wouldn't it? I asked that one. Well it's kinda like that's putting them on the spot too much. 0:19:03.4
Like I have many impressions without circumstance filed behind them, you know. I'll record the impression and not the circumstance. And this may be the same situation and even if it isn't I'm afraid that if they should say something I would be in a position where I would respond with a defense of that wasn't what it was. It's this or something like that. I don't know.
But boy I've sure been short on temper. Oooh. The last three days I just almost killed anything that got in my way. I didn't appreciate that much. I was beginning to think that if I don't get over this this, you know. I would rather go back to feeling sorry for myself and not even realize it and at least fool myself and think I was happy than go around being mad all the time. 0:20:16.6
COUNSELOR: What happens when, you keep it in yourself or do you lash out or? Like does anybody know you're short tempered?
PATIENT: Well, they don't know just how mad I am. Mostly I've been trying very hard to be by myself, just because of that. That's why I went out and just walked for quite a few hours after that thing with Jim.
COUNSELOR: It that part of your reaction hearing the business about being self pitying from both of them, being angry? 0:21:08.3
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm not sure. It's not angry at them. It's not really being angry in a directly cause of the situation. I'm angry. I'm real short tempered just because I'm so upset. Like if I got upset over anything that much I would be that short tempered. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. It's like things become irritants very easily if you're upset at something else.
PATIENT: Very. I can't count the times today I have thrown a chair across the room, or threw a shovel clear up against the wall, or tossed a ladder down a stairways, or something like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I had that image a minute ago of you throwing a bottle against a wall or something like that.
PATIENT: As a matter of fact I've done that too. Only it was my coffee cup. I took three coffee breaks this morning because I threw my coffee cup. 0:21:57.3
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like some kind of thing, it's like it's this unfocused bitterness or rages just wells up in you and you have to do something. It's not even, there are no even thoughts to.. 22:19.3
PATIENT: Yeah, I was trying to put a tire up in a tall rack. The damn thing weighed about 50 pounds. And I hoisted up and it made me mad just because I had to do it. And I'd throw that fucker and it would bounce right back down at me and knock me over. I shattered a chair, that chair is completely. I'd jump back up there and throw that thing up there. Finally realized that I was so mad I was throwing it clear up against the upper rack and it would bounce back down. It wouldn't go in. I was throwing it to high. That mad me madder yet, so instead of just calming down I backed off and threw it across the room into the rack. I wasn't going to let that energy go to waste. I had to be that mad.
COUNSELOR: You know it reminds me of those clowns that children have you know that they bat around and they're weighted on the bottom, you smack them down and they come up. 0:23:27.2
PATIENT: Went and shaved and all it does is drives me worse than when I, drives me crazy worse than when I didn't. That and now that I've done that I can't get by without, used to be that I could get by without shaving for a week at a time because it looked scrubby just anyway. Nobody knew the difference. It's more of a bother than it's worth. 0:24:33.6
Oh, God. Sleep is one thing I haven't been short on in the last week. I was going to bed at like. Last weekend was a pretty dull weekend, for the main part I guess. So I was going to bed at like, Saturday night I think I went to bed about eight. Sunday night I went to bed about six. Monday night about nine. Tuesday, Tuesday I didn't get to bed until midnight, so I went to bed at seven the next night. It's made me tireder than ever.
COUNSELOR: Well that's the sleep of, it sounds like, kinda like the sleep of depression. 0:25:37.0
PATIENT: No that's the sleep of just, there's nothing else to do so I lay down and forget it.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: No, I haven't been depressed over not having anything to do like I used to. I woke up Saturday and realized I had nothing to do and started to go for a walk on that little bit of go outside and I don't anything anywhere to go. So I just said "Well fuck, I'm not going to beat my brains out going up and down the stairway (inaudible at 25:59.6) to decide where I don't have anything to do." So I just went ahead and walked anyway.
It's strange how that kind of thing can have a completely different perception to me, at different times. Like last Saturday it didn't bother me very much. I didn't have anything to do and that didn't inspire me but it didn't really bother me. I just went down to the Museum of Science and Industry and looked at all the people. 0:26:30.2
Whereas sometimes that would just send me into a fit of rage or despair or something. I have a feeling it's just how other things are affecting me at the time, more than the fact that I don't have anything to do. That and now that Josh and I are both working, money has been such a bitch. You know there is always something to do in a place this size. But when you haven't got any money and you haven't got any wheels and there's nobody around, you really don't feel like walking downtown.
COUNSELOR: You really are strapped. [ph]
PATIENT: Yeah, and all you can do is walk through Central Park, and I've done that enough. I don't need to walk through Central Park that many times before I feel like I'm bored with it. But now that Josh's car is fixed and now that he's working also, I think things will improve. 0:27:33.9 
That's a habit I've had since I was in the eighth grade. I've been very meticulous about purging mouth habits like you know. I've gotten awful close to getting into that. I used to put or something on the end of ever sentence or whatever that I'd say. And just little habits like that I always try to avoid, and I've noticed lately that I have picked up a couple of others. Strangely enough I realized the first time that I did either one of them, that they were likely to turn into a habit. 0:28:48.9
Damn. I don't know, actually I feel pretty good now. In this letter Jes said more than she's ever said in a letter before. That isn't the main part of it. It's that, I think it's the first time that there has ever been a foundation set. Like we go through this cycle of crises then break the crises and then fall out and have another crisis. And this is the first time we've ever kinda laid a pathway, to continue what it is that breaks, you know to continue the communication. 0:30:11.5
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And I don't know whether it will work. You know that's another thing altogether, but at least we made that attempt. There's that improvement anyway. And it is an awfully good chance. Wish to hell it would warm up.
COUNSELOR: I'm with you.
PATIENT: In a way I wish it did and in a way I wish it didn't. As soon as it warms up I'll go out and blow a hundred dollars getting my motorcycle put together. I wouldn't mind it staying cold for that point, but then again. I'd sure dig riding a motorcycle again. 
As days go by I'm more and more convinced an intent on getting out of the frat. And yet it's not, the urge isn't to the effect to get out sooner. It's just I'm more and more convinced that when the time comes that I can get out that I will. It's strange. Had I expected something like this I would have expected me to just get out at the first opportunity but instead I'm just kinda putting up with it or avoiding it. I'm home very little. And I don't see much of anybody while I am there. 0:32:53.4
COUNSELOR: I wasn't sure whether you thought that it was good that you stayed there for some reason even though you hadn't wanted to or whether you were saying it would have been better if you had just taken up and left the first time (we talked). [ph]
PATIENT: Oh, it's another case of stubbornness. I think it's better if I stay there, because I can't afford to move out right now. And if I did it'd. I'm waiting until my brother goes to wherever it is he is going to end up being a professor, either Oregon or Massachusetts or God only knows where. But at that point, that'll probably be next August. And at that point I'll move into his apartment. It's a beautiful apartment. Huge and probably cheaper than anything else in Central Park, due to the (inaudible at 0:34:06.9) landlord who doesn't know what real-estate is worth. So, if I was to move out now I'd have to get some cheap little one-room shack and sign a 6 month lease on it, that would have me fouled up for when I wanted to move in over there. So I will put up with this BS for a while and thumb my nose at them when I leave. I don't know, it's not breaking my heart. 0:34:32.2
COUNSELOR: I guess what I'm hearing is well there's not much enjoyment in this stubbornness, but there is something that..
PATIENT: It's useful.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. There's something good about being able to stick it out even though these situations are sort of blah.
PATIENT: It's stubbornness is kinda what is behind a delayed gratification complex. And like I've always had great belief in delayed gratification complex. I've never had delayed gratification ability, and so on. It's like I'm finally getting into it. Now if I could get my ass back into school. I've also found that I'm awful apt at learning, more than I ever used to be, because now I know what it means. And it's, I know what it means and it interests me for that purpose if for nothing else. Whereas learning was always you know, school in general was a kind of thing I had to put up with and get the hell out when I could and forget it. 0:35:32.9
COUNSELOR: Are you saying something like, what passes for learning in school, I found out really isn't learning. Now I know more what...
PATIENT: Well, what I got by with in school was just what they managed to kick in to me so damn hard that it didn't bounce out. I'm amazed I even got out of school, looking back on how I managed to go about it. Now I enjoy reading. God I'm just dying to get back in school. And I'm quite sure that when I do I'll be just 100 percent better student than I was. 
COUNSELOR: It's like you've experienced, I think you're saying you've experienced the process of learning but not maybe the same subject matter, but there's something about grasping things better. 0:36:25.1
PATIENT: Well yeah. More than that is I've learned to motivate myself to learn. Like if something didn't interest me due to either to the subject or the teacher or the way it was taught or something like that why then I just didn't learn it. I didn't give a damn. I wasn't going to bother. And now I can pick up the book that is pretty damn dry and maybe really isn't where my head's at anyway but I'll read it. And I'll force myself to read it and I'll learn as much of it as I can and then find uses for it later. Even though I didn't expect to. And it's like the gratification of that delay is coming through. I'm getting a little reinforcement there and I, it's doing a lot of good I think. 0:37:19.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah and it feels a lot different from just cramming in enough to get by, get that grade and then forget it the next minute or whatever. 
PATIENT: Um hmm. Well I never even got the grade. In fact I barely got by. That was almost by accident. Which was always kind of a joke all the way through school. I was always in advanced courses or advanced classes or something like that. Incredibly enough even in math. They started me in math a year early and I was, I don't remember what, by the time I was in junior high or no, junior in high school I was in Algebra two and then I was supposed to go to Trig. I never made anything but D's the whole series of math from eighth grade on when I started Algebra, I never made anything but D's. And I finally in junior high school I just well that's, I'm not interested and I don't make good grades there's no use in ruining the record any worse. So I gave up on it. But it's just that kind of thing whereas now if I would go back to math even though I find it dry and not really my piece of meat I'm sure I'd learn it. Just because I've found that there is purpose to it. 0:38:34.6
I've evidently got an ankle that's as bad as my shoulder now. 0:40:31.1
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: Remember when I sprained it a while back?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: The swelling's never gone down on it. Just stepping off a curb will sprain it so I'll be hobbling around for an hour and a half. And it'll be so swollen that I can't wear a boot. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: The whole right side of my bod is going to go eventually I imagine. If I remember right my right eye is weaker. I wonder if my right ear is weaker. (chuckles) 
When is he going to arrange that testing for? 0:42:37.7
COUNSELOR: I don't know. He'll probably call you up and try and do it at your convenience. 
PATIENT: Ok. Hmm. I'm almost curious to see what the results of all this is. 
COUNSELOR: You mean of, of, you're results or results of the whole thing?
PATIENT: Well, this is supposed to be some type of research. I was just curious as to what it all amounts to. 
COUNSELOR: I don't even know myself at this point. Because I figured I'd like wait until I wasn't involved in it and then find out (inaudible at 0:43:12.6) myself. If you want to know you should ask him and maybe when he gets something he'd let you know. 
PATIENT: Yeah I may do that. 
The Hawks play tonight, don't they? 0:44:39.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Boy that sure shocked me when they pulled it through the other night. 
COUNSELOR: You're speaking to a Ranger fan. 
PATIENT: That's a shame. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah I think we're going to get beat tonight. 
PATIENT: Who?
COUNSELOR: Rangers.
PATIENT: For real? 
COUNSELOR: We don't have (inaudible at 0:45:02.2)
PATIENT: I don't know anything about hockey but I've just settled myself to the fact that Chicago teams seem to be infamously second place. 
COUNSELOR: That's fine with me.
PATIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: That's one way I've got, you know you talk about strategies of getting through living in the city. That's been one of my strategies. I hate all the Chicago teams.
PATIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Love all the New York teams. My husband and I go out to Wrigley Field when the Mets come but, yell and scream and you know it's (inaudible at 0:45:40.0)
PATIENT: Hmm. I finally managed to motivate myself. Being so out of shape. See like ever since I've been up here, when I moved up here I weighed right around 100 pounds. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm that's low. 
PATIENT: It didn't look too healthy on me you know. So it seems like my attention had all been to the point of getting up to 140 or so where I belong. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: So I did. I didn't just sat on my butt and ate until I managed to get up to 140 and I was so out of shape it felt miserable. So I've started working out recently. And like it took me all but three months between the time when I decided that's what I should do and when I started doing it to get the ambition up to keep it moving. But once I started, it's kinda like a snowball effect and I really do enjoy it. I'm that way about so damn many things. The getting started is just a whole hell of a lot harder than actually doing something. 0:47:00.8
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
I think we're going to have to stop.
PATIENT: Hmm, k. 0:47:12.0
END TRANSCRIPT
