TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:03], 1971, client number 0324-006, interview number 17. 


PATIENT: For the last couple days after the holidays when I would come, I would usually have something I wanted to about. Now I usually make sure I take off this week and [inaudible at 0:29] if I waited until a vacation [inaudible at 0:33] so I ...


Somehow I have been a nervous wreck like ever since I came back from home. And how much of it was just [inaudible at 1:06] by too much to do? And how much was just being tired because she [inaudible at 1:19] seven o'clock as soon as I got back.


COUNSELOR: Oh, really?


PATIENT: And four days later, she had an infection. The doctor had to give her a shot to dry up her milk. So I have bottle feeding seven kittens every four hours.


COUNSELOR: Oh, no!


PATIENT: [Inaudible at 1:35] Partly, I have like built up a fantastic resentment to my roommate for not helping me and for sort of being like really kind of [inaudible at 2:03] and carefree. And I mean, like she had a vacation like all last week and I had to work. Well, I worked three days and then I took off two days and went to visit my friend in Pittsburgh. Which is very nice except that she and her husband had to help me feed the kittens every...


COUNSELOR: You had [inaudible at 2:19] to feed?


PATIENT: I had to, I had no [inaudible at 2:21] to feed them.


COUNSELOR: My God.


PATIENT: And I have taken them to work with me. I fed them during my lunch hour. I mean, I could not just stop work. As it was, I took off more time than I should have in order to feed them.


COUNSELOR: Oh my goodness.


PATIENT: I finally bought them to work but mainly she sort of offered [inaudible at 2:40] she will help feed them at her convenience. Like one time during the day, she will feed two kittens or something like that. And one of the kittens is hers. She wanted a kitten in the first place, which is probably why I let the cat get pregnant last February. And you know, was all happy about it and you know, sort of telling everybody to come see the kittens when they were first born. But when it comes to the responsibility of taking care of them, she's got other things to do. And like...the thing is, she always...she will offer to help, but it's the feeling of like, if you ask her or she did wake up in the middle of the night, you would...you know, she would be really resentful.


And you know, I would rather not, I mean, I would rather do stuff myself than ask somebody to do something that they really do not want to do. And I sort of expect her to see what needs to be done. I mean, obviously they need to be fed...


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...three times a day now, it used to be six times, or six to eight times when I first started. And she is in the room right next to me, she can hear when I am feeding them. She can hear the kittens crying and she sort of comes by there [inaudible at 3:57] and says, 'oh, were you feeding the kittens?' or something like that. But the thing is, she does not realize that she's doing it and really thinks that she is immensely helpful. And she was for one day before I went to Pittsburgh, very, very helpful. She got up with me for every feeding. But I mean, that was one day and that was like, you know, helping out with every feeding but never doing the whole feeding by herself, never taking over the whole feeding. And being very relieved when I left with all the kittens and left her for a vacation. And I finally just got completely fed up yesterday. I got back Sunday night, she does not offer to do anything until, I guess late Monday night. She said that she would help with one of the two feedings that was left. 


And very well, I had them all Sunday night and all Monday and had to take them to work on Monday. And I finally just got fed up and gave her a kitten and said that she could take care of it because I was not going to take care of her kitten anymore. And I mean, not that it's been easier taking care of six than seven, it's somewhat easier since I gave her the hardest kitten also the most of the difficult to feed one. Partly of spite, partly because he was the strongest one, I really...I do not she has got enough responsibility to keep the thing [inaudible at 5:19] 


COUNSELOR: Say, listen, I do not know if this will help at all, but my husband and I tend to jump to the defense of animals. We might be able to help some if you need somebody to [inaudible at 5:33] hair or something, maybe we could work...we'll be away until next Tuesday, but next week I at least could. I could not [inaudible at 5:39] for him. 


PATIENT: Maybe if things are still horrible. I am hoping by next week they will be [inaudible at 5:45]


COUNSELOR: How old are they?


PATIENT: They are two weeks now. Three weeks next week.


COUNSELOR: Maybe [inaudible at 5:53]


PATIENT: Yes [inaudible at 5:55]


COUNSELOR: Yes, well, let's...


PATIENT: It should get easier but...I was really a wreck. Like, I got an average of two or three hours of sleep all last week.


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible at 6:08] responsibility.


PATIENT: And I finally got it when I was in Pittsburgh. But I felt really terrible because...number one, I had to make my friends do a lot of the feeding [inaudible at 6:17]in the middle of the night. But they would have gotten up had they known I was up. And I mean, and it's not even their kitten, they have not spent anytime with them. And they had nothing to do with the cat's getting pregnant or anything else.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And also, I ended up sleeping in late everyday because I was so exhausted from that [inaudible at 6:38] 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 6:42]


PATIENT: And I mean, I know a lot of it is just because I should have never...I have not even had time to unpack from coming back from home. 


COUNSELOR: Really?


PATIENT: Since taking her to the vet's and trying to get back started at work. I started my new job the day after I got back.


COUNSELOR: At the same place?


PATIENT: No, I [inaudible at 7:05] just 12 hours a week. But it's a good experience because I went to learn to work with children...


COUNSELOR: Is that in addition to the hospital (ph)?


PATIENT: Mostly it was to keep my sanity because the hospital was driving me up the wall because it was so rigid and structured and stuff. And this place...I [inaudible at 7:25] there. I thought about it all last week because I knew the guy that worked there that was very excited about it. And it's just a very free kind of clinic. [Inaudible at 7:39] They care about...you have to put in a lot of work.


But all these doctors are big in terms with each other. And they care more about what you do than exactly that you get to work on time and that you put in eight hour [inaudible at 7:52] and stuff like that. And you sign up at the end of two weeks how many hours you put in. So anyway, it was something that I really, really wanted so I have had to go there. And that is one place I can not take the kittens to feed them. And also, like when I was home, there was nobody else there except two of my aunt's friends who I stayed with.


COUNSELOR: No one to help you with what had to be done or anything like that?


PATIENT: My aunt's friend. One of my aunt's friends who would go with me to the house and stop and help me clean out some of the things. But she worked everyday so she was not...and I had to go to the apartment and clean it out during the day because there was no light at night and it was also a real bad area. And as far as like planning the burial and everything, neither her brother nor her sisters from Louisiana came out, they just called.


So her mother is an old age home. Nursing home, I guess. [Inaudible at 9:00] and, I mean, it was more exhausting than anything else. And because [inaudible at 9:14] pressure of all these things that I need to get done and you know, I should be back in New York. But just the planning of the burial and the trying to get her autopsy done because the doctor decided that you know, it was suicide. Because there were suicide notes left and I said, 'look there are suicide notes left from two weeks ago and from two years ago. I want to know what happened this time.' 


And he was just really [inaudible at 9:35] I mean, I does not [inaudible at 9:38] for dealing with [inaudible at 9:40 -9:49] It was a Baptist cemetery and they do not keep good records back 15 years ago when my aunt's father was buried and he was the last person buried there. My uncle in Louisiana had lost the deed to the cemetery. 


COUNSELOR: Oh, Jesus.


PATIENT: So I do not know the number of the plot arrangement[inaudible at 10:05] So this priest and I ended up wandering around half of a day trying to find a place, and we never did find it. We just ended up starting a new grave. And just all sorts of nice little things went downhill. And like I was really, I guess kind of just too exhausted [inaudible at 10:28] when I got back here. I was lucky enough...like, I would work all day at cleaning out the apartment and trying to find out what happened; talk to police and stuff. And talk to people at the apartment.


COUNSELOR: Have you had any reaction to that whole thing? To your mother dying and what you had to do [inaudible at 10:40] disruptive or have you felt more like sort of numb and knew you had to get through it kind of?


PATIENT: Not [inaudible at 11:02]


COUNSELOR: Well, I am just wondering like if...I know you said the [inaudible at 11:08] if it upset you to have to do that. No, I guess [inaudible at 11:13] I guess like people have reactions to their relatives dying and sometimes they come right away and sometimes they come later. For some people, they never come and that is what I was asking about I guess.


PATIENT: Well, in a sense I sort of...I mean, have had a miserable reaction to it, but I have had so many things to do basically, that I have managed to keep from thinking about it. When I have thought about it, which has been [inaudible at 11:45] point in time and stuff like that. It has been real hard because I does not...it was a suicide [inaudible at 11:54] and I do not think she really wanted to kill herself because I really think she...they told me gestures in the past. She just had [inaudible at 12:02] and aspirin. She had sold everything in her apartment except a couch and a few keepsakes. Probably to get the money to go to Europe to die. [inaudible at 12:18]I told you.


COUNSELOR: Yes, I remember.


PATIENT: And they do not even know when she died. Her friend saw her last Sunday and said the people at the apartment building had not seen her last until Sunday until the doctor decided she died of [inaudible at 12:38] medical examiner. Another friend had talked to her Monday morning - her best friend had talked to her Monday morning [inaudible at 12:45] I knew she had not died on Sunday. And she was found Monday night at six or seven o'clock and I was called at nine thirty [inaudible at 12:57] New York ten thirty or something like that. And the thing is that, this best friend of [inaudible at 13:06] that I stayed with, her husband is home during the day and they got a phone call like Tuesday morning and nobody was at the other end of the line but nobody hung up either. And [inaudible at 13:19] she would have called and I really suspect that that was her asking for help and not able to talk.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And the phone was [inaudible at 13:28] the couch and she was found on the floor next to the couch. She probably was on the couch on the phone [inaudible at 13:35] But it was like, to see the scene of the death is just really atrocious. And, I mean, that picture just keeps coming back into my mind of just really seeing her there, dying and having nobody to call to talk to, to reach out to or anything else.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And you know there's no telling how long she lay there half dead, but still conscious without [inaudible at 14:03] before she died. And it's just, I mean, I really, really [inaudible at 14:08]


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And you know, somehow, had I known that she consciously wanted to die, and took something nice and lethal and killed herself, I would not feel so bad.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: I really would not. But knowing that it was not that way, I mean, the fact that she was too weak to know any alternative, she...when they finally got the doctor there to do an autopsy, he said there was very strong malnutrition and pretty bad [inaudible at 14:37] of the liver. And between alcohol and no food, I mean, her brain was just really messed up. And she was, I really do not think had the capacity to make a choice.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And I feel bad myself for not going home a couple days early and putting her in the hospital, for trusting her friends to put her in a hospital a week before, which I had asked them to do. And I asked them to call me if they had any trouble. [inaudible at 15:07] this one lady who was her best friend too find out about putting through [inaudible at 15:11] and calling me. And she got things started but she knew the [inaudible at 15:16] she was going to have to go through to get her committed. And because I knew that was going to have to be done it was only [inaudible at 15:21] And then to call me and I would come home so I made preparations like I had not taken on any new clients or patients that were going to be long term at the hospital. And I had not started working at this other place yet. And her best friend like, was really busy at work and just kept forgetting and does not bother to put my aunt in the hospital because she did not want to go. I mean, had I listed to her about whether she wanted to go to the hospital, she would be dead a year ago. 


COUNSELOR: So in addition to the sort of horrible vision that I have heard just lying there helpless, I guess you're saying you also feel somewhat responsible for it. Or in someway if you had done something different...


PATIENT: Yes, if I had gone home two days before, she would be alive today. I could not[inaudible at 16:14] she would be alive next month. I should have stayed there with her and kept her alive. I could have put her in a hospital and gotten her a...what she needed was really a long enough term hospitalization to get her physically back in shape before she could even begin any kind of mental therapy.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And I knew her friends, but they are too week really to do anything. Like, [inaudible at 16:42] listening to her and not...I mean, both of her friends have alcoholic husbands. They know that they can not reason with them and maybe they just went through this so long that they are so used to being passively letting them get [inaudible at 16:55] they just...they have no idea that sometimes forcing somebody is for their own good. 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And so [inaudible at 17:06] for that, but I am also mad at me for like, I do not know. Not knowing when to go home. I should have gone home a lot sooner to put it through court. And [inaudible at 17:24]because I mean, it's been a case of she...you know, all last year I tried to put her through court nobody would because she's so and you know, could put on such a good front. But I knew somehow I had to wait until she got all the way down before I could get her committed. But at the same time, I waited too long.


COUNSELOR: I guess what's hitting me is that [inaudible at 17:48] in another way. Another way of looking at it is you know, how could you know when the right time was there really were not any.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: clear signals that would tell you know is the time or anything like that.


PATIENT: I mean, at the same time, coming from my own [inaudible at 18:09] I have literally avoided the last year. You know, when I thought back on it, the last time I saw her was last July when I went home for a girlfriend's baby shower. I went to see her at work for all of 15 minutes to get her to sign over the registration to me because I wanted to change my college registration to my name because [inaudible at 18:28] house. And she said, 'can you stay?' and I said, 'no I can not stay.' [inaudible at 18:33] And I mean, I could have stayed and visited with her, but it was a case of her making me so nervous that kind of for my own self preservation, I do not. And it was a damn cruel thing to do. 


COUNSELOR: But it also sounds like it was like in a way, a survival choice.


PATIENT: It was, but it's like, it's definitely a survival choice. And a lot of things that I have done to her have been survival choices. I mean, my defense against her was to be very cold and withdrawn and to treat her like a patient. But the thing is, what she has really needed this last year, I mean, one of the things that she has added to the depression was feeling unwanted and unloved. And I being the only person she really cared about... I mean, she really sent this letter, one of the letters that I read to another aunt of mine, her sister-in-law, saying that I do not care about her anymore. And that is a pretty horrible way for her to die. 


I was talking a little bit about it to one of supervisors who was a...we run this alcoholics group together, [inaudible at 19:51] and he said you know, part of it is due to the paranoia brought on by alcohol where you really sort of see the worst in everybody and see everybody as [inaudible at 20:04]which is what she in fact did when she turned against every one of her friends. [Inaudible 20:09] turned against her. So in some sense you do not know what I could have done or had done, it would not have been enough.


And another [inaudible at 20:20]I was damn cold to her. [Inaudible at 20:21] I am really glad that the last time I talked to was I guess the day she got back from the U.K. On the phone I was very nice to her like I called her and I just told her I was very happy for her. That she was back and hoped that would accept some kind of treatment or something like that. I do not know [inaudible at 20:39] but I know I was really nice and told her you know, that I loved her and stuff. But like at Thanksgiving when I talked to her, she had called me from the hospital and I was very short with her. I mean, I could have gone to get her a Thanksgiving card, but I did not. And it was partly because she was in the hospital and I knew that she would just be blaming every...you know, I visited her in the hospital before when I put her in and it was like my fault for her being in there. [Inaudible at 21:11] And I really, you know, I really do not know. I guess I am angry at myself not completely because I knew it was not all my fault, but that I does not have the strength myself to not have to put up those defenses. And I mean, she has been in very bad shape for a long time. And she has been very hard for any sane person to live with or to get along with. And she has just been [inaudible at 21:50] her friends up the wall, who are the kindest, nicest people. Now she...and it was a survival thing that I really was...and I knew that it just made me so upset and I was so upset about everything under the sun anyway that I just avoided any kind of tension situation. Not that I was not almost as equally tense as being away from her and worrying about her and stuff. 


COUNSELOR: One [inaudible at 22:27] that is hitting me that I am wondering if it makes all this worse, is the fact that you are the only one. Like, you had to bear all this responsibility and never had anyone to share it with. So the choices you made to respect your aunt were the big ones. I am not sure that last part was clear. But it's like if you chose not to have anything to do with her, there was no one...or to make and separate yourself somewhat from her, there was no one to like help you with that or to take some of the load off you. Right now, you're bearing the whole thing yourself. 


PATIENT: There was certainly nobody in my role. [Inaudible at 23:09] Her boyfriend had I guess not seen her for about two months or something like that [inaudible at 23:18] he still cared a lot about her. [inaudible at 23:23] He just quit work, I guess the day that she died, that he heard that she died. On all the radio stations and front page of all the papers and stuff like that. Because she was a prominent writer in [inaudible at 23:38] And this guy that she had gone out with, he worked for [inaudible at 23:50] He just took off from work and did not come home for three days or something like that. And we did not have a funeral, we had a gravesite service. 


And a lot of people that came to that, did not come to that because they said that they could not which I can understand. [Inaudible at 24:06] But he had gotten to the point where he thought [inaudible at 24:09] the best thing he could do was leave her alone. Which of course had just broken her up more and then again, it was not helping for him to be with her. And it was her complete despair and complete feeling alone and the only people she cared about; mainly me and this boyfriend, not being there [inaudible at 24:33] 


And I was really lucky, like I have this 13 year-old cousin that is the daughter of my aunt's brother that died last year, that was really the only person that I could talk to. [Inaudible at 24:56] she was just nice. And I ended up buying a nice car. I am always a very cold person [inaudible at 25:05] it was very difficult to get along with her. And Jenna (ph) was not enjoying my [inaudible at 25:15] she had really known my aunt's better side too because she was very much like me growing up. When I went away to college, my aunt would call her a lot and just talk on the phone for hours about funny imaginative kinds of things and they would have the greatest time. 


COUNSELOR: At least you did have some contact with somebody.


PATIENT: I had some contact with somebody except that...the only problem being she's only 13 years old. And I do not feel I had any right to put anything on her shoulders or to come crying to her. She's growing up with her own things to worry about. [Inaudible at 26:00] she would be very nice to talk to [inaudible at 26:03] relaxing at night. Her mother forbade her to talk because she's...when I would come in at midnight or something like that, after going to somebody's for dinner, you know, it was certainly bedtime for the girl. Except that she was not about to go to sleep anyway so since she was up I would talk to her. So her mother finally forbade that. So we started writing notes to each other. And you know, it was just a really nice like [inaudible at 26:29] So, I mean, that was one good thing except that unfortunately she's not my age. And in sense, she's somebody that I need to take care of. I can get help from...I can get help from her by now, but I still have to remain to be the strong one.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: When I went to Rhode Island to visit this girlfriend from Pittsburgh, [inaudible at 27:06] the address of this girlfriend [inaudible at 27:09] I saw and her husband. And I had just called her from my cousin's [inaudible at 27:15] New York and told her why I was there. She said, 'oh, it's only a three hour drive [inaudible at 27:20] The next day I was going to go back to New York and realized I was so nervous. My cousin [inaudible 27:30] and I said, 'I guess you're right.' And I spent about five days there. It was really beautiful. She lived on a beautiful farm in out in the country and it was really peaceful. And they're just marvelous people [inaudible 27:46] And that helped somewhat, just being there and I was able to talk to [inaudible at 27:56] about some of the things that I thought [inaudible at 28:03] And I do not know, I guess it's probably [inaudible at 28:21] but my roommate is totally irresponsible because [inaudible 28:26] And my fifteen year old cousin was more sensitive in a sense...


COUNSELOR: You know, it's interesting that you covered that because that struck me. When you started talking about the kittens, I thought, no wonder you're so mad. You had just come back from one thing where you had to do something really hard alone and you know. And here at least there's someone here and you're left alone with another large task..


PATIENT: I mean, like, there was nobody else that could do things that I had to do at home


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: I mean, there was just nobody else in my position. And I was totally responsible. You know, feeding kittens is not exactly something that requires a great special skill. And I am the only one who could possibly do...and it's not like nobody else knew it, that I needed help. Because my roommate knew damn well that I was a real complete wreck. And yeah, I do not know, it just seems like [inaudible at 29:28] conversation about this great book that she was just reading or all the novels that she had managed to read during vacation and stuff like that. And I want to say, 'gee, I would really love to be able to have read these things and talk about them too. Instead of washing baby bottles and kitten laundry and stuff like that.'


COUNSELOR: Yes. [Inaudible at 29:49] cleaning up after them?


PATIENT: No, she does not do anything.


COUNSELOR: Just [inaudible at 29:53]


PATIENT: So...very rare.


COUNSELOR: So that was by the saving graces when we had kittens, I [inaudible at 30:00] clean up after them for the first X number amount of weeks and I sure appreciated that.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I had kittens before and it was the same thing but... for one thing for the first week, we had to keep her away from them because she still had milk. But it was...had hormones in it and that penicillin and the vet said the kittens should not get.


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible at 30:22] really pathetic on that. I remember when we [inaudible at 30:24] it was all I could do to keep her downstairs. She was so pathetic.


PATIENT: You see. And when the kittens were crying, she's crying for the first kitten [inaudible 30:33] I mean, what happened, it got to a point yesterday morning...I guess it was yesterday morning, this girl was picking me up to drive me to work. And she was picking me up at nine and so she does not call me until eight to tell me that she was coming at nine. And I had to feed all the kittens and get myself dressed and leave. When you're by yourself, it takes an hour at least to feed all the kittens and clean their box or what not. My boyfriend was coming over at lunch to feed them, so there was no problem with me. 


That...I was just so tired and so angry and so resentful and I do not know what else. [Inaudible at 31:16] all very negative feelings that I broke a baby bottle throwing it back into the icebox, literally. They're hard to break, I have dropped them several times without even trying. It was all I could do to keep from strangling some of the kittens when they would not open their mouth to put the nipples in their mouths. And yeah, I really...God, [inaudible at 31:38] stepping back and looking at myself as this horrible person. I was fantastically bitchy (ph) to my boyfriend and bitchy (ph) everybody else I talked to that came into the house. And somehow I just do not like [inaudible at 31:51] doing this to me. And I do not like me permitting myself to get so upset...


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: ...that I let that happen.


COUNSELOR: Now, when you do step back and look at yourself [inaudible 32:04] I am always so appalled at how absolutely nasty I am and it just makes me feel even worse. [Inaudible at 32:14] Does the roommate know how you feel about that? I mean, have you been able to say anything directly to her?


PATIENT: I began saying something last night when I gave her the kitten. First of all what happened first is I said, 'I am going to give you you're kitten because I just can not care of them all,' and she said, 'well, I am sorry, I had not made any plans for it. I am busy every night this week and I can not take it until Saturday.' And I said, 'one Saturday I does not make plans for the vet telling me the kittens had to be fed and I could have just let them all die, and I had to work every single day, but I do not let them all die,' and she just says, 'well, I'll try to help whenever it's convenient.' Was her final thing and she just let it go. And I went back, my boyfriend was in there helping me feed them and I said, 'what should I do?' [Inaudible at 32:57] is scared to give them all [inaudible at 32:59] she's going to let it die.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: I mean, if his aunt does not feel she was responsible. Since then, she's left one bottle out all night. She turned one bottle on today and just left it on the stove and when I finally found it, the pan was burning. Milk had not started burning yet, but ten minutes later, she still had not come out to the kitchen. So I wonder what would have happened had I not gone out there to take it off. And then I left the bottle there because it be that she just turned it on was going to come back to get it and when I went out for five hours, five hours later, the milk was still out there and had not been touched.


And it's more things like that that end up [inaudible 33:38] Iguana died while I was gone, by not feeding it. And...which would not have bothered me so much except that I...like, the lizard had been sick all last year. And I had literally spoon fed it and dropper fed it and everything else. And everyone told me it was going to die and to leave it alone. And it lived and it got well. And it was in for a big help from [inaudible at 33:57] And to make the thing starve to death, [inaudible at 34:01] to death. And the thing is, she's very helpful and very sweet and she's like mother's little helper, is what it amounts to. Except that it's fine when it's convenient or when somebody asks her and it's obvious that she can be a good help when she does not. 


COUNSELOR: But it's like the [inaudible at 34:23] the dirty, messy getting up [inaudible 34:26] appealed to her and she just...


PATIENT: Well, it's like if you know, if she'd do it, she'd do it on her own time and convenience. And unfortunately, living creatures do not work at somebody's own time and convenience when they get through with [inaudible at 34:39] or whatever the hell else they're into. Which is what she bought [inaudible at 34:45]


COUNSELOR: I know it is not funny but...


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: It's just beginning to sound do... 


PATIENT: And when I gave her the kitten last night, I tried to tell her how I felt and she said it, 'sounds like a lecture, please leave.' And that is all she's let me talk to her. My boyfriend talked to her for about an hour last night. I tried talking to him for about an hour and I do not know what he said to her. Except I know she came in after that all happy and wanting to talk and it seemed to her that the whole thing just boiled down to, 'well, you should have just asked me when you needed me to help you. I'll be glad to help, I have offered to help.' 


Oh, when I brought her the kitten, she also said, 'I feel like I helped you before you went to Pittsburgh. I helped you, I feel like I have no more responsibility.' And then she...oh, she also came out and offered that her boyfriend was coming over that night and there would be an extra person to feed a kitten. But this was after I told her I was very upset and I am quite sure that when he first said he was coming over, the last thing she had on her mind was to have the two of them spend an evening feeding puppies since she had not offered the nights before. And I just...you know, it's true...it's like a really bad [inaudible at 36:05] but I will not...I will get mad at somebody, but I will not ask them to do something if I feel like they do not want to.


And I mean, this has been this has been a bone that I've picked with my boyfriend like for a long time. So I [inaudible at 36:17] identified with my roommate very strongly. And it was really this was the only thing that was being brought back to me is something, 'well, we should communicate better.' And I mean, in that sense, they were right that you know, maybe I would have to change, but partly it spoiled me in Pittsburgh because this girlfriend of mine is somebody that will help you, no offer to help you, or be happy to help you. Like when I dead tired, she is...just because you need it and she will not wait to be asked. I have always had roommates like that in college.


COUNSELOR: Like you can see point or you can see that you do have reluctance that well, it's not the best thing and you might change it. But it sounds like there would have been something really, really not just concretely helpful in terms of all these puppies, but also, well, psychologically helpful or something. I mean for God's sake, it's going on right under her nose if she would have just offered.


PATIENT: Yes. And her defense is well, she could not know every time I was feeding her kitten. And she had to plan her reading and she could not be jumping every five minutes asking me if she could help, which [inaudible at 37:34] but that somehow is the only way she thinks about it. But when it comes down to actually helping feeding them, like at that on night, Monday night when she finally offered, she said, 'what times are you going to be feeding the kittens tonight so I can plan,' and I said, 'well, I'll be feeding them at six and at twelve,' she said, 'okay, I can probably help you a little at six but that is all I can do because I have to work.' She ended up feeding two kittens and [inaudible at 38:02] being very obviously unhappy the whole time she was doing it. And that was her great contribution of the day and no further offers were made.


COUNSELOR: Do you know how you act when you're mad but not asking somebody like do you think that she probably picked it up? Do you think you convey it? [Inaudible at 38:32]


PATIENT: Very possibly, I mean I literally do not talk to her except to say 'hello' from the time I came in Sunday night. I do not say anything nasty or sarcastic or anything like that, I just do not say anything. And I really do not see her that much because she was reading this whole time. But I mean, like I know that I still feel this terrible resentment and I know that I am going to go home and ignore her. And the thing is you know, she [inaudible at 39:16] And all we have to do is talk and all I have to do is ask her for help and...


COUNSELOR: That does not sound...


PATIENT: And to me, it just...like that just erases everything and that just makes everything fine. I mean, that is the spirit in which she came into my room last night to talk to my boyfriend for a minute.


COUNSELOR: And things are not that simple for you?


PATIENT: No. And you know, how much of it is me and how much of it is her, I really do not know. 


COUNSELOR: Well, I hear you taking responsibility for what you may be contributing, but I also hear you saying...maybe it is just right now or maybe it is all the time...I mean, there is also something about her or anyone's sort of ignoring what's there that really I guess hurts them, and right now that makes you very angry. I mean, I do not hear you [inaudible at 40:19]


PATIENT: Yes. I do not know, I started to...when I was talking to my boyfriend last night, he's [inaudible 40:32] supportive since I have been back from Pittsburgh. He is really amazed. [inaudible at 40:43]


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible at 40:43] It's okay, girl. 


PATIENT: It seems like a ball bouncing [inaudible 40:46] What was I going to say? Oh, part of my whole troubling since I have been in New York is that I have not had any decent girlfriends to talk to. And I was really spoiled in college in having roommates who would help you when you needed help and you did not ask if you needed it. And when in fact we...I have not ever had that many you know, close acquaintances, but the ones that I have had have been fantastically (ph) close. I mean, we would do anything for each other whenever the other one needed it. And I guess there were two girls in college and two girls from back high school and before that I am still very good friends with. 


And I suppose a lot of it was trying to make this one girl into that. Because at times, she would come through beautifully. The night I got the call that my aunt died, without her, I would not have gotten to the airport. Without her [inaudible at 42:02] about packing my things and so forth. [Inaudible 42:07] very kind you know, she did everything. She made all sorts of phone calls for me. And you know...and like when I took [inaudible 42:20] she stayed up all night and typed my paper. And I guess it's just that she is so inconsistent...


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ...that I end up expecting things that are not there. And I end up expecting a closeness that is not there. Or wanting a closeness that is not there is more...it seems like we each need somebody to talk to, we know we do. We are a lot alike in a lot of ways. And she talks to me a lot when she is having trouble with her boyfriend or something. And I can talk to her but on a very...only a very superficial level. I keep asking myself why [inaudible at 42:58] and somehow, I can not trust her to be...I guess because in some ways, she is very [inaudible 43:09] and very knocking down of the other person. And not you know, completely accepting a person for what they are and that kind of thing. And not completely empathetic. Like, she ends up giving me a lecture [inaudible at 43:25] understanding if I try to ask her about something or tell her about something.


And so I have never really been able to talk to her. And I mean, I can not go around getting upset for every person who does not turn out to be what I consider a real friend. And I can not go around getting mad and hurt by everybody that does not live up to my expectations on what somebody should do. And I mean, in that way I can become just like my mother who was always somebody that did something for other people and was always going out of her way to do something for other people. And was always tremendously hurt when they did not reciprocate or somebody did not help her when she needed it.


I mean, to a pathological degree, it got that way towards the end. It was not that way all the time. And I certainly do not want to be like that. And I do not want to be overly sensitive and over hurt about like every little thing like I find myself doing. And I [inaudible at 44:48] live with other people without ignoring them every time they make me angry. And then [inaudible at 44:54] and being unable to do anything.


COUNSELOR: Why?


PATIENT: Being closed in my room or something like that because I am so upset about it.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: The little bit of sleep that I have gotten since I have been back has not been very good sleep just because I am so tense. 


COUNSELOR: Right, yes.


PATIENT: And the point where I should be eating, I do not feel like eating. And I am tired of taking tranquillizers and I do not want to need them. But I do in order to function somewhat calmly and so forth. And I really do not know what the way out is because at this particular moment, I mean, I do not feel like everything is just nice and rosy and I can just forget. But at the same time, it is fantastically childish to let something color your whole relationship with the whole world. I mean, I was thinking as I was walking to campus today, that I really felt lousy and I really could not appreciate how pretty it was. And I knew usually going out in weather like that, I would feel really great. 


COUNSELOR: I remember taking [inaudible at 46:23] in the autumn and one of the things that made me the most sad was that I was not able to appreciate the weather and that was just devastating. When I would go outside, I would just... Yes, and it is almost like you know, you can see that this is not the right way or it is [inaudible at 46:44] to respond but [inaudible at 46:47] at this point, it is almost like you do not have the reserves to try and work on it. Like, you go on and get these kittens fed, you have got to get to work and you have got to...you have probably got other things to do too. I mean, it just feels like you know, it is not a simple thing that can be settled with this girl in five minutes of talking...maybe not five minutes, but...


PATIENT: [Inaudible at 47:16] for so long. And I mean, I find myself hating the kittens and they are beautiful. And just sort of hating the whole situation and hating to go home. 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel that is because you are angry at her and can not get it out? Or you know...


PATIENT: Well, there is no way to get it out. I mean, I can not talk to her because she gets angry and then she yells back, she did last night. And I can not pretend it does not exist because it is so strong. And I mean, I really [inaudible at 48:12] to just separate it from the rest of the way I function. And really have trouble doing that.


COUNSELOR: [Inaudible at 48:20] Well, the reason why I said that is you know, there she is where you have to do a great deal...you are [inaudible at 48:30] right now. It is like it is very hard to make her into a compartment when she is not there physically. And the things that she is not helping you with rear their little heads three times a day. 


PATIENT: Yes, something like that. 


COUNSELOR: Are you saying now that [inaudible at 48:54] you know, when they start eating and you the tension starts [inaudible at 48:56] to you that you would be willing to try and I don't know, work things out with her. I was not sure.


PATIENT: [Inaudible at 49:05] at some point, very, very briefly in the last three days I [inaudible at 49:14] good to her. It was not when I was with her, it was [inaudible at 49:17] when I was driving to work or it was some time that I felt like you know, that was ridiculous to get so upset about. And so I sort of see that as a possibility except that every time I am under any kind of pressure or tension or something like that, which is pretty much a usual state, slightly exaggerated at the moment, I can not resort to being like this. And even saying eventually things are get better, and we are going to be able to sit down and talk things out. And I mean, it is a combination mental and physical tiredness. I think more of it mental than physical. And it is like, every time I get upset about something, whether it is a paper that I have to do, or anything that is overwhelming me, I can get like this. And it's mostly with people that I...I don't know. I end up getting distorted illusions of good people. 


COUNSELOR: Now how [inaudible at 50:59] you said, 'I get like this.' How do you describe 'this,' you know, what you meant by 'this' at that point.


PATIENT: Not really sure except that like overly reacting to everything [inaudible 51:11] I mean, I think have some grounds for reacting the way I do. But I don't think I have grounds for reacting as strongly as I feel right now. 


COUNSELOR: Okay, I would add another step to it or piece on it. From what I hear, it is like you react very strongly but you never [inaudible at 51:38] it is like you react to yourself. You do not get a chance to react [inaudible at 51:42] also inhibited which is, for some reason, that is the [inaudible 51:45] hearing me today is like how when something happens and you are really uptight. What you do then is like shut yourself off or draw yourself in or something. I [inaudible at 51:58]


PATIENT: Yes. I mean, my boyfriend asked me that last night when I was talking to him. He said I did the same thing to him and that's true. Except that when I get this way, I am also in no position to talk things out with people because I just end up in an argument and I can never defend or state my position in any kind of decent tones. And I feel worse afterward than before. So it is not like I can just get it out and say, 'I am mad at you for X,' because it is never simple. One thing that they have done that I am angry at them for and one reason. And I mean I have never been able to argue with people or to get angry at people. I mean maybe because I thought myself too vulnerable. Maybe because I am scared of the way they are going to fight back, I don't know.


COUNSELOR: Sometimes [inaudible at 53:17] or work it out, I want to at least have a fighting chance you know, of getting something worked out.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And if somebody pushes me to argue with them when I am really like enraged and seeing red or whatever, it is not effective, I am just blowing off steam. I am being defensive. I am...and then I feel bad. I feel like I never did have a chance to [inaudible at 53:36] or try to work it out when I did not have any other equipment I needed or something.


PATIENT: Yes. I mean, that is pretty much the way I feel right now. That is the way things have happened with fights with my boyfriend because things have built up and built up and built up and I have not dared say anything because I know that he is just going to get angry. And when I finally can not stand it anymore, and I do talk to him, [inaudible at 54:03] turns out a disaster. 


COUNSELOR: Yes. That is one thing that you are saying that is probably one of the things that contributes to it being really tough is the business about letting him [inaudible 54:15] I even stopped and laughed once [inaudible at 54:19] this horrible argument with my husband, I [inaudible at 54:22] everything that had ever bothered me. I was so mad [inaudible at 54:25]


PATIENT: Well, I do the same thing...


COUNSELOR: And I mean, it was really funny that time but I just caught it because it to [inaudible at 54:32] but you know, I think that is one of the things [inaudible at 54:39] hard for me to learn to do. It is not one of those things...I still have not learned it though. And it is hard here because in addition to everything else, like you and Rebecca (ph) already have a history in a sense and it is like any attempt to solve a current... I think you have said this, but I will just say it again. Any attempt to solve a current issue has...it is very complicated because you have been with her for a while and I guess [inaudible at 55:12]


PATIENT: And I mean, this business about letting things build up, I guess [inaudible at 55:28] a very poor social perception or something in that there is one thing about responding to something every time something bothers you, which is absurd because you end up responding to little things that five minutes later, are going to seem ridiculous. The other extreme of they do not seem ridiculous and things get piled on top of them. And somehow it does not seem like this is the right thing to do. I mean, I am sure there is intellectually, but I can not feel it and find it for myself.


COUNSELOR: Do you mean that sometimes you literally do not know which is which kind? So that...


PATIENT: No. It is like a double [inaudible at 56:12] of losing either way. It is like you can not comment on each little thing that bothers you when it bothers you and get it over with. And at the same time, if you let things build up, I mean, it hurts you and it eventually ends up hurting them and you finally explode.


COUNSELOR: Okay but why isn't there a middle ground?


PATIENT: Well, that is what I am not sure...that is why I can not really perceive myself. I am saying I am sure there must be one, but I can not perceive one.


COUNSELOR: Like which things it would right to bring up right away and which things are going to blow over and [inaudible at 56:45]


PATIENT: Yes. And I really have no...I think about [inaudible at 56:51] but I do not know how to do that. [Inaudible at 56:58]


COUNSELOR: Would this business [inaudible at 57:01]


PATIENT: [Inaudible at 57:08] And seeing in myself that even though I was in total rage, was fantastically angry at someone for not helping me. 


COUNSELOR: If you get around to wanting to you know, we could think about kind of trying to classify the things that made you mad during the week and seeing if we could find a pattern. Or if as you reflected on, you could sense one. You see what I am [inaudible at 57:47]


PATIENT: Not completely.


COUNSELOR: I guess I am not really clear. I was thinking of I don't know, going to a day or two and maybe at the time if [inaudible at 58:00] or at the end of the day, reflecting back and thinking about, 'what bothered me today? What got me mad today?' And sort of maybe jotting them down and seeing if they fell into one class or another. When you have time to reflect on them. I don't know if that will be useful.


PATIENT: I am willing to try anything at this point. I mean, I really am because it is completely overwhelming me and yet I do not know what to do with it.


COUNSELOR: Yes. You know, one thing I came to, I sort of began to rebel against this [inaudible at 58:36] tearing me up [inaudible at 58:38] and you feel like it. I was making decisions that it was perfectly ridiculous to talk about this one thing. It was not the time, you know, and I was going to sit on it and that felt like a terribly unhealthy thing to do. But I have come to the conclusion that, hell, you have got to. I mean, something you just can not bring up. It is stupid.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And I do not always make the right decisions, but I mean, it is clear to me like if the other person involved is really, really upset, it is dumb to bring it up then because they are not going to be able to listen.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Plus it may be a little more humane to let them alone for a while. I really chuckled when I finally felt comfortable with that decision. [Inaudible at 59:20] I get very mad at people that run around trumpeting about you know, all these [inaudible at 59:23]


PATIENT: Oh, yes.


COUNSELOR: It is sort of very [inaudible at 59:27] feel comfortable suppressing something [inaudible at 59:35] Yes, I do not know if this is the week to start trying that [inaudible at 59:44] but it is something that you can think about. [inaudible at 59:48] over and over again and I find myself hearing this edge of things that you say and I realize that one thing that really does concern me and make me feel sad about you is not being able to ask the things that you need sometimes. So I realize like I often hear that as [inaudible at 60:04] I guess I'm responding to that now about expressing yourself too. And I you know, I may over emphasize it sometimes but it is something that I do feel concern about. [Inaudible at 60:27]


[Tape ends abruptly at 60:30]


END TRANSCRIPT
