TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Oh, god, I hate talking about this but it's apropos because it just happened. I ran into my old boyfriend. He lives in the same neighborhood as me. He lives around the corner from me and it just upsets me because I realize that the hurt is still there and this was two years ago that we broke. So obviously I haven't worked through it and I did something that I debated doing and then I said, screw it, I'm going to do it anyhow. He's a very affectionate guy. He's a yoga instructor and he expresses himself physically more than he does verbally. One of our big problems was that he couldn't....a lot of times he couldn't...he had...he could not deal with conflicted feelings and when something would come up that was problematic, he couldn't talk about it. He's the only time I ever went with a married man. He had been separated from his wife for 14 years and I thought, well, for 14 years, it's probably...you know, it doesn't mean that much. But obviously it did because the man never broke away and what, in essence, was going on is that it prevented him from really making a commitment to another woman. 00:01:31 Because he was so caring and affectionate with me when we were friends, and he's a very humane man, I presumed that that's the way it was going to be in our intimate relationship and, in fact, physically he was thoughtful and everything but when the holidays came around he was as cold as ice. He didn't even think about me. He's spending it with his family. He has three sons and his wife. And I was shocked when he said to me...I asked him about New Years and he said, well, I don't know what I'm going to do New Years so I was like...what about me? And that was just so telling to me about him. It was so shocking to me...it was just....it was....that, in essence, is the incident that broke up the relationship. He was incapable of making plans. He was one of the classic, you know, everything was fine. One day at a time. He had been a recovery alcoholic...is a recovering alcoholic and he took that very seriously. You don't make plans a month away or, you know. And it was a real disappointment to me because I really was in love with this guy and I guess I still have hurt feelings. Anyhow, unfortunately we run into each other. We're in the same business...he does pilates too and the other thing, after we broke up, we'd always talked abut doing a pilates certification program together. Without going into boring details, I taught him how to stand up in front of a group. He was not very articulate. I showed him how to do it. He took the information and ran with it and when we broke up, he's very good at marketing. He got a lot of people, to my surprise. We went out for Christmas a year after we broke up and I was very nervous about business....it was very slow and I(inaudible) thinking about doing certification. I said I would love to do it together, I think we could work together...well, together with this. 00:03:21
COUNSELOR: What does that mean?
PATIENT: It means that you would do a workshop but a certification program is different than just doing a workshop with pilates. It's....it's tested. It's an ongoing thing.
COUNSELOR: So you would conduct the workshop for others who were interested in this?
PATIENT: Yes...who were interested in getting certification. And the two of us could have done it well. I mean, I was better at the actual doing of the workshop; he was very good at getting the people. So it was a good mix there. He had really had the ball rolling much more than I did and I...and anyhow, he called me to tell me he didn't want to do it. (inaudible) he didn't need a partner and then two days later in the mail I got this elaborate brochure...he's calling himself the master instructor at the Institute of Pilates...which I thought was so childish (inaudible) 00:04:15
COUNSELOR: So he was going to go ahead and do it alone?
PATIENT: Well, he had...was in the process of doing it alone, anyhow, without me. We had already broke up. But I...I mean I really wanted to maintain the friendship and to my way of thinking, this was a way that we could have done it but he obviously couldn't do that. I can understand that to a degree. Anyhow, (inaudible) deal with these details which I'm going to (inaudible) Whenever I see him on the street he gives me a big hug. Drives me (inaudible) Annoys the hell out of me. I do not want his hugs....because it's bullshit. He's very good at the universal love but the intimate love, he has a hard time. And everything is fine with him.
COUNSELOR: So it makes you angry? 00:04:58
PATIENT: It makes me...yeah.
COUNSELOR: So this just happened?
PATIENT: And so this just happened and I was at the bank and I called him up and I said (inaudible) going to take this but I really would prefer that you don't give me these big hugs every time I see you. It just...it annoys me. Just annoys me. And I could tell that he was very (inaudible) he said well, I love you...and he means that loves you in the universal sense, you know, and I'm sorry you feel that way and I guess I was very mad. But it was always his answer. It was never....we never talked through problems. We never got to the bottom of them. It was always like it didn't exist. You know, a big...a gift or hug or kiss was going to make everything better. That's why I....so....
COUNSELOR: So when you say you still have feelings for him, what other feelings came up?
PATIENT: Well, I just....I mean, I guess I miss the affection. You know, I miss somebody being there for me. I don't (inaudible) I'm still hurting. It irritates the hell out of me. I don't know. I mean after all this time, it just irritates me.
COUNSELOR: You were feeling anything else about it? 00:06:13
PATIENT: There was no sexual thing. No, I just....it's just a feeling of being alone and a feeling of....he just didn't come through for me. He was....he said one thing and he did another. He wasn't really there for me and...and the thing...I don't...I don't even think he had the stand. I don't think he gets it. I don't think he.....he just doesn't have the capacity. I think it just....I think it just...I think the relationship just (inaudible) moved it to him. Because the capacity was just....he just didn't have as much capacity to love or to care or...I.... that's the way I see it. And I don't like being around people who....I don't know. I guess it's just a lack of intensity...I don't know...maybe I'm too intense. I don't know. People, again, it's like my family. People who don't deal with conflict and in the end, are just self protected and will go to any extreme to protect themselves. And I find that extremely selfish. And if you're on the receiving end of that, it is terrible and, on top of it....because they don't want to deal with it, they...they don't understand. They're not even in a place where they know they're doing it. You know? So....
COUNSELOR: So what you're experiencing with him feels familiar in some way? Like you've been down that road before? 00:07:52
PATIENT: Again. I guess, yes.
COUNSELOR: You mentioned your parents?
PATIENT: Yeah. And then I...then I guess the part (ph) (inaudible) maybe I'm too demanding. Maybe I expect too much. I just...
COUNSELOR: Expect too much (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Well, then (inaudible) people say maybe you have too many expectations about people. I don't know. I don't know. That just irritates me. (inaudible) Oh, how are you? (inaudible) And I still debate the validity from (inaudible) I don't know where this is getting. I don't know.... I mean, I do think I'm in touch with my feelings, pretty much. And to discuss them with you, I don't know whether it's helping or not. And my pressure with time is just of the essence and you know, I don't get things that I need to get accomplished and it's frustrating to me. I like...one day (inaudible) Thursday and I'm running around like a banshee. And I didn't get things done today that I needed to get done. I mean, I know we said in the beginning (inaudible) the idea of this was for me to become aware of my feelings. Well, I don't know....you said I'm aware of them. It's just working through them. It's getting....it's having a life that I like better and doing things that make me feel better and I don't know whether talking about them and getting in touch of the emotions... I mean I got in touch with this emotion about Dean before I got here telling you again I don't think it helps. It didn't ...I don't see if I could benefit. So I don't know what to say. I mean.... 00:09:46
COUNSELOR: So why do you keep coming?
PATIENT: Because, I don't know. I want...like I'm hoping that you'll...something you'll say to me will make me think, okay, it's worthwhile and I don't know what to....I....
COUNSELOR: Somehow I would say that it's worthwhile?
PATIENT: (inaudible) something that you would say would make me say yes, she's right, that's why I'm here. I mean tell me why I'm here again. I mean I first started coming here because of the situation with my parents which has practically alleviated itself. I mean nothings going to happen to change with my brother and my mother and father and I are on pretty good terms, I mean, except for the brother thing and it's just not discussed. I mean, it's not ideal but I don't feel like they've abandoned me or turned their back on me so that's settled. The menopausal thing, I am...I do realize that I blow up emotions...that they have more intensity and are little bit blown out of proportion. But I'm going to an acupuncturist after I see you, I have exercise classes, I'm having treatments with Seth, I'm taking a (inaudible) Hopefully, things are going to start falling into place a little bit. I had a couple good days this week from the exercising and Seth's treatment. So...and it's not like I don't know what's going on in my life. I do. I mean the reason why I haven't been able to get a handle on work is because of the way I felt physically. I've got to get a handle on that (inaudible) anything else. I mean, I would like a man in my life but I've got to get myself in order a little bit more physically before I give that (inaudible) 00:11:23
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I don't know (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: You seem...my sense is you seem to want me to convince you to stay.
PATIENT: Well....
COUNSELOR: Like I have an explanation for why you're here that you don't.
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe.
COUNSELOR: How could I have that?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Is your expectation, at this point, that I know you better than you?
PATIENT: No, I don't think you know....do I think that you know me better than I do? No.
COUNSELOR: Then how could I know your reasons for being here any better than you do?
PATIENT: Well, because you know the process better than I do. And the way you work and you've seen people start in the middle and an end to process so that you...you have some barometer of how things unfold. Generally speaking....although it's different for each person. You know?
COUNSELOR: So that my experience should give me some edge on understanding where you are with this?
PATIENT: Yeah. And whether you perceive me improving or getting in touch better the more we do or...I don't know. You know?
COUNSELOR: Well, I feel that its....you said its somewhat of a catch 22 for you...that...or a double edged sword or whatever you want to call it but there...what tends to happen consistently is you do come in and question why you're here....
PATIENT: I know and .... 00:13:05
COUNSELOR: ....you expect for me to give you answers about that but what happens in the process as we explore this, you seem to get in touch with feelings that you've been keeping at bay. I'm thinking two weeks ago, it was quite an intense session in my memory in terms of you getting in touch with some very profound feelings of sadness that you...you weren't; as aware of as you seem to be...you know, saying that you are today. And so what happens is you get in touch with these intense feelings and then something goes on with that between that session and when I see you next and then you come in the next session kind of all ready to....my sense is to argue with me about what am I doing here? As if you're coming for me, in a sense.
PATIENT: As if what?
COUNSELOR: As if you're coming for me instead of for you.
PATIENT: Oh, right.
COUNSELOR: Is how I'm experiencing that. There's like a demand that I convince you why you should be here.
PATIENT: Why I have to be here.
COUNSELOR: Why you should be helping you. What's the tear in (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Well, because I...you know, and again it...maybe it has to do with the ***damn banquet (ph)...I don't know. It's just that I don't feel better after I leave. I mean, maybe I said that to you once or twice but generally speaking, I don't feel better after I leave. 00:14:33
COUNSELOR: Then maybe that's not a realistic expectation. Coming to therapy isn't going to get a vitamin B12 shot.
PATIENT: Right. I know. I know.
COUNSELOR: You know? It's a process.
PATIENT: (overlapping voices) resolved. I mean I don't feel like there's any resolution. And I question the validity of getting in touch with the feelings because they don't feel physically good after this. I mean, like when I saw him today and I got annoyed, my whole energy completely changed. I could feel everything just drop. I mean I couldn't...I was dropping things; I went to the bank; there was total confusion. I, you know...I wound up making mistakes and then backtracking and getting to the health club and I thought what the f*** do I need to get in touch with that feeling with him. It's over. You know? I mean I went through it with him. I don't want to deal with the crap anymore.
COUNSELOR: Yeah but, Maddie, sometimes it isn't a question of getting in touch with feelings, it's a question of allowing ourselves to have the feelings that are there.
PATIENT: But I had them. Why rehash them?
COUNSELOR: But what makes you think you can stop them from happening? I mean, is that the dichotomy that's getting set up now? That you know if you come to therapy you're going to be aware of these feelings that you don't want to be having...these unpleasant feelings and if you don't come to therapy, you're going to be safe from them? You're not going to feel them? 00:16:06
PATIENT: Well, because I feel feelings ongoing all the time. I mean, I think I'm in touch with my feelings. It's just not to the degree....to the intensity that I'm in touch with them like you. You know, I'm aware of the loneliness; I'm aware of the fear of not having security with my money; I'm aware of all of it. It isn't like I walk around in a cloud and I think everything is fine. I'm aware of it. But what I'm questioning is how important it is for me to get into this...the deepness of them; the intensity of them and then walk out and go on with my life. And I mean, that's what I don't quite get and what it does to me physically is draining.
COUNSELOR: And you want to come to therapy and feel better?
PATIENT: I don't want it to be, you know, fun and games but I don't want to have this kind of depletion that I feel physically after and that's what I feel. And I don't know whether that everybody has that and this is just par for the course...I guess, again, what I was thinking of was people like this guy Dean and my parents, who don't get in touch much, seem pretty happy. He certainly seemed pretty happy today. Everything was fine....hi, how are you? So him not getting in touch...I don't know whether he's so bad off for it. So I don't know. I mean it seems to me there was a time when I was in therapy (inaudible) 00:17:38 I don't really know much about him, when I would get in touch with stuff, I would feel kind of...you know, it would be during (inaudible) but I would leave felling better; not euphoric; not as in everything great but relieved. You know, like oh, I'm glad I got in touch with that. I don't have that sense this time and I'm not saying it's you or the process, I think it's where I'm at physically. That it just doesn't make me feel good. And that's that I'm questioning; whether at this particular point in my life with my physicality being the way it is, whether I've got (inaudible). And I'm torn because I think, well, let's get...you know, like I want to say let's get through this so that I come out at the other end feeling better but I'm concerned about what it's doing to me physically. (inaudible) Last week I went (inaudible) last week was my birthday. Oh, no, I didn't come. I went to an acupuncture treatment and had an acupuncture treatment and it just wiped me out. You know, I went out with a friend to a play and...it was this play called Three Tall (ph) Women about aging and oh, god! Anyhow, this is a depressing play (inaudible) and I just felt like shit. I mean, I was very depressed and I felt terrible...I was with this friend (inaudible) I just really feel depressed and I said that play was like pure tedium and I went home and I thought oh, god, I don't know, you know? Like these (inaudible) that I'm going through don't seem to be helping. 00:19:06
COUNSELOR: So, you've got a mixed experience and you've drawn toward these things that you hope will help but then....when you do them, they end up making you feel worse.
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess I'm looking to you for answers that you can't give me (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Well, I certainly can't give you guarantees that you're not going to feel worse before you get better and that...I can't give you guarantees that when you come in here and you do start to explore some of these things, that you won't get into, you know, deeper realms of feelings that are upsetting for you. I mean, my experience so far has been that when you allow yourself to get in touch with the sadder feelings or the fearful feelings in here about your future or regrets about your past or feelings of dissatisfaction in general about your life and concerns about the future, that it does get very difficult for you to just kind of be with those feelings.
PATIENT: Because they feel more intense than they used to (inaudible) They feel heavier.
COUNSELOR: And...and so is it your hope that if you don't allow yourself to look at it in...with a microscope that you won't be aware of how.....
PATIENT: No. My hope is that.... 00:20:41
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) more typical it is?
PATIENT: ...my hope is that if I get physically stronger, I'll be able to get in touch with them in a way that won't drain me. And I'm questioning what it does to me physically. Not that I'm a (inaudible) in terms...I mean I guess it should (inaudible) getting in touch with the, you know, bad feelings but I don't really think that's what it is. I think I have the courage to do it.
COUNSELOR: Well, how is therapy affecting you physically then (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: I get...I'm wiped out when I (inaudible) I just get wiped out. I'm just physically exhausted.
COUNSELOR: But is your concern that that's damaging to you in some way?
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: How?
PATIENT: It's like I....I can't...I mean I can barely function (inaudible) I mean I'm just...I'm not good for anything. I mean I go home and I don't do much. I can't...I just can't get myself motivated. I'm just exhausted. I don't....I mean I just....
COUNSELOR: How is that different than your days off when you're not coming to therapy?
PATIENT: I have more...well, I mean there are days when I don't have as much energy as I would like but it's getting a little bit better, but I'm better physically. I'm not good after I see you...until the next day and then....I get a fairly good night's sleep then I feel halfway decent the next day but I don't....from the time I leave you to the time I go to sleep, I'm not in very good shape. For example, my girlfriend wants to take me out to dinner tonight for my birthday and I said, I have to tell you. I don't' know how I'm going to feel. I'm going to therapy and I tell her about what it does to me physically and I said I'm going to acupuncture and if I feel up to it, I'll go with you otherwise, I can't (inaudible) and it's not like I'm being, like you know, overly protective...it's a reality. 00:22:29
COUNSELOR: Well, we know there's a lot there for you around this whole issue about what may or may not be causing physical problems or what may or may not be jeopardizing your physically health. You mentioned many times you are concerned about that...you're concerned that you could kind of....what's going on right now?
PATIENT: I just....
COUNSELOR: Describe the feelings that are coming up? 00:23:02
PATIENT: (crying to 00:23:28)
COUNSELOR: Can you put some words to that?
PATIENT: I don't like dealing (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: And I feel every time I get into this state I feel (inaudible) And I think part of it is. I can't...I mean I don't think you quite believe that. I'm telling you it's just....there's a physical component in there that makes the feelings more intense. I have not been myself for a while. Do you know what I mean? Like it's like when you have bad PMS or something (inaudible) do it that way, you know. It's just more intense. So there's this...this (inaudible) just exaggeration and it's...I hate that, you know?
COUNSELOR: So you still think that I don't appreciate the physical component of it?
PATIENT: (overlapping voices) Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: I wonder what gives you that feeling? We've talked about the...I've tried to clarify with you that I.... 00:24:36
PATIENT: Because you haven't experienced it yourself, I'm guessing and I don't think anybody can really understand unless (inaudible) I mean, somebody could tell me about this a couple years ago and I would have said, gee, that's a shame and I'd feel badly for you but I wouldn't be able to understand. I mean the women that I talk to who are going through menopause...it's like, one woman who working (inaudible) it makes me so much...feel so much better when I talk to you because I don't feel like I'm crazy. I don't get the same sorts of feelings. It's kind of exaggerated now; crying; it's just this (inaudible) mirror and she cries. You know, it's like.... You know what I mean? So to be going through therapy at this point, is just questionable to me.
COUNSELOR: Well, I...you know...I really feel the frustration that you're feeling with it. And I'm glad that you're telling me about it, you know. I mean there's nothing we can do with it if you're not talking about it but I just have to say I....my experience with these conversations is that somehow you want me to convince you that this is the right thing for you to be doing yet everything you tell me when we get into these discussions is that it's not. So, you know, I can't help but feel as if there's a part of you that really wants for this to be helpful.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that...that wish and that hope kind of gets.... 00:26:21
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. I mean, I'm not clear about it. I mean if I were clear about it, I wouldn't be going on like this. I just...I don't know. I....
COUNSELOR: See I still don't really see the....I understand in my mind. I understand what you're saying...this connection between somehow going deeper into the feelings here, you know, wears you out and you're worried about the impact that it's having on you physically and perhaps it's even exaggerated some of the menopausal symptoms or whatever or that maybe you should be doing other things on your days off that you know might alleviate some of the stress you're feeling like that as opposed to creating more. I mean I understand conceptually what you're saying with that but my experience of the way, you know....accessing and expressing feelings works is the opposite of that. So when you say it to me it's like it doesn't...it just doesn't gel. It doesn't click for me because for most people....
PATIENT: They feel bad.
COUNSELOR: Pursuing feelings and going into them and allowing yourself to, if nothing else, just ventilate them and hopefully we should be doing more than that but even doing that alone, is often very relieving....for any kind of physical ailment.
PATIENT: But it isn't. I'm telling you it isn't.
COUNSELOR: And that's why it makes me wonder what else is there that we haven't looked at and the one thing that does come into mind for me over and over again is that there seems to be a lot of trepidation on your part about looking at this stuff. So, you come in here...it's almost like you can't not get in touch with the sad feelings but then when you do, you like fight with yourself not to go down that road and that itself, you know....that conflict....that fighting.....that battle that goes on for you....that in itself is the only thing I can think of that might be contributing more to the exhaustion and the stress...it should be like (overlapping voices) 00:28:44
PATIENT: And not....and not metaphors. See once again....see you don't believe metaphors have any...any thing for it. I mean it had no affect on it.
COUNSELOR: Well, I wasn't not thinking of that but I'm curious what...why you assume that I....that....
PATIENT: Well, because you just said that you can't understand why....why I don't feel relieved and better after I do this and I'm telling you that because it physically exhausts me, I think it has something to do with the hormonal imbalance and that it's not.....it's like a drop in blood sugar, kind of ....if I can equate it to that.
COUNSELOR: How would you feel if you convinced me that this was all physical?
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm not saying it is all physical. I didn't say that to you. It's not all....I don't think it all physical.
COUNSELOR: Okay, then what if I say...you know, obviously what's happening with you is....these are menopausal responses?
PATIENT: Menopausal responses....you mean the reaction to getting in touch with the feelings, you mean? I mean how I fell after I get in touch with the feelings?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. How you feel after the sessions.
PATIENT: It would make me feel like you....I guess that you understood more about what was going on and why these feelings seem so intense, for one thing. And why I'm hesitant to get in touch with them. Because what I'm saying to you is I am not so sure that the intensity comes from an emotional deep down.
COUNSELOR: But why does it have to come from one or the other? Why can't it be an interaction? 00:30:14
PATIENT: Because I don't....if you try and get in touch with feelings, and it's always a scary process, I think, to a degree with people when it's painful stuff and you're getting in touch with them and all of a sudden they're much deeper and more...bigger than you thought and you realize that this is blown out of proportion....that somehow it's not as bad as you think it is. I mean it doesn't seem like the appropriate time to be doing it.
COUNSELOR: Are you feeling that in general? Do you feel that at other times? All week long?
PATIENT: Yes, I feel that all the time.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel it....
PATIENT: I feel it all the time that there's this kind of....I just...I'm just sensitive. There's just this kind of sensitivity and I hate feeling like a little frail, sensitive person but it's just this kind of sensitivity. But I'm lucky enough that I have a job where I don't have to deal with all this politics and stuff that might be confrontational or....the most I have to deal with is clients who are pleasant people. There's no, you know....it may be long hours but I'm not dealing with anything that's difficult emotionally. And if I keep my days like that and I get together with friends when I can....when there's a certain order to my life, it's okay. But when something conflicted comes up or harsh, like this thing with Dean...I mean my whole physiology is (makes a sucking noise). It's like (inaudible)...just goes into a tailspin. And it takes a while to recoup from. 00:31:44
COUNSELOR: Well, let me just ask you if you'd be willing to entertain the idea that part of [might be happening] (ph) with you is a reaction that's hormonal and that part of it is a resistance to being able to tolerate the strong feelings that come up.
PATIENT: No, I think (inaudible) I think that's believable. I'm just still a little bit concerned about the (inaudible) doing to me physically and if it's worth doing this to me and I would feel badly about stopping. Somehow there's a part of me that wouldn't like to just (inaudible) because I don't like to not follow through with something and it's like I've got one foot on one side and one foot (inaudible) and there's another part of me that saying just take care of yourself (inaudible) Do your business; get your self in order with your apartment and...there's so many things I have to do (inaudible) make your day off like a feel good day (inaudible) because you don't have that much time for yourself. That's (inaudible) you feel better the next day. I don't feel better the next day.
COUNSELOR: Well, yeah. I mean I understand that that's scary and that doesn't promote a lot of confidence in this.
PATIENT: But I just am aware of the fact that some people don't...their physical being doesn't....doesn't seem to get quite a zap by emotions. This guy Dean is a fair example.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I'm telling you that my physical...my physical body doesn't do well with stress. It just doesn't. I've seen it happen over and over and over. It doesn't make me feel great. I'm feeling sorry for myself right now.
COUNSELOR: You're feeling (inaudible) 00:34:00
PATIENT: I'm just feeling sorry for myself. (inaudible to 00:34:16)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) I'm not sure that you won't feel, you know, that I truly appreciate the level of that faith (ph). You know, I can (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: I fell like I...I guess...you know what it is...maybe what I'm doing is maybe it is transference (inaudible) Maybe it's that I don't think he (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: You would like for him to understand (inaudible) kind of like everything's okay with him? Your up (ph) and (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well, I don't see him. I just (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: But today when (inaudible)
PATIENT: I said you look great (inaudible) very, very (inaudible) You know I guess it seemed to me like he's able to bounce back...actually (inaudible) 00:35:53 together (inaudible) (quiet)
COUNSELOR: How could the last man in your life not be important to you? I mean even if you're no longer interested in pursuing a relationship; it's the last...he represents the last time you had that kind of attention and affection and connection.
PATIENT: But I should have moved on.
COUNSELOR: You're hard on yourself, Rebecca.
PATIENT: (inaudible) 00:36:49
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Like I want to tell him how much, you know, hurt (inaudible) part of me wants to hurt him.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I think I did hurt him by saying (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Which part of (overlapping voices)?
PATIENT: The part about (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Right. (inaudible) wanting to let him (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean...I...yeah, I mean I wanted him to....yeah, I guess. I didn't...I wasn't even....I didn't even care whether I was thinking clearly. All I knew was that it annoyed me when he did it and I wanted him to know (inaudible) can't make things better with his little hugs and his gifts (inaudible) say I love you (inaudible) It all seems self indulgent to me too. I mean I can remember when my brother was (inaudible) with the alcohol and I went to an AA meeting and he used that line, you know, after he went to his first AA meeting...they're all so self indulgent, you know. And I remember being in a place at that point knowing that that wasn't the case. But knowing the he was using it as a defense so obviously, that's what I'm doing but it seems self (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Why did you need to use that defense right now? To kind of label...label your feelings.... 00:38:20
PATIENT: I guess I hate feeling weak. And I feel very vulnerable. I feel very weak. Sometimes....I don't feel like this all the time, Janice. (inaudible) I mean I don't know whether it's worth getting in touch with...I didn't feel like this yesterday. I felt great yesterday. You know I really felt good. Do you see what I'm saying? It isn't that I just see you on off days. Do you know what I'm saying? It's like I immediately come in here and I...you know, the feelings are right there. So maybe I shouldn't be stirring up the pot.
COUNSELOR: Or maybe you feel this is a safe place to get in touch with them. I mean obviously, if you're stirring up the pot and you know, you have a difficult 12 hours or 24 hours even past your session, you seem to...it doesn't seem to stick with you beyond that during the week...or does it?
PATIENT: What you....well....
COUNSELOR: I mean you feel like it's wiping you out more during the week? (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Well, I...because I question if I had a day like today where we're doing things just to make myself feel better but I might feel better tomorrow.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) but I think that's another issue. Clearly, you need more time to take care of yourself in those sorts of ways but that...I mean....
PATIENT: But I don't have it.
COUNSELOR: You don't have it? No. But maybe we should talk about why you don't have it.
PATIENT: I...because I can't. I mean I have to make a living. And this is not being a workaholic. I just...I can't. I mean I only get two days off; that's it. And the other days, I just don't have time to do stuff...I don't know what I'm doing. It's...I start at 9:30 in the morning (inaudible) taking calls and I get done usually (inaudible) 9:00 o'clock at night. 00:40:20 Business is good so maybe it's (inaudible) you know, where I'll get to a point where I will....you know, (inaudible) I get so tired and so exhausted.
COUNSELOR: It's a lot for you to carry on your own.
PATIENT: I think (inaudible) 00:40:45
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm going to say it again at the risk of you getting irritated again but I don't...I don't think it's the feelings themselves that are exhausting you. I think it's the conflict about having the feelings. It's the fight against the feelings. So, in other words, the frustration or the fear or the anger comes up and boom, there's something that blocks it right away that says don't feel this; knock it off. You're feeling sorry for yourself. You're indulgent. You're weak. All those labels come up and so what you've got going on immediately is this big battle inside and that's what's exhausting. That's absolutely exhausting. And then, as you say, you know that there's....the hormonal thing kicks in too and you've got exaggerated conflict going on. I mean I hear you saying, you know, I need ore soothing; I need more taking care of myself; it feels good; it feels...and obviously, you do. Clearly you do. But I'm not convinced that....that the way to find that is to try and make a detour around this conflict. 00:42:00 (quiet to 00:42:13)
PATIENT:(?) I hear what you're saying (inaudible)
PATIENT: The reality of this neediness, you know? I hate the reality...just where I am; it's just...I hate it. [This was a guy] (ph) (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: How did that hug feel?
PATIENT: (inaudible) feel it.
COUNSELOR: You don't even let yourself....
PATIENT: (inaudible) I think it's just the fact that he just (inaudible) It's like you want people at the end of a relationship (inaudible) understand why your hurting by what they did. The fact that they don't, it's just like insult to injury. (inaudible) alone (inaudible) Then that guy Seth that I told you about. He's been carrying a torch for this girl at work (inaudible) 00:43:57 Anyhow he's wondering why I got so tired at treatments because he gives me a massage treatment and I'm like a drunk...I can't function which is not the usually thing that happens with me. Then he commented I think I'm going to try (inaudible) he said I can't believe you. I have to allow a good two hours before I see him (inaudible) and I...you know, I tell...periodically, he mentions about the teeth (ph) and stuff and you know, I say, Seth to be perfectly honest with you I'm going through menopause and it's a pain in the ass because I have erratic...I have mood swings and I have energy swings that are just...come out of left field and I just have to just...I don't know what I said, but anyhow, what that did and I think I did it for this reason; to make him aware of the age difference. What that did to him was make him...I think, all of a sudden see the age difference. In a (inaudible) for older women, you know, he's a young guy. And he said (makes a noise) and then when I said it he said well, that's just something you just have to go through...you just have to go through....like he didn't know what to say, you know? And I think that....I think that really kind of put the kibosh on anything (inaudible) happened between Kelly and that kind of was, you know, a bit of a downer for me too. It was just...and I don't...maybe...a bit of a fantasy with this guy. I mean definitely been feeling (inaudible) but I think I was going (inaudible) and that's kind of disappointing. You know?
COUNSELOR: So you kind of put the stops on that?
PATIENT: Well, I think I did indirectly because I thought I couldn't deal with the relationship with this guy. I mean not only is there 15 years difference between us but going through this on top of it, and trying to deal with it and be a....and....I just don't think I could deal with it right now. So I think that was my way....I didn't at the time realize it but I think that's what I was doing; let him know this; I want him to know this.
COUNSELOR: You've never had that kind of response to treatments before? 00:46:07
PATIENT: No. It's just...I mean not to the degree that I'm having it now.
COUNSELOR: Did you get a physical yet? We talked weeks ago about you getting a physical.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: Because I don't believe...quite frankly, (inaudible) but I'm thoroughly (ph) convinced it's menopause. This is not something that was going on before I started and I don't believe in the conventional ways of dealing with it so I mean I'm...I'm not going to take estrogen and I'm not going to take the stuff that they would, I think, prescribe and I don't think my heart is bad and I don't think (inaudible) and I don't think I have anything...a really serious illness.
COUNSELOR: You've never been anemic before?
PATIENT: No, I don't have anemia. I work with a nutritionist. I'm not anemic. No. I mean at least I wasn't (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: So are you ....
PATIENT: I'm taking iron supplements.
COUNSELOR: You are?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I'm taking loads of vitamins. I mean I'm doing what I need to do and I don't have any....I've had....in fact a year ago I had a lot of tests because I had parasites and stuff and there was nothing that was abnormal. I have a heart murmur but it's a mild heart murmur; it's nothing serious. So I don't really think that there's anything serious (inaudible) and I have times when I really feel good but it's short lived. Just (inaudible) but I'm trying to get a handle on this exercise and this week I exercised at night which I was hesitant to do because I get all the energy at night and I didn't do aerobics....I just did machines and I felt better (inaudible). I slept better and I felt better and I thought this may work. It might be better for me when I have more energy to do the exercise. At the end of the day, change the energy from work...even though I'm doing it at 9:00 o'clock at night. The health club is quiet so this might work. So I'm trying to figure out ways to deal with it. I had a treatment with Seth one day...an acupuncture....I'm putting the pieces together. I'm upping the progesterone oil...the natural stuff that I'm using, so it might work. But then I come in here and I feel like a dishrag. 00:48:15
COUNSELOR: How do you feel now?
PATIENT: Still like a dishrag.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about what we talked about today?
PATIENT: Unresolved. I guess, you know, it's an impatience. It's like okay I spilled my guts; let's get the resolution. I question the actual process. Whether it's (inaudible) process that's fixed...that will be helpful to me. I'm not sure of that. (inaudible) hands on, constructive thing. I....maybe it's just...it is fear and (inaudible) running away from it because I don't want to deal with it, I'm sure.
COUNSELOR: You say you're sure but....
PATIENT: I mean I'm sure that's part of it.
COUNSELOR: Would you like to have a better understanding of what that conflict is about? That fight that goes on within you every time you allow yourself to start having these intense feelings?
PATIENT: Sure. I mean I know part of it is because I'm afraid of being vulnerable and afraid of the intensity and afraid of the weakness that it brings out; a fear of being probably like my mother; that I'm all show and (inaudible) strong. (inaudible) strong on the inside (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Well, that sounds like a knowledge that you have. That sounds like one of those insights that, as you say, you know, I know what I'm feeling. How is this going to help that? 00:49:52
PATIENT: Right. But, alright, so now I just got in deeper about stuff with (inaudible) but I don't think that makes me feel any better. I mean I don't mean that I should be running out of the door elated, but I knew that. What I told you I already knew. At some point, I have experienced the loneliness; I've experienced the wanting to have someone there for me; I've experienced the withdrawal from that kind of physical affection; I (inaudible) was all there. So getting in touch with that....that here, (inaudible) you know? Would a good cry at home been just the same?
COUNSELOR: Right. Maybe, maybe. But my understanding of some of the things that, you know, you haven't felt so clear about....such as your concerns that maybe some of your work focus in some way, inhibits you from getting the rest of your life....getting other things that could be fulfilling....
PATIENT: Except it really is a situation where it's a catch 22. I've got to get enough...I have to be making enough money to have an savings account; to have, you know, a little bit of security. My health insurance just went up $150 a month. You know...all this stuff. It's not like (inaudible) I have to get myself on some solid ground financially before I have that luxury of giving work to other people that I don't want to do. I have to get....I have to find another accountant too which is (inaudible) So a workaholic...I think, I mean...there's no two ways about the fact that I, in some ways, got involved too much with my work because it's been easier to do that than to deal with a personal life or any problems that I might have in an intimate relationship....I don't know but I'm just at a point now where it's not that I'm just working for the sake of working. I'm working because I have to. 00:52:06
COUNSELOR: No...I...yeah, I understand that. I understand that.
PATIENT: But that's...on my day off I would like a little bit more feel good stuff and my days off seem to be involved with work. (inaudible) coming in. I don't look at this as feel good. I look at this as oh, god, (inaudible) do this (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Well, there's something that I think is worth looking at more. In terms of this whole feeling, like you know, what's the point of getting into the feelings here. I might as well have a good cry (inaudible) In terms of what....what it means for you to be going through this with another person. Part of what you seem to be experiencing so much pain about in your life is that you carry a heavy load; the burden is always yours. Not that you don't have people in your life and friends and the people that you know you work (ph) on and come to...close with but that ultimately you end up feeling like this is really...I'm really in this alone. 00:53:27
PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: Yet there's.....and when you come here, I sense that there's, you know...that you're willing to let me in on this....that's not a problem for you but I'm not sure how much your willing or able to kind of acknowledge sharing it with me.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's true. I think it's because I think maybe I put on this...this front or whatever you want to call it in work as we all do to a degree so I'm so used to being alone that to break that down in front of another person (inaudible) and I guess there's part of me that says (inaudible) Nobody really helps (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: That's kind of the sense (overlapping voices) that I get
PATIENT: I mean it's like when I walked in with you today was because I didn't (inaudible) In the end it wasn't (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: You know I love you and really (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: So that experience kind of gets translated into the cynicism (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Today it did. Today it did. You know, (overlapping voices)
COUNSELOR: You know because...I mean I have to say there's this...I don't really get the sense of how much you leave this stuff with me. You know? I mean it's like you come in and you really unburden a lot in terms of what you're feeling then your experience is you kind of wrap it all up and you take it home. I mean I'm not saying that you could not do that but.... 00:55:11
PATIENT: But in other words, give it to you, you mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I feel like...
PATIENT: That's interesting.
COUNSELOR: ...like where does that piece go?
PATIENT: I don't feel like that's what I'm supposed to do....give it to you. Am I supposed to give it to you?
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean obviously...I mean it's kind of an abstract concept. Obviously, it's your life and it's you and you take you with you. You're not really going to leave it here but it...but on an emotional level, you know, you are sharing a lot of very painful, frustrating feelings with me and I don't get the sense that there's...that there's....
PATIENT: A letting go.
COUNSELOR: Which sometimes can happen.
PATIENT: Yeah, you know, and I think I told you somewhere along the line that I'm sure (inaudible) as my mother would say that from time to time, I (inaudible) I acted up. It's not like I remember that since I was a child but I do remember that there was this...physical vulnerability. That's why I'm so afraid of being physically vulnerable (inaudible) That's what scares me when (inaudible) awareness of sometimes....some way of being frail and not being able to cope or, you know....so then you took those feelings represent my being like my mother (overlapping voices) 00:56:44
COUNSELOR: Being like her or being concerned that you'll drain her if you (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Well, I mean part of...I was saying two things there. Part of my not letting go is, I think, probably because of my...maybe some...some, I mean I'm guessing at this but something like if I...I can't burden somebody else with this stuff because they'll physically fall apart or they can't handle it. And quite often that happens to me when somebody does it to me, you see. Remember I was telling you that she (overlapping voices) tell me things, I absorb stuff.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) Yeah.
PATIENT: So, I...it happens to me so I think it's going to happen to other people and I had this experience with my mother where she couldn't deal with any type of conflict or anything and I would see her physically get worse because of her Muscular Distrophy or whatever because she just...her nervous system was just so frail. And when I feel this kind of frail...frail...I just think oh, god, I just don't want to be like that. And I'm all....I have the business and I don't have sick time and I've got to be strong and you know, I want a relationship...yet I feel so vulnerable right now that I would be hesitant to even get involved with a man right now because of that. I'm just not together enough to do it right now. So this kind of stuck on me but that's an interesting point in that my not letting go and that might be...I mean I don't know how I physically let go of it other than to just go into it and just do it, right? I just.... 00:58:21
COUNSELOR: Well, I think it has a lot.....
PATIENT: I feel like you're helping me.
COUNSELOR: I think it has a lot to do with us.
PATIENT: Relationship.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think that's worth us pursuing more.
PATIENT: Feel like...feeling like your there for me and that you'll help me with this.
COUNSELOR: And that I can handle it. That I'm not, you know, going to be all alone; that I'm not, you know, going to say don't...don't do this to me.
PATIENT: I was thinking, you know....see if in fact your doing (inaudible) and not that I don't think you have compassion and understanding, but if your demeanor was less professional and more a friend (inaudible) I would feel better about it (inaudible) stroking me. I don't know. Maybe I would be more apt to (inaudible) but because you're making the neutral demeanor...maybe there's a little bit of resentment that you can do that.
COUNSELOR: And maybe you're not sure that I can.
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, let's keep talking about that. We're out of time for today.
PATIENT: Oh, god...okay. 00:60:00
END TRANSCRIPT
