Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: We don't have any checks, so I have um, a just like a cash order from a bank. Sorry.
THERAPIST: That's okay.
CLIENT: They never gave us checks, and then we just never ordered checks.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: (sighs) Hi, how are you?
THERAPIST: Good thank you.
CLIENT: Good. I just can't shake this cold. Ah, gosh. So I'm a little tired. I just got back to Boston last night. Went to that party at my friend's house, which was great and much better than I, well not better, but as good as I could have hoped. It was, it was not really awkward and then... It was fine. So I was good. I umm... yeah. [00:01:07]
You know, the guy that I (inaudible at 00:01:14), he brought his new girlfriend. So I think that prevented a lot of possible, maybe awkward things (inaudible at 00:01:29). But, yeah it was good. And I was telling my girlfriend when we left, it was kind of — it felt good for me to... Usually in those situations I kind of crumble, and I'm not very strong, and I get really emotional, and then some, you know probably get upset at some point. Um, but I, it, you know I felt really in control and really just not intimated like would usually feel. [00:02:04]
I'd usually feel self-conscious and "Oh my goodness," and, you know, "What should I say, and what should I do, and how should I act?" And there was some of that, and I just felt like leaving. It was good for me to prove to myself that I've kind of, maybe grown a little and changed, and then able to put myself in these situations that I didn't used to feel very comfortable in. [00:02:30]
Um, and it was also good for me to see Ben and to see that he is not a person that really deserves any wasted thought in my head. I kind of, I think, um, changed some of his qualities in my head. And I'm...,well haven't seen him for a year, or two years. And seeing him again made me realize; well, yeah you kind of (inaudible at 00:03:02) not made up, but idealized it a little bit. And maybe there was a reason why everything surrounding him was so gross. And it was really good to see that and to be... I was like; alright, it is time to let this all go. So that kind of felt great.
And yeah, it is a little unfortunate though because Chris was very hesitant about me going because he knows the history with Ben. And he didn't want to come because for whatever reason, I don't think he felt comfortable, staying in a house that he knew, Ben was going to be in too, staying overnight and everything. So he stayed here, and when I was leaving he kept saying, you know, "I don't think..." You know, he was just being a grouch. And like I said, you know, "What going on? What's the matter?" And he just said that he didn't want, you know, he didn't think it was maybe the most appropriate thing for me to be going. And I just didn't really agree with it being inappropriate, and I tried to tell him that. I just didn't think it was inappropriate for me to go to the party with my friends. [00:04:37]
And so he's still been kind of cold and standoffish. And I don't know if he just doesn't trust me, I think that is probably most of it. And so now we're trying to, you know... I'm just, I know that he's kind of grouchy, but when he's like that and I know that there's no valid reason, I just kind of act like nothing's wrong. (chuckling) And so that's the one I'm kind of; bummer, get over it. [00:05:11]
THERAPIST: Is he grouchy because he wanted to spend New Year's with you? Or...
CLIENT: That's the thing. He doesn't even like New Year's. He tells me every year how he thinks it's so stupid. But no, he's grouchy because I went. He was invited to come to the party. I don't know. I asked him. He said that, yeah he wishes that I would stay. He didn't even say that he wished I would stay. He just said that he didn't think I should go. So I don't think that it's even, I really don't think that it is that he wishes that I would have been here for him for New Year's. I think that he wishes I wouldn't have gone and stayed in the house overnight where Ben was staying overnight. [00:06:02]
But that's just what I think. I don't know. Um, so yeah, it was good. But during the night my brother called. My brother John. And he was very drunk, which was very upsetting. And then getting very upset, and I don't even know why I got upset because it wasn't really that big of a surprise. But um, yeah, he was just, he was, he never...
It was 10 o'clock at night and he's clearly been drinking for hours. [00:06:56]
And I was on the phone with him and his girlfriend, and her friend had come back to his apartment to get ready. And he was like, it's like, I can hear him being a jerk. Making rude remarks to, my brother, to his girlfriend's friend. Just saying, just rude things. And it was really unsettling. I just, you know, I didn't like that image of him. And you know he shouldn't... He just had this medical issue surrounding his binge drinking and then he's binging again. And it's just like, I don't know. I just got really upset, and I'm you know, I went and, went by myself for a little with my best friend Chrissie, and just cried for a minute.
And you know I recognize that there is nothing I can do in these situations. And there is nothing that he's asking me for, and there's nothing that I can really even offer him. It's just so upsetting. [00:08:00]
So I don't really... There's nothing even, I don't know, there is nothing else for me to do. (sighs deeply)
THERAPIST: Does it make you feel helpless?
CLIENT: Yeah. Um, and just very frustrated because I just... I wasn't even hopeful that this was something that was going to change. You know, I've been saying this whole time, "If you're not, if you're not trying to make yourself better, it is not going to get better." And so I didn't think anything was going to get better, but it's just so quick, like this, you know. (crying) See that makes me feel pretty, pretty helpless and frustrated. And equal parts of me want to talk to him and don't want to talk to him. So I'm just, I'm like. "You have this whole month to kind of.." You know he's off of school and he's not working. "And you have this whole month to get yourself together." (inaudible at 00:09:34)
That's the only thing to do now, is to figure out how to not make myself as upset about it. But I'm just going to have give it over to him, I guess. But that's not very easy for me. [00:10:05]
THERAPIST: What would you be giving over to him?
CLIENT: Control of the situation, I guess. Well it is already obviously going to go over to him, but just letting go of the kind of... I always like have a plan for him in my head and I think that that's... [00:10:30]
Like for me, this whole month, for him, should have been spent going to talk to somebody and really working on himself. Exercising and getting back into shape, doing things that he likes to do. (clears throat) And for me like I have this whole plan for him in my head, and he's not following it. And so I think like, "What are you doing? Why aren't you doing what you should be doing?" Because what I think he should be doing, you, I don't think ever we could probably agree that what he should be doing is taking care of himself. But for some reason he does... [00:11:07]
He, and at the same time, I don't think he doesn't think that he's not taking care of himself. I think he just thinks; I can just, I'm just going to not drink for a few weeks and it'll be fine. (crying) That makes me crazy. It is very frustrating. That's that. And umm, yeah, I really don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: Did you ever get your health insurance settled? [00:11:46]
CLIENT: I got my... Yeah, I got my um, like the, I got the thing from the state saying that I was approved. And then Chris, when we found out about it, was very concerned that I had filled something out wrong on the form. And not that I had filled anything out wrong, you know, he thought that I'd filled something out wrong. He was concerned that I had, at some point — because he just didn't, he just thought it was impossible that I would be approved for it because he had looked something up and we had made more, our income was higher than we should have been approved for. (yawns) And then he thought maybe at some point I had checked something that said that I couldn't get health insurance for anything else, but I could potentially get it through the school. So he was all worked up about it. [00:12:44]
And so he wanted me to ask the person that I had applied with for a copy of my application so that we could go through and look and make sure that, when I had filled it all out... So we had been waiting on that, and we got last week sometime. I think last Thursday or something. So he wanted to wait until then to make sure. And so now I can enroll, I've got to do that today. [00:13:15]
Yeah. I was very frustrated with that. (chuckling) Because I just thought like; if you had these concerns before, then why are you bringing it to... Why now when we've been waiting since September? Now it's mid-December and now suddenly you're so concerned that I had done something with the form? Why didn't you say it beforehand? So that has been frustrating with him.
But... (yawns) So yeah, I did. I have it, or I'm, I'm, I can have it. I can enroll now. So that is what I need to do today.
THERAPIST: Is there a reason that you'd pick that versus getting on his insurance, or...? [00:14:01]
CLIENT: It is so expensive to get on his insurance.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Really expensive for us because we have to enroll... As soon as I get on it, we get the family plan, and there is no dental, there is no eye care. And so I'm hoping that, with my last plan that I had through, um, — that I just got individually it had dental. I haven't been to the dentist in eight years, so I really need to...
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah. I didn't have (inaudible at 00:14:29) for the longest time. So I desperately need to go and get that taken care of. It is just, you know, whenever I think, I just didn't get it taken care of.
THERAPIST: What did you do before you nannied (sp)? [00:14:57]
CLIENT: I've always nannied (sp), and waitressed. So, since I graduated high school, I've been watching a family at least part time. Um, yeah. There has never been a period time when I haven't been. But usually with waitressing too, this is...
The job that I'm working right now is the, is the biggest commitment. You know. The, other than when I lived in Maryland, and I was living in a house with a family. This is kind of the biggest commitment. (sighing) Yeah, a lot of waitressing, a lot of nannying (sp). [00:15:51]
So... which I'm just so — I love the girls and I love, I'm just so over it. I just, it's making me... I'm really tired of going to somebody else's house and feeling like I'm kind of living in there. You know what I mean? I feel like I live in their house. And so I'm just so ... When I... It's a lot of energy to put into other people's children when all I really want to do is to have my own. So I've been feeling very tired of it, and then I feel guilty that I feel so tired of it, because I feel bad for the girls. [00:16:35]
Not that I'm doing anything bad, but I just feel like; I should be more into this, I should be more present for them, and know that I'm (inaudible at 00:16:44). (pause)
Yeah. I've been recently, you know, Chris and I often talked about after school, when he graduates and gets his job and we'll start a family, and for me that is something that is really exciting, and something that I've always really wanted. But I'm also incredibly nervous that — I think I've talked to you about this before — but, that like I'm just not going to be able to do it well. And that I'm already feeling like, well I'm not the most stable person right now. I'm not the most, I'm not very secure in myself. And so it's probably not the best environment to start trying to have a family in because I really would like to feel a little better about myself. Um, not... [00:18:05] (pause)
Um, makes me really upset, because then I think; well what if this is just kind of who you are, and you're just a person who's a little bit shaky?
THERAPIST: Shaky. How do you mean?
CLIENT: Just nervous and anxious and, you know, I hear people say all the time that the, every part of your personality is just heightened when you have kids. And I think like; oh god what if that anxious part of me just goes out of control and I just kind of lose it? What if I end up being that mom who drowned her kids in the bathtub? I'm like... I have to worry about, kind of, being a mess. [00:19:07]
Um, so I don't know why I thought... That is like a constant thought that I have a lot. I think because it's been something that I've been so looking forward to, kind of my whole life, it's what I've wanted. And now it's very real, and it's, you know, something that is a possibility very soon. And I think that that probably really scares me. (pause)
Yeah. I think any time that you just think about something too much, it's not good. [00:20:02]
Oopsies (ph). (pause) Yeah, I don't know. I don't know why, um, it's something, it's like the thing I want the most and the thing I'm most scared of. And I guess that that makes sense, because if, um.... You know, it's the thing I'm most afraid of messing up. I don't even have kids yet, and I'm this afraid. So that really upsets me I guess. (crying) But apparently. I don't know why I'm getting so upset about it now. (short pause) Anyway...
THERAPIST: It sounds like one of the things you're worried about is properly taking care of them.
CLIENT: Yeah. And just, I — well that's what I'm worried about. Well I'm worried about a lot of things, but mostly what I'm worried about is my mental state. Like I'm worried about not being... I don't know why I have the... You know it's like, you hear about those moms in the news that just like, lose it. Like; oh my god, what if I'm one of those psychos? What if I just, you know, with all the hormones and the... kind of I think, a history of depression, what if I just sink into some dark hole? I just can't get a grip? So, um, I guess it all goes back to my, my fear of just loss of control, for myself especially. Yeah. (crying)
Um, I just want to, just really want to do a good job. [00:22:52] (long pause)
So... I don't know why I care this much, well I'm getting this upset is probably...
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you're really worried about yourself. [00:23:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. Um, I guess so. It's, it's just strange because I've been feeling a lot better, but I still feel like it could just, schwoop (ph), and the rug could come out from beneath me. I just don't think that feeling is ever really going to go away. I think I'm always kind of going to be afraid of that. [00:24:06]
I just think that, and probably I've always felt this way, that, I've always felt like; you're just the person who is going to probably have to deal with some depression issues. And I've just always kind of thought that about myself, and; you're just a person who's gonna to have to try harder and really try to keep yourself in check in that way. And so I think when I, I already think of myself that way, that it makes it, makes all those other things possible. Like, well if you're a person who, you know, you're a person who just tends a little bit more towards depressed, then you're a person who probably just tends a little bit more towards any sort of insta... mental instability. And then so I, you know, it's like, well? So then it just goes from there.
THERAPIST: How long have you felt this way, like worried about your emotional wellbeing? [00:25:29]
CLIENT: Um, well this worried about it, just the last couple of years. But I've always felt, I mean as long as I can remember, I just felt sad. (sniffles). And I just knew that I was just sadder than most people.
But just worried about it in the sense that like, where I've been just chewing my head into spinny (ph), just the last two years probably, the last two or three. That is when I've really had bad anxiety that makes me, that makes me feel like this isn't okay. This isn't what I should... I should, I just, this isn't something that I'm comfortable just sucking up and dealing with. This is something that I feel like I really need to try and take care of. And the depression, the sadness, just, for me that is something that I just kind of think like; uh, oh well. But the anxiety is something that I just don't really like as a constant. And I'd like to really kind of handle it. But I think I've always been at least conscious of it, but more recently, worried about it. [00:27:00]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like the anxiety is just sort of always there, or do you feel like it really heightens at certain moments or times?
CLIENT: Oh no, it definitely heightens at certain moments and times. For I think about a year it was always there, almost always. Over the last probably month or so, maybe two months, I've — it comes and goes.
And you know, I can feel it coming and I like learned a breathing technique. (chuckles) So you just kind of try to like take some deep breaths and just — and I usually try to think about like why I'm, why, in the situation that I'm in would make me anxious. But sometimes I can't figure it out and sometimes I don't know. That kind of makes me even more anxious usually. [00:28:02]
But I'd say, I went through a phase where I was having an anxiety attack at some point every day. And um, that doesn't happen nearly as often anymore. And maybe, I don't even know, actually, the last time I was felt like I was having full on panic attack. But um, and after, you know, like at Jed's house, at the party, I definitely got a wave of anxiety and just took myself out of the room for a few minutes. And when I came back I was fine. And I can just kind of manage it, at least, in those situations.
And I know, like you know the day before I was at the bus stop, or going to the bus to take the bus to Boston. And it was so... I just got this wave of anxiety over me. I don't know if it was the... I didn't know what it was. I didn't know if it was the crowd, or I don't know if it was the feeling of having to — if I was nervous about going to the party, if I was nervous about, what I was nervous about. Travel sometimes just makes me a little nervous. And I just got this wave of it. [00:29:10]
And I, usually if I just remove myself from whatever situation I'm in for a minute or two and then come back, now I know that is something that kind of helps me.
And there were situations like, I you know I have a ... I have, I don't like the feeling of being trapped, and the feeling of... So like in that situation I was at the bus by myself, and then getting the feeling of like; I have to stand in this line, and even if I want to get out of the situation, I can't. I just asked the guy behind me to watch my bag. You know, it's like there is always a solution obviously. (sighs) But like you know, the feelings of like; I have to be in here doing this for right now, those feelings I really, make me really anxious.
THERAPIST: Well again it is helplessness. You don't have a choice. [00:30:01]
CLIENT: Mm hmm. Yeah. So those I just don't like. And then as soon as I kind of see like; well no I do have a choice, I could just do... you know. And then I'm just fine. But I guess I have to kind of deal with fact at that point, there are going to be times when I just don't have a choice over certain things. And so those are kind of what I just, I really feel like I need to kind of deal with. (pause)
But I do feel like I, I feel like I um, at least my anxiety is getting better, and that is exciting for me and makes me happy.
THERAPIST: Hopeful? [00:30:50]
CLIENT: Yeah. Definitely. You know like, maybe this isn't what I should feel like, but I feel like I have control over these things that I felt really out of control for me. I guess what I see as a problem is that control is my kind of thing that I need. But ... (pause).
I had heard somewhere that when you have like really anxious feelings, to just let them wash over you and kind of give yourself up to them, and just, just kind of let yourself be really anxious. And I have tried that, and I hate it. I just, for me that doesn't work at all. And the only thing it ends up making me feel is more anxious. I just feel like if I'm giving myself up to this terrible feeling... I don't know, I usually try to just distract myself. But...
And that usually helps. Whether that's a good thing or bad thing, I don't know. But yeah. (pause) [00:32:24]
For a little while I was feeling like as my anxiety got better my, I was feeling sadder. Like one thing was getting better, but the other thing was getting worse. And I just, that was frustrating for me for a little bit. And I know that was only for maybe a couple of weeks. I don't really feel like that anymore. But... [00:32:58]
THERAPIST: I think that can happen. I mean I think it makes sense, because the anxiety about this helplessness, feeling out of control, feeling like something horrible is going to happen. And if you let go of that, I mean, in a sense that protects you from feeling other feelings, like sad...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ... about not having that kind of control.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And so those two sometimes go hand in hand. You're feeling less anxious, but maybe you're feeling more sad.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's kind of how I was feeling. Um, and I think I'm still feeling a little bit, obviously. (chuckling) You know. Beacon of happiness. A little bit sad, so... I don't know, I just don't know if I will be a person who — I guess I hope I'm not a person who always has to think about it.
I try to, I guess, protect myself in that way by saying that, "You're a person who just has to deal with this. You're a person who just tends a little bit more towards sad."
But I guess I really hope that eventually I won't be. [00:34:13] (pause) (sighing)
THERAPIST: Well it seems like you have two visions of yourself and the future. One is that the feelings that you have will get better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And one is that, another one is that you're gonna go over the deep end.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, I have a best and worst case scenario. (sniffles) (chuckles) I'm very hopeful that it'll, I try to be hopeful that it'll get better, or that I'll feel better. But I, you know. But the, there is always a part of me that just doesn't trust my own emotions, I guess. And my own ability to pick myself up by the bootstraps and kind of like, turn things around. (crying) [00:35:33]
I guess I kind of think it's like a, I think of it kind of like a weakness. Like I feel weak in that way. I feel like happiness is like a muscle that I just haven't flexed enough. And that if I just can practice a little more it'll be easier? I don't know. [00:36:10]
THERAPIST: That happiness takes willpower?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well or that getting there does, and that right now I'm just committed to be in a, a sad state. And so I think, well sometimes I just think that; well, just be, just be happy. Just be up to this, and be present in this moment. And don't be, you know, just look at it from a brighter side of view.
Like I just, I just think that if I could just turn my way of thinking around, that is all I need to do. And I do think that's part of it. I do think that I just need to, if I can, just wake up and say like, "Wow, it's a gorgeous day." And just be happy instead of being like, you know, just tense. [00:37:15]
Sometimes I think like; what are you so worried about? Just relax. And I don't... I just wish that that came, but I do think that this is something that I — I feel like I contradict myself a lot. I feel like if I could just get a grip on it, I could just, I could control my happiness. Wow, a control freak.
THERAPIST: What made you just say that? [00:37:55]
CLIENT: Because it's all, like I just keep saying the word 'control'. I just hear myself keep saying like; um... I just hear myself keep saying that.
I think I want things to come easily because that's how I think they should. Or I think that that's how happy people feel. But that's not, at least not the case for me. (pause)
But yeah, I try to actively be ha... I try to remind myself to actively smile and see things from a better place.
THERAPIST: Does it work? [00:39:05]
CLIENT: Sometimes. When I can remember to remind myself. When I'm not so overcome by, um, by sadness and anxiety, and I can remember that you know maybe you have no choice in all this. And maybe you're choosing to come from this light, but you could come from this one instead. And so when I can remember that, it works. But sometimes I don't remember. It's like I'd need a little Post-it, on my hand or something. Yeah. (sighs) Ah, alrighty. I did a lot of crying today. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: Is that okay? [00:40:06]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's probably good. Probably meaning that I won't cry later. (pause) (sighs)
THERAPIST: You've used up your quota of tears for the day.
CLIENT: Yeah. For the week maybe. That is the funny thing. I don't really cry just because. Just maybe the, I just don't really do it that way.
THERAPIST: (sneezes)
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: Maybe that's normal. (sighs) Huh, I feel a little better. [00:41:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah? Relieved?
CLIENT: Yup. Yeah. So thanks. Uh...
THERAPIST: It's so much harder when you have to, sort of, deal with all the worries by yourself and keep them inside.
CLIENT: Right. Or just, even just letting of one or two out at a time. You know... (whispering at 00:41:33) Just um, like I'll let one slip. Like I said to my best friend Chrissie yesterday, she was asking about the baby thing, and I said like, "Oh, I've really got to get some, gotta feel better about myself before I can even do that." And even just letting that one little thing out felt like, it was like picking a scab that I regretted picking. Like as soon as I said it, I was like; oh, don't put that out there. And then I just felt like; put it back. [00:42:10]
Even though Chrissie knows, Chrissie is well aware of everything that I kind of deal with, but it was like saying it out loud, just the one little thing, just like, I don't really like that. So yeah, it feels better to just kind of spread it all out. (sighs)
Alright, it's 9:15.
THERAPIST: No, we still have a few minutes. Are you ready to go?
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like I don't have anything left.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah I don't know. I hope Chris is in a good mood. He's really gonna make me grouchy if he's not. [00:43:10]
THERAPIST: Hmm. You suspect he isn't?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think he's probably in a really bad mood.
THERAPIST: About your going to the New Year's party?
CLIENT: Yeah. But he won't say it. He'll just be a grouch, and that'll bother me because then I won't say anything, and I'll just act like everything's fine and you know, trump breakfast. And I'll keep going on, and he'll keep kind of being the sulk. And then eventually I'll say like, "What's the matter?"
And I'll ask and it'll probably... I always feel like — I hate having to defend things that I just... I don't feel like I did anything wrong. I don't like... I'd rather just move past it. But hopefully he won't be in a bad mood. [00:44:17] (pause)
He's (inaudible at 00:44:32)
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: (laughing) He's just like a girl. Like he just sulks, like pouts. Like, "Why are you pouting? What are you pouting about?" Like, "What did I do?" Either just tell me... For me I get really frustrated. I just, I hate that, like; I'm going to be kind of be in a mood, but I'm not going to say why. Oh, I hate it. [00:44:57]
And so I just think like, if you're upset about something, can you please just tell me and we can deal with it, other than me knowing; yeah I think he's upset about this and he's just kinda gonna act like he's kind of grouchy. And we're not going to talk about it, we're going to sit in this funk. Like I hate that. That drives me crazy. [00:45:19]
THERAPIST: He's brooding.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like; oh come on, what are we doing at this point. Like, who are we fooling. So I get kind of tired of it. I guess I probably do it too, but nobody likes it when the other person is doing t.
THERAPIST: We do, we do need to stop. So again, I'm here next Monday, but the following Monday I'm not here on Martin Luther King Day. Would you like... but I'm back the rest of the week. Would you like to try to find another time that week?
CLIENT: Yeah, that'd be great.
THERAPIST: Okay then I'll absolutely do that.
CLIENT: Okay great.
THERAPIST: Take a look at my schedule, okay?
CLIENT: I'd shake your hand, but they're probably really gross.
THERAPIST: That's fine. Okay, take care.
CLIENT: Okay thanks. You too.
THERAPIST: Okay. Goodbye.
CLIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
