*TEXT-PV010082   Monday 3 February 1969               3058
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (5-minute silence) Since I've come in, I, uhm, have had several thoughts in my mind.  And I just was noticing that they're all going, going toward situations that I felt uncomfortable about or, uhm, somehow, for some reason, ill at ease.  And I came in here without having thought ahead of anything that I wanted to talk about so that I really didn't have, I, I'm sure I didn't have anything preplanned on my mind.  And even if something that had pleasant associations came to my mind, I seemed to immediately discard it or I would think about only the unpleasant parts.  Ah, for 1 instance, uhm, we went to a party on Saturday and there were times when I had a very nice time at it and then there were things that happened that made me feel uncomfortable.  And, in thinking about it today, all I could think of were the things that made me feel uncomfortable.  And it seems like I'm always doing that when I think of things.  And the feeling I got from it, when I realized that no matter what I thought of it was something unpleasant, was just, I just felt so depressed for a few minutes, I wondered even if I, how could I even talk about it because it's just so depressing to always think of these things and sort of not be able to say, well, they happened and there's nothing I can do now so forget it.  I, I just never seem to forget them.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you think you've, eh, you have the feeling that you feel less depressed if you don't say them out loud, you mean?
PATIENT:  No, I don't, I don't know, I just (sighs) well, they're depressing things and for some reason I just, I guess, just didn't want to talk about them.  I don't know exactly what it was but I was sort of, in my mind, saying, well, I can't talk about that because it's just too depressing to talk about.  Or, or more, almost if I don't talk about it, then maybe it'll go away, I guess.  (Pause) And connected with this, uhm, is something I was thinking of this weekend.  And, and it refers to something FYC said to me a long time ago, when she, we were talking at one of the few times we really talked about what each of us was thinking at that time in a very personal way.  It was probably one of the 1 or 2 times that FYC ever said anything about what she was thinking personally.  And, uhm, she said to me at one point, "You think too much about yourself."  And at the time I was feeling, well, that's the only way you can do things better or, or learn how to handle things better and I didn't understand what she meant.  And she also talked about how she had, uhm, realized that you had to sort of do things that concerned people beyond yourself.  And I, I can't even remember how she put it but it implied, anyway, uhm, being concerned with something that was beyond you.  And again, everything that I am concerned with, I think even today, practically is so deeply involved with me personally, however much it might look on the surface that it's not, that I couldn't understand what she meant by that.
And this weekend it came to my mind again, probably partly because I think one day last week, maybe it was Friday, I was talking about the fact that I've very rarely been concerned about other people for their sake.  And, I don't know, for some reason it just suddenly, it was much clearer to me because I just realized, I guess self-centered is the only word for it, that I, I've, everything that I think is so self-centered.  Even if it's potentially something that doesn't have to be, then I'm, I — well, I was thinking of an article I read.  And I never said anything to it, to MSCZ right after I read it.  And I haven't said much to other people.  It's the one on the private schools in EKV.  And, uhm, I wasn't that impressed with it, I didn't think it was a very fair article.  And it was, it seemed to me it was, uhm, done for effect, it was written in a way that would appear to be very effective and impressive but it annoyed me.  And my, my thinking on it will be more, well, maybe I'm wrong so I'd better not say anything, than, than, just thinking about the article.  I don't know, I just don't seem to be capable to think about anything without it having some tie to my emotions or what I want.  (Pause)
And it also makes me realize, when I think of things in this way, why I never had hobbies when so many people, in, let's say, in high school had them.  Because I never could get beyond myself enough to have interests in other things.  And that used to really bother me and I couldn't understand why I was different, what was the matter with me that I couldn't have interests the way other people did.  (Pause) And I suppose this kind of thinking that I do is, uhm, it's more precisely just worrying about my position with other people so even if I am alone, entertaining myself, half of my thoughts, or half of the time I'm alone is taken up with thoughts of how I can sort of secure a better position with other people or doing things that I think would.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you feel that that's true here too?
PATIENT:  That I'm thinking of myself in relation to other people?
ANALYST: No.  I mean, I, I, if in some way do you feel you're trying to, well, you put it, better your position with me, you know, whatever it might mean?  I ask because you recall last week one of the things that you were very much aware of was that, eh, when I would say certain things you became very occupied with, what did I mean and what did it imply that I wanted from you.  And so you had to think about it and figure out what I wanted so you could comply.
PATIENT:  Yeah, I was, when, when you asked that, that was the kind of, I would, I would have said that would be the way I was concerned with bettering my position with you.  Because I guess that is a big part of what I'm doing when I'm worrying about my position with other people, how they think of me.  For instance, when I was at the party, I'm sure the things that I'm recalling that have an unpleasant association to me are, uhm, situations that I think people must have expected one thing from me and I didn't fulfill their expectations.  (Pause)
It, well, it takes me around to the thought that I've realized I don't dare be myself or even let myself know what it is.  And I suppose this is why I'm so busy trying to figure out what other people expect or worrying that I didn't fulfill their expectations, that I don't, I don't have any feeling that I could just be something and, however much of it people might not like, they still might accept me for it.  (2-minute silence)
I don't know why my thoughts went to what I began to think about next.  But, uhm, I think I began to think about, uhm, a telephone call I had from a parent today.  And it's a mother who feels reading is, learning to read is the only thing that's important about what we're doing in, in this year at school.  And so her son now has the same attitude and I've felt that he's not yet that ready to do an awful lot of concentrated reading work but he will work a long time at home with his mother.  And both she and he feel that he's ready for much more difficult work than he's getting at school and it's made him unhappy.  And, uhm, I immediately got on the defensive when she called.  And I tried to, realizing I was doing it, control myself and not say things that, uhm, just shouldn't be said.  But I was very dissatisfied after the conversation and wished I had not said anything but had, instead, made a conference appointment for her to come in and talk to me about it and, and just waited on saying anything until she could come in.  But I, I have very mixed feelings about this.
And from that I went to thinking about something my assistant was worried about today.  I guess, I assume, I took it as sort of an implied criticism me, of me when she was worried.  But, uhm, it's something that I don't feel was that serious and she wanted to find a way to solve it and I was treating it rather lightly.  And I was just now thinking of other solutions.  It's on the —
ANALYST: I'm sorry.  I, I missed the, what was the issue?
PATIENT:  Uhm, it's on having the boys get their coats on fast and quiet down because some boys are ready and they're waiting and other boys are sort of socializing, they're not just putting their coats on and going back to their seats and sitting down quietly.  And it's little things like that, when some boys are ready immediately and other boys are, more than anything else, using the time to socialize with their classmates.  And, I don't know, I, I'm sort of relaxed about it because they don't have that much time and as long as they don't keep others waiting too long, depending upon the situation, uhm, it just doesn't worry me that much.  But I think I, I haven't really admitted this to myself but my reaction really is that she criticized me and, and the way I'm running the class so that now my thinking is going to go, well, maybe she's right and maybe I'd better change things.  (Silence)
And I can see what I do too because I find, I find it very hard to have to direct somebody else when I'm so uncertain myself about what I think or when I'm sort of experimenting to find out what I think.  And when she will question things like that and I am uncertain, although I might not show her I'm uncertain, I, I get sort of angry at her, I suppose, because I feel weak and then I sort of blame her for having made me feel that way.  (Silence)
It's sort of, those thoughts, whatever they were, I'm not sure which one, but I suppose this feeling I've had as a result of what my assistant was saying made me feel uncomfortable.  I don't know what else to describe it as.  And, I don't know, it's just, I guess, the feeling I always have when I'm uncertain about something.  (Pause) Or when I have to make a decision and I'm not sure which way to make it or if I've considered all the ways to make it and I'll just go back and forth.  (Pause)
It makes me think of something else that, uhm, well, I do it and I know I do it but I'd never realized it was as bad as it is until MSCZ said something this weekend.  Uhm, and this is part of really making a decision on what I want to eat if we go out.  I often will have sort of made up my mind but not the final decision until I know what he's having or other people are having.  And then if there're 2 things I just can't decide between the only way I can make the decision is to have 1 thing with the promise that I can taste what he has.  And I have this compulsion to be able to taste everything even if I don't really want it.  Or he might ask me, and this is something my mother complained about too when we were younger, if I want something, if he's getting himself something and I want something too to eat.  And I, I'll feel like saying, "  I don't know."  Which is what I used to always answer at home.  And now I try to make myself decide one way or the other but the feeling I have is I don't know and I won't know until he's gotten it or, at home, it was until the meal began.  And then I'd finally make up my mind.
ANALYST: You mean, until you would see what was offered.
PATIENT:  Well, this was at home.  It used to be just a matter of, "Do you want milk to drink with the meal or not?"  And for some reason a simple decision like that I couldn't, I had to say, "I don't know."  And, until the meal started, I wouldn't feel I could decide.  And then I didn't mind going getting it but it annoyed my mother that I couldn't decide ahead of time.  (Silence)
I suppose it's a matter, again, of committing myself.  And no matter what it is, I just find it extremely hard to commit myself.  So often when I buy clothes I buy them mainly with the feeling that if I change my mind I can take them back.  (Silence) It's funny how my thinking does go because it's gone back again to the feeling that I was being criticized by my assistant.  And if I, if I can keep myself thinking about it in a rational way I don't think she was.  And there were lots of things that happened today that were very nice but I will only think of those when I'm wondering why I'm thinking of all these things that make me feel unpleasant. (2-minute silence)
I'm almost doing the same thing with both that telephone call that is bothering me and the conversation I had with my assistant as I did when I was thinking about things you asked last week and then I would wonder what you meant exactly.  And I'd keep sort of replaying what you'd said in my mind, and I'm sort of replaying the telephone conversation or the situation that had caused my assistant to say anything, as if that's going to give me the clue to what should be done (pause) or figuring out what the mother expected so I could better know what I should say, or should have said.  (Pause)
I suppose I have the attitude, if I can figure things out like what I might have said on the telephone then I won't make the same mistakes again, even though I do make the same mistakes again.  Because even though now the telephone conversation has been done with, I somehow have a feeling that things will be better if I can just work it out more clearly in my mind how I feel on it, probably how she feels about it so I can adjust how I feel about it to how she feels.  And, and also this feeling of, I should think of things that I can now say to her the next time I see her or talk to her, to clarify things I did say or slightly change things I said, even though probably, when I next see her I won't say any of these things.  (Pause)
ANALYST: You know, it occurs to me there's a parallel even, uhm, between this, this way you describe your thinking which you've described in, uhm, in many different occasions, uhm, where you search for all the possible things that you can think about, whatever situation it is.  It strikes me that that's very much like your feeling that you have to sample all possible foods, for example, if you and MSCZ go out to eat or something.  And the way you put it in connection with the food was, you felt you didn't want to miss something because if you don't watch out, you'll lose out, you'll miss something, you'll miss out.  And when you feel compelled, as you just described, to rethink and replay the situation, for example, the phone call with the mother, it has that same quality.
PATIENT:  Ah, yeah.  I was thinking that even sometimes when I, my first impression is that things went well, I'll do it in case I missed something that didn't go well.  (Pause) But I don't quite understand what I think I'm going to miss.
ANALYST: Ah!  Yeah, that's the mystery.
PATIENT:  Except, I know, well, I thought when you were saying that, that sometimes with food, even if I like the choice I made, the thought that somebody else is enjoying something else makes me feel, well, I should have had that because they're enjoying that.  And I can't, after that, enjoy what I have as much.  The only way I can enjoy what I have is for somebody to be somewhat disappointed with their choice or if it's a food I, I just don't like anyway and would have no interest in having.  (Pause) I suppose it's a feeling that if somebody else likes it then it might mean I'd like it better than what I have, this feeling that somebody else's opinion is more important than mine.  If somebody else has enjoyed doing something I probably think I react the same way.  (Pause)
And then if somebody doesn't like something, which is what happened today with those 2 cases, and I don't feel that, I don't look upon it the same way, then I guess my thinking is that I'm the one who isn't seeing everything and I would probably feel differently if I did.  Because I know, even when I was talking to the mother, my initial reaction was that her position was not a very good one for her child.  And then my, then I kept feeling more and more that I shouldn't dismiss it immediately because she might be right after all, what if I'm wrong in the way I've judged the situation?  And it's exactly the same with what I'm doing over what my assistant said.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
