TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session 1
COUNSELOR: My name is Sherry (inaudible at 0:00:10.4)
CLIENT: I'm Jane. 
COUNSELOR: I'll just let you start wherever you want to. 
CLIENT: Where ever I want to? What do you want me to talk about? [0:01:01.4]
COUNSELOR: Well why don't you talk about what's bothering you. You see the thing is I'll let you chose what you want to talk about. Talk about whatever you like to kind of think about or like to change or something; anything. 
CLIENT: Well let's see. It's so hard. Well I suppose the way I feel about myself which sounds trite. You see if feel that I suppose I see myself in the eyes of other people; the way they react. I suppose I've always done this. [0:02:20.4] 
COUNSELOR: You would think a lot in terms of how they think about you.
CLIENT: That's true. It's especially true with men. See I don't know, this may sound bizarre to you, but I've never attracted anybody. Not ever. 
COUNSELOR: Never in your whole life. [0:03:00.0]
CLIENT: I don't know why. 
COUNSELOR: You mean its puzzling why? I suppose it's very depressing too.
CLIENT: You think that's depressing?
COUNSELOR: Do you? 
CLIENT: Well it just seems like it. Well I don't know how it makes me feel. I don't know if it makes me feel worthless. I don't know if you know when I first came here I mentioned that I had a deformity; a curvature of the spine. I've always supposed that that was the reason. And then sometimes I think not. I can't decide. All of my life I haven't been able to decide what it is. [0:04:35.5]
COUNSELOR: Whether it's that or whether it's something else. 
CLIENT: Well I suppose since there's all kinds of people there would be different reasons why people are attracted and not attracted to other people. And it just doesn't seem like every one is. [0:05:05.5]
COUNSELOR: Doesn't seem like everybody would not be attracted to you because of your deformity. 
CLIENT: One time during my teens my mother told me that that's what it was. And now she's telling me that there's no reason why I should feel, that that's the sole reason. 
COUNSELOR: Once she told you one thing and now she's telling you another thing.
CLIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: It leaves you not knowing what to believe and having a hard time getting that out of your mind that she said originally too. [0:05:58.1]
CLIENT: I don't know. I feel like I'm not developing some way. There are so many things I think about. I have to sort it out. Like I feel that if I have man friends that are fairly intelligent that I imagine perhaps they see something else about me that isn't right. It's silly to explain. That they feel there's something lacking in me. Now what this could be I don't know. Intelligence or that I lack something as a woman; that I don't have as much to give. [0:07:37.6]
COUNSELOR: What you mean is that when the men are intelligent you say to yourself it can't be just the deformity that they responding to unless their responding to something else in me. 
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: And you feel bad about that but you don't know what it is. 
CLIENT: But during the last few days I've been trying to convince myself that there's nothing wrong with me that I can't help and that another person is not so superior that their opinion of me really matters. That it's my opinion of myself that counts. [0:08:26.3]
COUNSELOR: You've been trying to tell yourself that.
CLIENT: Yes. Sometimes I really believe it. 
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like there's a whole lot of you that finds it very hard to believe that. 
CLIENT: Now you want to know what else is bothering me. [0:09:25.1]
COUNSELOR: Well I'm not sure if I do. I guess I wanted to ask you a question.
CLIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: Well first of all I don't know if you realize that I'm blind. 
CLIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And so that makes me curious. I don't know what kind of deformity you really have. Like how visible is it? [0:10:01.9] 
CLIENT: It's a deformity called scoliosis in which the spine curves and its sort of pushes the rib cage in such a way so that it pushes the ribs out on one side so that you're sort of crippled. 
COUNSELOR: I see. And then does your back look crooked too? [0:11:03.4]
CLIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Is the rest of your body ok; your arms and your legs?
CLIENT: Yes fine. 
COUNSELOR: I guess the other thing I wanted to ask you before you go on is I never know when people come in here and notice that I'm blind if they have some kind of feelings about that. If you feel uncomfortable? 
CLIENT: No. No. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. I suppose that having a deformity yourself you realize sometimes people have a reaction to it. That's just what you've been saying. [0:12:04.6]
CLIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: So I always try to check out with people and say if you do have any kind of feelings about that it's good for you to talk about that. 
CLIENT: No. I don't.
COUNSELOR: Ok.
CLIENT: It would probably be more objective about my looks. You know there've been a few instances where I have men friends and I thought they were interested and I think perhaps I overreacted. I don't know. And then I found out later that they weren't interested and I wondered what did I say wrong or do wrong. Well see when friends tell me the only thing that's wrong with you is that you lack confidence. Well perhaps when I'm talking to these people or in reacting with these people that I don't show enough confidence. And I've heard it said many times that other people can't like you, or men can't like you in the case of women, if you don't like yourself. So I say well maybe if I learn to like myself and project a positive image then this will make some difference. [0:13:48.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So that's what they've told you. Like that's the way out of this. So you've been trying that but that's pretty hard to make that work when you just don't feel that way. Like it really isn't that simple. [0:14:07.6]
CLIENT: I haven't been trying for a long time. Maybe it can work.
COUNSELOR: You mean maybe you could get that kind of image of yourself. 
CLIENT: Right. I was thinking the other day that the reason I have a poor self image is because, oh here goes the mother thing.
COUNSELOR: Why do you say it that way?
CLIENT: Because I think and I understand that you hear it at all time. I didn't feel that my mother accepted me or cared for me. Perhaps I blamed myself. I said, "Well if your own mother doesn't care for you then your no good." So maybe I felt well I've got to find some kind of love to replace my mother's love. So maybe that's why I felt that it was so important to get married or to have some kind of relationship with someone. [0:15:36.3] 
COUNSELOR: To kind of make up for that. 
CLIENT: Yes. Then I've been telling myself that it's not really important that men like you or be attracted to you. I mean you can't assess your worth by anyone else's opinion. And that I should feel good about myself no matter what. [0:16:07.2] 
COUNSELOR: You should be the judge.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Well I suppose the reason that I felt that I needed help was not for someone to tell me what's wrong. I suppose I have to learn how to accept reality. That is if it's true that I am a person who cannot attract anybody perhaps I should learn how to accept this. I don't know how to learn how to accept this. 
COUNSELOR: Maybe that's the way to go to kind of say well yes it's true. [0:17:05.4]
CLIENT: Because you can't change other people you can only change yourself. 
COUNSELOR: So that's maybe the way you want to go but you just don't see really how to do that. I guess one thing you said before; when you said something about oh you've heard all this before. Well I could see about that but I guess what concerns me about that is that I don't want you to be worried about entertaining me or what I think is trite. I feel better if you talk about what would help you most no matter what I think of it. [0:19:04.4]
CLIENT: Oh ok. 
COUNSELOR: Because that would help you much more. 
CLIENT: Let's see. I don't know. I suppose that's what the general problem is. There are specific things that have happened. 
COUNSELOR: Well I guess you're saying is the general kind of thing is like feeling deep down in yourself and having all sorts of ways if I just felt this way maybe this would go away. If I accept it, or if I accepted myself and forgot all about men, all these kinds of things, but it's like you're miles from those things. And not seeing any way to get there and not knowing what to do about the way you do feel. [0:20:19.8]
CLIENT: And every time I'm attracted to somebody and it doesn't work it just gets worse and worse. 
COUNSELOR: Like it didn't work again and that's even more discouraging. 
CLIENT: And it causes me to continue to over react. Like even now.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean over react? 
CLIENT: Well I'll tell you about something recently. You know I teach music. [0:21:14.5]
COUNSELOR: Oh I didn't know.
CLIENT: And there's another man in the music department. And well I didn't know if he was married or not. Well I flirted around him and he asked me for my phone number. I thought he was attracted to me. It was a sort of a physical attraction. It's the first time I had ever felt an attraction for a person that I didn't think was especially smart or anything like that. [0:22:09.5]
COUNSELOR: First time that you mean you felt just really clearly physically attracted to anybody.
CLIENT: Yes. This person is smart but at the time I didn't think so. 
COUNSELOR: You weren't attracted to him on that basis.
CLIENT: Intellectually.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well I talked to a friend of mine whom I think is promiscuous and she told me about a man that came to see her at her apartment. So I gave him my phone number. I don't have any hang up about morals. I don't know. I told a couple of my friends about this. I must admit I'm a little shy talking about it now. [0:23:27.1]
COUNSELOR: I see. You mean it's embarrassing to tell me about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I think it's the same as (inaudible at 0:23:34.7) So he didn't he call me so I thought well maybe he doesn't think that I'm interested. So one day I asked my friend and said maybe I should ask him out for a drink. So I said I have nothing to lose and so I did and he said, "Yes". And he asked me if he could come over to my apartment and I said, "Yes." And then, I don't know, well I just had this affair and then the next day it was as if nothing. [0:24:22.5]
You see I felt like this that I would see someone on this basis without him ever taking me out or having ever called me. I've seen him twice since then yet he's not interested. He's not really friendly toward me except only in a general way, the way he was before. And I feel that he thinks that I'm cheap and I'm so jealous whenever I see him talk to another woman. Now he's married and he has said that he doesn't have affairs with other people. That he doesn't have a mistress or anything. But I'm so convinced that he must be having an affair with some woman at school. [0:25:18.5]
COUNSELOR: And you're very jealous.
CLIENT: And I'm wondering who it is. Oh he's talking to this one; he's talking to that one. And this has been going on for two months and I don't have an appetite. I don't get any rest. 
COUNSELOR: You don't really rest. 
CLIENT: And I don't have the right to be jealous because he's nothing to me. He's made no commitment to me. 
COUNSELOR: Let me get this straight now. What's happened is you saw him once...
CLIENT: Three times. 
COUNSELOR: Three times. But then after that now whenever you see him its like he almost acts as if it never happened. [0:26:06.3]
CLIENT: Yes. That's right.
COUNSELOR: And you feel... 
CLIENT: I feel that he's thinking that oh she's so easy. I feel that he doesn't respect me.
COUNSELOR: She was a push over. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And besides every time I see him with another woman, or another woman that I feel he admires more, it makes me feel that I'm less than this woman.
COUNSELOR: In comparison to her that he's paying a lot of attention to.
CLIENT: Right. And yet I never see anything to indicate that any of these things that I imagine, or these affairs that I imagine, are true. 
COUNSELOR: You can't point to anything but you still suspect it. And just watching him talk to these women. [0:27:06.1]
CLIENT: Yes. And I feel that I've over reacted. You see I feel that maybe in the initial flirtation or the initial attraction, if there was any, perhaps if I had been more sure of myself, or I had more self esteem, that he would have reacted to me differently. He would have thought more of me. But then I know that he's married and so there's no future in it anyway. Well I don't think of it that way. I think what I was grabbing at was oh here's somebody who likes me. I'm sure that's why I got into this. 
COUNSELOR: There's somebody who cares about me, who was attracted to me. 
CLIENT: You see it wasn't true at all. [0:28:00.1]
COUNSELOR: You mean that it wasn't true in the sense that the way he's acting now. Well I mean it isn't that is wasn't totally true but he didn't really care about you. It's almost like you're saying look here I fooled myself again. 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Got taken in again. 
CLIENT: And then what's made me feel worse is at least I told myself that's he dumb. Well maybe. But he's not dumb. He knows a lot about politics and stocks and whatever. Even today someone said he's really intelligent. So I feel if he's an intelligent man then he must certainly see through me. What he sees I don't know. [0:29:13.9]
COUNSELOR: I mean at least it would be comforting if he were dumb. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But him being smart...
CLIENT: And one of the women that I feel that he admires, she's very glamorous in a conservative business like way. Well then there's another woman that was at a faculty party once and he was there. There was another one, not the same one, but another one and he says to me, "This is a lovely sophisticated woman." This particular woman I don't feel inferior to. And once I asked him what was sophistication and he said something about its intelligence and about politics. So I feel well he doesn't respect me because he thinks I'm stupid about these things. So I guess the whole problem isn't what he thinks of me. I guess I'm saying what he thinks must be true because if he's intelligent then his judgments must be right. [0:30:47.3]
COUNSELOR: Must be good judgment. Yeah. Sort of like saying since this really intelligent man thinks so lowly of me that that's really how it is. It's almost like having an affair with him and having it end made you feel even more unattractive. [0:31:29.7] 
CLIENT: Yeah. It's hardly an affair. My mother says it was more like a ticker. 
COUNSELOR: Which even makes you feel worse. There's a quality in there two of like I don't have any kind of qualities that make me even hold back anything. Whenever anything comes my way I just stamp out any affection. [0:32:13.4] 
CLIENT: Yes, for the most part. That doesn't mean I would be attracted to him. But I suppose it's true. It's not true now. 
COUNSELOR: You learned that. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I think this last experience has made me realize how severe my feelings of inferiority are.
COUNSELOR: Oh I see. I see. 
CLIENT: I suppose I didn't know how to react to it. To what I thought attraction because I don't' have any experience. 
COUNSELOR: You're new at it or you haven't had enough times to see what would happen if you did various things. [0:33:02.8]
CLIENT: Yes. If only I could start to feel better now. 
COUNSELOR: But not when you can't get that thing out of your mind. You still feel very inferior. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And jealous.
COUNSELOR: And jealous. 
CLIENT: But it's been better the last few days. 
COUNSELOR: But it's that intense feeling.
CLIENT: You know this is the thing about my appetite. I've been very thin all of my life and this past fall I gained 25 pounds. It was really a struggle because I don't have that much of an appetite. I don't have any now. It's really hard to eat. And I am more attractive with the weight on. And I feel that if I continue to worry like this and I don't eat, I'm going to lose that weight and worry about that too. [0:34:26.0] 
COUNSELOR: Worried about letting yourself do that and then becoming more unattractive. 
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Now when I go to work I'm very nervous because I think I've got it all worked out. But what I'm nervous about on my own. I don't mind going to the spa emotionally today and that's exhausting too. Sometimes I can watch a situation or him or somebody else and some days I'm not really jealous and other days it's bad. I never know how I'm going to react that day and I'm nervous about it because I really don't know if I'm making progress until I can know what's going to happen. [0:35:32.4]
COUNSELOR: You can't predict. Yeah. It makes you very tense wondering as well. You just can't know in the morning until you're actually in the situation. 
CLIENT: Right. Right. I don't know if you know about my tests that I took.
COUNSELOR: I just know that you took them. [0:36:01.1]
CLIENT: Oh they didn't tell you the results?
COUNSELOR: No. No. No. I don't hear the results of them.
CLIENT: Oh. See I thought when I came here you'd know everything.
COUNSELOR: No. No.
CLIENT: Because on one of the tests there was a test of how you react to three people in different scenes. The answers from my mother were so wrong. You know like I...
COUNSELOR: So wrong?
CLIENT: Yeah. I always put down that I was happy and relaxed like my mother and that's not really true because she criticizes me a lot. Sometimes I really angry and fall out with her.
COUNSELOR: Get angry with her.
CLIENT: Well we have differences. I suppose that's the major part of my problem right there. I suppose there are other things. Other things just sort of work themselves out. I've accepted my medical problems because I'm not handicapped in any way. I'm not really shy, not too shy. And I have friends. [0:37:42.7]
COUNSELOR: It's kind of a problem but not too bad.
CLIENT: Only in the sense that it might be depriving me of a normal life. 
COUNSELOR: In that sense...
CLIENT: But only in that sense.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. In that sense I guess you're saying it is painful. [0:38:02.0]
CLIENT: People say that my face should make up for it. You can't see. I mean I'm sorry I didn't mean to say that. I mean...
COUNSELOR: No that's quite alright. You don't need to...
CLIENT: Well I suppose they mean it's not bad.
COUNSELOR: That you're good looking; your face right?
CLIENT: Yeah. People think. I don't know how much that's worth. I used to put a lot of stock in it but not anymore. I certainly don't look very well now because of the state of mind I've been in. I'm not very well rested. And there have been other incidents. I just told you about the most recent one. Well I'll tell you another reason why this happened is I'm not very experienced sexually and I thought this would be a chance. [0:39:27.9]
COUNSELOR: To learn something. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Was it? Was that part of it?
CLIENT: Did I learn something? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Did you learn something?
CLIENT: I don't know. I doubt it.
COUNSELOR: You doubt it. 
CLIENT: Perhaps. 
COUNSELOR: But that's another thing that you wanted to get some more experience at and so this was a chance. 
CLIENT: Right. I really feel like a fool. And there's nothing I can do to erase this impression. [0:40:15.1]
COUNSELOR: You really feel like he thinks you're a fool. 
CLIENT: I really wish that I could've waited to make sure that he was interested.
COUNSELOR: You wish that you hadn't just jumped in.
CLIENT: But then I don't know if I'm sorry because two years ago I dated somebody, I went out with this person but nothing ever happened physically it was the other way around. When I went out with this person I didn't act interested at all. It was just completely different. You know a reverse situation. And I think also with this person I displayed anxiety. [0:41:16.5] 
COUNSELOR: Wait. Is this the most recent person you're talking about?
CLIENT: No this is the other...
COUNSELOR: The other person. 
CLIENT: But I'm sort of glad that it happened because if I hadn't done this I wouldn't have been able to realize look what you did, look how you reacted in this situation. Even if the affair had turned out happy for me, I don't think I would have done as much self examination. 
COUNSELOR: So in a way it helped you in the long run to have it happen.
CLIENT: I think so. I think so.
COUNSELOR: Like it made you think about things you never would've even considered before. [0:42:02.1]
CLIENT: I know rationally, or thinking, or in my intellect that I didn't have confidence but I didn't feel it or I didn't know it actually until then.
COUNSELOR: It didn't sink in. 
CLIENT: It didn't sink in. Right. So I don't know anything else to say right now. 
COUNSELOR: Just feeling kind of bad about all this.
CLIENT: Now I don't if there are other ways in which I react to people that prevent romantic situations from developing or keep friends from becoming lovers. I don't know. I suspect that there are things that are going on but I have no idea. [0:43:10.9]
COUNSELOR: Yes.
CLIENT: Maybe I'm always trying to prove myself or I come on too bookish or something like that. I just don't know. No idea. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That sounds like one of the big things. What you don't have is kind of people having told you even how they react to you. It's like you just don't know so it makes it very hard to know how to act differently. 
CLIENT: Right. Right. That's right. You put everything... And I can't ask men what's wrong with me because if I do that they'll say nothing. [0:44:11.3]
COUNSELOR: They won't be honest with you.
CLIENT: Oh I think I've asked a couple of people and no one has ever told me that there's anything wrong with me. They say well there's nothing wrong with you. 
COUNSELOR: It's almost like your question gets dismissed in a way.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And you don't really believe that's how they really feel but don't know what else to say after that. 
CLIENT: Right. Right. I think so. So what do people do when they run to analysis? I suppose I had to do something. I didn't feel I could go on by myself alone. [0:45:26.1]
COUNSELOR: But is there some kind of way in which you're down on yourself for coming here; to therapy? 
CLIENT: No. No. No.
COUNSELOR: I see. I see.
CLIENT: I feel ok about that. 
COUNSELOR: Well there's something about the fact that you need to come here makes you realize how bad off you feel. [0:46:04.6]
CLIENT: Yes. Let's see. I'm trying to think of something else. I can spend hours mulling over my problems and now I can't think of anything. [0:47:09.4]
COUNSELOR: By yourself you mean. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But I usually go around in circles. 
COUNSELOR: When you're by yourself you mean.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: But now that you're here you mean somehow it's hard to think of enough to say. 
CLIENT: But you know I wish that I were the kind of person that didn't care what other people think. 
COUNSELOR: You wish it didn't matter to you. They can think what they like. 
CLIENT: Yeah I wish that it didn't matter. 
COUNSELOR: But you are the kind of person who's really very sensitive to what other people think and can be very hurt by that. [0:48:00.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. Especially people that I care for. 
COUNSELOR: You mean like with men you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah and sometimes a close girlfriend. Not that much.
COUNSELOR: But some too.
CLIENT: Especially if I respect her intelligence. If I don't respect the person and the person's intelligence it doesn't matter. Well sometimes it does. Sometimes with the social swing crowd I feel that I'm not accepted because I have this image of the person who goes to a symphony concert and is thought of as a square. But those things are minor. Those are not really problems. 
COUNSELOR: Like that hurts less but it sounds like there's something about them being intelligent in judging you that really hurts. That really makes... [0:49:11.0]
CLIENT: People that are intelligent. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It really makes it seem final.
CLIENT: Right. That's true. This is the last judgment. (chuckles) That's right. I don't know if it's possible not to care at all. 
COUNSELOR: One thing I hear you saying a lot it sounds like you do a lot of struggling with yourself like you're sort of caught in a lot of struggles. Like I feel this way but I want to feel another way. [0:50:07.3]
CLIENT: Right. Right.
COUNSELOR: That's very...
CLIENT: Because the way I feel it just makes life so unnecessarily difficult. It hurts that way. I'm tired of being, well it's silly to say I was to be happy all of the time, but I really would like to have peace of mind. I'd like to have an appetite sometimes. 
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure. 
CLIENT: You don't have any idea of how I could stimulate my appetite? I take vitamins and everything and I would just love to be able to enjoy my food like other people. 
COUNSELOR: Well...
CLIENT: It's just a... [0:50:55.8]
END TRANSCRIPT
