Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: In other words like find a new time...
CLIENT: Time.
THERAPIST: ...Tuesday? Okay.
CLIENT: Because Tuesday I'm going to be in meetings all afternoon.
THERAPIST: Got you.
CLIENT: Getting ready for Wednesday which I think everyone has heard already.
THERAPIST: Even I had heard.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. I think Tuesday is not good, so let's see.
CLIENT: Is it possible that I can just find out tomorrow what things are going to be like and let you know? Because I don't - I just want to make sure you know that that Tuesday appointment I can't do.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So you have that free, because I don't know if I need to be at Salem on Wednesday or not.
THERAPIST: Okay, I have some time on Monday.
CLIENT: Okay. It's quite likely I will be able to do that, but let me just verify.
THERAPIST: Sure, no problem.
CLIENT: Do you think we - do you want me to put the (inaudible at 00:01:03)? Okay, great, great.
So between now and sometime in mid-April it's going to be kind of a weird, you know, arrangement with schedules.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: So, kind of do like lunches and other stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And that normal Microsoft stuff. You have a different cycle than most places do. For example back to school for us starts in like May.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: As soon as people start getting graduation money they start buying computers for that, so it's actually - for us it starts in May.
THERAPIST: Got it.
CLIENT: Yep. So, but it also ends earlier that most places do because people who are buying jeans for their kids is a different time period than people buying computers.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So.
THERAPIST: Got you. Any news about the job?
CLIENT: Not yet. I'm in the process of also trying to impress the powers that be that might give me this job, by helping arrange to have - we're having everybody in our entire market - which isn't a market level job - trying to arrange to have a meeting in March that trying to arrange the venue and all that kind of stuff too. [00:02:20]
So hopefully they'll see that I can coordinate things. Even though it's not an official reason but it's - I'm the only person that can call the Yale Club and get them to clear the schedule for 300 people.
I'm not the only person but probably the only person. So, we'll see. I like party planning so it doesn't bother me.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But it has been just - it's been a very stressful and slightly dreary past few weeks, you know.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I just - it's been really, really, hard for me and it is - it is an effort for me to do the things that I need to do. [00:03:05]
Like yesterday when I got home from work I pretty much spent the entire time in bed except for going to the bathroom, feeling like I got home at 4:00 pm. Oh, that was like 5:00 pm now that I think it.
But between that and noon today, sleeping or just resting and that's widely inconvenient. So I just (inaudible at 00:03:37) to handle. So...
[Pause]
I (inaudible at 00:03:57) what I talked about last time. Oh yes, the whole idea of things of things having to have futility in some way; that kind of thing. Yes, sort of who I am.
But I feel like I have enough in forced down time that I have to sort of do it anyways, you know. (Pause)
But, I hate when I get like this because it's like I don't communicate well. I'm usually pretty - I'm not as scatter-brained right now as I have been in the like conversations on the telephone recently. I just don't know. (Pause)
Really I just don't have as good of skills right now to keep going, you know. Work has been slightly frustrating. Nothing bad just that like we've been doing some training things that I have not been able to focus on whatsoever, partially because I already knew the material. [00:05:14]
But I've never been like completely tuned out basically on new material before. And it's not because other people would to say that would be like that because it started at 7:00 in the morning. But I'm usually a morning person.
If I can get me sitting there to do there it's fine.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I don't really know what's going on with that. And sort of some of the people they've gotten ready to try and mentor is not going to work at all. The personalities are so incompatible that - and this is something I have to sit down and talk to my boss about; that it's just not going to happen.
And I tried to make - like this person is so sensitive to criticism that I've been trying to actually just have friendly conversations so that when I come and talk to her about something that this will be easier. The friendly conversations have gotten to be hostile. [00:06:09]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: She's just a super defensive person and so I talk to her about like - we're up at the lunch room or something like that and she said something about how upsetting it was that she wasn't able, because we keep our break room in a different part of the mall that it makes it impossible for her to be able to come and put her things there before the beginning of her shift.
She's just one of those people. And the reason why they asked me to coach her is because she kind of scares our customers. She has a - and we have a lot of people who have a lot of tattoos and piercings but they're the sweetest people in the world and the little old ladies love, you know.
Like and when we had - they just think they're the greatest things in the world and it's all about the attitude you have. And she always is on the defensive. She's always cranky and she always seems slightly disinterested in anybody else but herself.
And so, I mean just trying to have a conversation with her, and I get the same feeling; exactly the same feeling that our customers do that, you know, that my speaking is always just a waste of her time. [00:07:08]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so - and I've been trying really hard just because I know that she has a lot of personal things. It was divulged to me so that I could have something to talk to her about, personal things in her life that are not - like are not of conversational topics.
Normally when I ask people to tell me something about this person right, and it's like oh well, you know, they really like first person shooters and they're really in to, you know, different types of roast beef. That would be something to have a conversation about.
I don't - I'm not all that interested in either that much, but I can start something. The only piece of information I have is that this, this girl, her husband was recently sent home from I want to say, from Afghanistan because he was shot with his own weapon while cleaning it.
That's in no way... [00:08:03]
THERAPIST: A real conversation starter.
CLIENT: Yeah, especially because of the fact of like that is like gross negligence. And any person who's ever been taught to use a weapon whatsoever, and I've actually never done it. I've been to classes and I've been around it a lot, I've never really done it myself but I know enough to know that like you empty everything before you start like taking things apart. And that just means like, you know - so like he's on a medical discharge forever.
They don't - normally they send you if you're shot, they send you home to heal. But because of the fact that this - yeah. So but that's the only thing I know about her and that's apparently something going on at home.
He's not hurt that much; it's a flesh wound or something but it's still - that's the only thing I know about her.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And that she doesn't really like to talk to others and she doesn't make eye contact. And I suspect based upon her positioning and the way her body is and the way she is that she just doesn't - she's not interested in being around other people. [00:09:01]
And so to me it's like I don't, actually when I'm talking about this that much, I really don't give that much of a damn about her.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: What I need to do though is I need to like when I'm talking with her I'm trying to find ways to be able to talk to my boss about the fact that it may be that they need to get somebody else that can connect with her.
But it might be that she, as bright as she is, she's just not meant to be with the public. It may - get her to be the person that checks in like parts. She did a great job like doing people's like computer like downloads and stuff like that but, you know, just having that frank talk of I don't know if this is temper; I don't know if it's this or that, we need to give her another chance with somebody else, but I can't work with her.
You know it's not like I'm trying to sound like I am being resistant, it just - she is unwilling to, to, to even have a friendly basis with me, you know.
I'm not talking about let's go out for drinks, I'm talking about like let's make small talk about something while we're sitting down in the new - in our new room that Microsoft gave us, you know, so we can have entertainment which I think is pretty damn awesome. [00:10:09]
They did it on purpose in a different part of the mall so we wouldn't feel like we were compelled to get pulled in. We have a television and we have a PlayStation. We have Wi-Fi and we have a lounge. I mean it's...
THERAPIST: Like when you are on break they can just go hang out and do this?
CLIENT: Yeah. You know when you go to the bathroom at malls they have like those random doors that go nowhere?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: They're normally storage units. We bought two storage units, knocked down the walls between the two and turned it in to this wonderful place for us to hang out.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Because they really wanted to us have...
THERAPIST: Break space?
CLIENT: Yeah. And they really wanted us to have down time. And they specifically did it. They didn't do it on the other end of the mall but they did it may halfway, you know, having to go through it because they wanted you not to feel like you were being compelled to get pulled back to work.
They wanted you to really disconnect from the Microsoft world which is so high octane.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, like if it was right next door.
CLIENT: You could possibly see what's going on and say, oh my gosh there's still a rush. Maybe I want to go back from lunch early or something, you know. [00:11:07]
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Or for instance you're in the stockroom which we also - is a different part of the mall. You know we have some stuff like that, we would - you'd probably, you know, at least be somehow, you know, still linked in with these senses of urgency of things, you know.
And so, you know, I think it's, it's a pretty damn wonderful thing that they did this for us, you know. They don't need to do that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, you know.
THERAPIST: It's (inaudible at 00:11:36) she just complains about it?
CLIENT: Yes, about being too far away. And this is not like Mall of America which is, you know, half a mile long.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: This is - Salem is not that big.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, I don't know. So is it wrong of me to just to give up like this? I don't feel like being emotionally beaten up like that right now.
I connect - I have to talk to people all the time that I don't like or don't like me and I put on a good face. [00:12:01]
I don't feel like - is it wrong of me to immediately just decide, you know, what I want to have - I mean I'll talk to her about one thing but I don't want her being my responsibility right now. I don't need a project with a girl that obviously is angry about something.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know.
THERAPIST: You have enough impossible things in your life to deal with.
CLIENT: Yeah. I hate doing that.
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: And it's partially my work culture, but I came in there before that. I don't like to (inaudible at [00:12:31] on people.
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: I had the best person in the world that I've been working with for the last two days that I'm the first person she ever gave up on. And it was super inspiring and that's the thing, you know.
She's a model who just started a lingerie company and she's ever had it - it's very intelligent and she's had zero education and she doesn't even know she's intelligent. She asks intelligent questions.
I only if like - she asked me like all kinds of stuff. And I said well instead of asking me how to do this, why don't you start asking questions about how would I figure this out. And she was like oh my god that is awesome. [00:13:10]
And she started writing this down and she was just super - like I could tell she was picking up things super fast and that was just the best thing. And everyone else like totally blew her off as being the woman who thinks that she's going to start this underwear company.
And, you know, how like she doesn't - you know, and everyone sort of rolled their eyes about this model doing this.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I actually think that - I mean we talked about the idea of getting involved with like some small business groups and all this stuff. And I said but don't take what I say, take, you know, - this is - take over from here and run with it. You know, find other mentors; that kind of thing.
And she was so, so happy and that was just wonderful. And that was someone that everybody had given up on. But it's not that they gave up on her because she didn't try, they just gave up on her because of the way she looked.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so at the same time it's very easy for me to say well this is a girl who obviously like is trying to scare people into not being friendly with her. [00:14:06]
Like she wears colorful spike around her neck and, you know, all that kind of crap.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And, you know, same thing, trying to distance themselves but it was different, you know.
And so I really need to find some sort of criteria in terms of picking and choosing how much I want to put in to it before giving up, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's...
THERAPIST: Well why wouldn't it become a waste of time and energy, and talent at some point, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I need to figure out what, you know, almost like a little algorithm of okay, so what is this going to do for me, what is this going to do for them? How much of, you know, how much emotional drag is this? How much time, you know.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And it sounds stupid to say it that way but really, I need to find some way. And it doesn't have to be hard and fast but something to... [00:15:03]
THERAPIST: I know what you said so far is that....
CLIENT: I would think I would want to put more effort in a co-worker than just this random lady who comes in the store once a week.
THERAPIST: What you've told me is that you already feel like things have reached a pitch between you and...
CLIENT: Yeah, I do.
THERAPIST: ...she and that it's unworkable.
CLIENT: But for the next person I mean. I deal with - that's part of what I do is I train people. I'm always - I'm either training people on this computer or what I like to do more is training people how to understand and train.
And so I have - I feel bad when I give up on a trainer, you know. I just don't think she has it. It's - and I have met people who have had tremendous, tremendous abilities of being able to like grasp concepts and communicate them to others who I had more belief in, you know. [00:16:13]
Does that make - I guess that...
((Crosstalk))
THERAPIST: For now it's just you don't - can't see like A, (inaudible at 00:16:25) a look at yourself and B, can't see her dealing well with anybody else.
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel very bad about that though because of the fact that I just - and I don't want to be a person who like is very close-minded about those people's lives and points of view and this and that, you know what I mean; motivations?
THERAPIST: Do you think you could possibly be wrong about this?
CLIENT: No, I honestly don't. I don't - I don't have the training to put the technical terms to what it is, but I'm extremely intuitive. And if I had taken a class on like body language or on other types of, you know, things like that, I mean from what I know as a trainer and what things I have, she is - she might know she's disinterested in doing this, but she doesn't care. [00:17:13]
She may think she does. She has no desire whatsoever. She turns away from her customers. Like she angles her body away while she looks at them, you know what I mean? Like there's all of these tremendous like weird - she doesn't mirror actions. I mean these are things that show that she is disinterested in everybody, you know.
I can't put my energy into somebody who doesn't care. But I guess part of it is just talking about it right now so that I can say it to somebody else without making it sound like she isn't girly like me.
Because when I come in to therapy I'm normally in very comfy clothes. I'm the preppiest, dorkiest, girliest person at the Microsoft Store. So you don't actually ever see me really at Microsoft-ized that much.
But, you know, it's like, you know, it's not like because you aren't bubblegum sweet like me then you aren't my friend and therefore you aren't worthy. I never believe in that kind of stuff, you know.
Very few of my friends are even remotely like me, but that has nothing to do with anything. I mean that's - you have to define ways to connect with people, you know. You have to be yourself.
But I don't want to seem like that I'm giving up if the person isn't like me, you know. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I would imagine anybody you would talk to about it would know that about you.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. But I'm also concerned that by me dismissing it that I may be burning some bridges with her future like if she finds out that I've given up on her.
I don't even know if she has anybody assigned to her, which is probably in general a bad sign, you know. I don't know. [00:19:06]
But it's just - it's just frustrating, you know. It's really frustrating. I deal with enough people that don't like me in my life. I mean I don't see them most of the time, but I deal with enough people who don't like me in my life, you know. I don't need to deal with one more.
THERAPIST: Well I imagine as much as you know (inaudible at 00:19:33), that you feel kind of at fault or kind of responsible for giving up on her.
CLIENT: Not yet. I think that - I mean not yet but I mean I feel like maybe I haven't given it the last chance. But then I feel like that I'm very close to feeling - I'm very close to being - if I walked away from it I wouldn't regret it. Does that make sense? But I think that maybe I'm giving up too soon, I don't know. [00:19:58]
Part of it is also sort of a cover your ass concept of making it seem like at the very least, whether or not I feel this way that I communicate properly to management that - on the way that they understand because they have a very different understanding level of these things that I have tried. [00:20:16]
And sometimes what I feel and what I say are different because I have to tell the story as they understand it which sounds weird I know. But different people have different, you know, abilities to understand this kind of stuff, you know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:20:33) also very effective.
CLIENT: Yeah. So...
THERAPIST: I mean, you know.
CLIENT: It's weird because I have - I think I've told you that I have six bosses. Down by one but they're going to hire two more so it's okay.
And one of them who I only see occasionally for small talk for maybe ten minutes of the day has been such - I mean like literally we have no crossovers whatsoever in our jobs. [00:21:02]
You know, introduce me to the new people as the, you know, as for training and repair, the resident sarcastic sweetheart. And I thought that was the best title I've ever been given, you know.
And I don't know why, but I just - the fact that he just only sees me maybe ten minutes a day and has picked up on this since December was really wonderful to me.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because it meant that he got me.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. That's terrific.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not usually - usually be the smart aleck part is usually picked up on fast. But the fact is, is that I only - you know, the fact is I only taunt or say things like that to people that I care about.
You know if I didn't point - I wouldn't point anything out if I didn't give a damn, you know.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know I won't point out - if I didn't really think that you were, you know, worthwhile, I wouldn't point out your typos in your slides. [00:22:03]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I won't, you know, I won't give you a hard time about something if I really don't think that it's worth the effort.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so knowing that actually it's because I - you know, I'm sometimes cruel because I care; not really cruel but kind of sarcastic because I care, is actually kind of nice, so yeah.
But it just - I talked about getting out of this and I definitely either going to the market level or switching is going to be good because it's just getting so darned big. I mean we're getting to 150 people in our store probably by next week.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah. And when they say our market; when I say 500 people, that doesn't include Framingham or Manchester or like Franklin. It's just like three stores is going to have 500 people.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: It's getting to be so big. And part of that, it's just - part of it's the fact that it's the business, but part of it's also like I can't have that many simultaneous relationships with that many people at once without it becoming too much for me to really handle, you know. [00:23:12]
I - that's part of the reason why I felt so at home at a smaller school is because the fact that I may not have personally known. I at least knew by sight just about everybody of my class. And I definitely knew like, you know - you know, I knew most people enough that accidentally I got voted into - once got voted into a position for school, but I didn't attend.
The Engineering School and the Computer Science School are actually separate computer science at Brown is actually - it has its own school and it's associated with math. And since I am so much into electrics which is part of Computer Science, but I'm a researcher, I attended so many things for electrics that people thought I was a member of the electrics Department, therefore got accidentally written in as a person or candidate for something for the Computer Science school in the research department. [00:24:05]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So it sounds weird. It's hard to explain but because it - I knew enough people in other departments that they thought that that's where I belonged.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I think I told you that I used to take naps and hang out over in Chem lab to sort of like - it's not a big deal for me. But I feel like I can't do that. I have to really focus too much on just the people that are immediately around me that many, you know.
I can barely - I have people that report to me right now that I don't know their names. And I've never been great with names, but that's really embarrassing, you know.
THERAPIST: Yes, that's not at all how you want it to be.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, and that's just getting to be too big for me personally so, we'll see.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I guess. It's just, you know, it is what it is. You've got to (inaudible at 00:24:59).
THERAPIST: I think part of what you're saying is that there's like a lot of it's like too much, which you (inaudible at 00:25:04) to admit and you don't like to admit it and you'd rather not admit it and you think about admitting it. But it also...
CLIENT: Well it's only 12 hours a week in theory is too much in general though because I'm trying to pack in a lot, then I end up spending more time. It's just... [00:25:16]
THERAPIST: Yeah. The bad thing about that is, you know, this percent where you train, (inaudible at 00:25:21), 24 hours.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's too much.
CLIENT: It's a lot.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's a lot, you know. And on top of it I just feel like so much of even the people that I've taken granted is understanding who I am and picking up on things without me having to tell them about my life. You know, it's been sort of a hit or miss.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Even my mom thought I was in a bad mood recently. I'm like no, it's not that I'm in a bad mood, I just don't feel well. And like I swear to you; I promise it's just not that I don't feel well. I'm not mad at you, I'm not mad at anybody, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And like Mike has been picking up on things wrong but, you know, he's lately been so hyper-sensitive it's been sort of the normal; which just makes me sad because he's not normally like that. [00:26:08]
I made him promise - I'm trying to remember what it was, it was like for the rest of the month I need you to believe me that something. And it was like I think I asked that on like Saturday. It was not like a long period of time.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I think it was - if I sound like I am - if I sound strange or stressed out or angry that I'm not, it's just that I'm having too much trouble processing information all around me, that's what it was. You know, that I'm just caught up in back processing.
And she's like well I tried to remember that but I don't know if I will. I'm like okay, at least you admit that, you know...
THERAPIST: She tried to ask.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it's just a lot to have to do. And so it's just I had been trying really hard to try and talk to some of my friends who are far away right now, and I think it's becoming, I don't know - it's hard because then I have to explain why I'm been avoiding them. [00:27:10]
And my simple explanation is I think it sounds - it's been - it's very hard to just say can you just like not talk about it just assume that it's not you, it's me. Because it's like yep, I was too busy having a big pity party for myself and I dropped the ball and I'm sorry, so can we move on from here; why I haven't returned calls in like a year. It's hard though.
Yeah, but I, I just, you know, miss certain people.
THERAPIST: Well, if you want to have a pity party (inaudible at 00:27:51) to it.
CLIENT: Yea, but it's easier to say that than...
THERAPIST: Oh yeah fine, it's just about what you say.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean honestly it's easier to say that than...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...say I've been too depressed because being depressed is like... [00:28:00]
THERAPIST: No, no, no I totally get it. I was thinking you were meaning it (inaudible at 00:28:05).
CLIENT: No, I don't believe it myself.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: It's just easier to say, you know, I was too busy.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Like I was too busy, obsessed with like my own obviousness to like, you know, the most ridiculous things possible like to - because I feel like I have to belittle it to make it easier because I don't want it to be like okay, like I've been really depressed and now I'm here to use you for your conversation.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So it doesn't really work but, I don't know. But, we'll see. You know sometimes it's more of a burden because it's like it's hard for me to keep up a conversation.
Like my one friend Dave, we've been talking occasionally on Saturday mornings; he lives in Australia. And there's only so many like things I can ask him about like what is different over there than here without it sounding like I'm really scraping the bottom of the barrel for questions, you know. [00:29:00]
So, we'll see. I just wanted to find out what's going on with his life and basically him. He's just working all the time. Disturbingly enough he lives in Australia but he's been in New Zealand more than he's been in Australia lately. He works for a big bank and they're buying out banking in Australia.
THERAPIST: I see. So he's traveling a lot?
CLIENT: Yeah, so but it's just I feel like I need to just sort of thrust myself into conversations with people. These are the people that matter and therefore I don't really want to fuck it up that much with like random people that don't matter so that I can sort of practice. Does that make sense at all?
Like if I screw this up so badly I will never see you again, therefore this is a very low like risk situation to try and make small talk with?
THERAPIST: What are you worried about screwing up so badly?
CLIENT: Screwing up, just feeling pitiful. Like I'm just not very good at holding up my end of the conversation lately, you know. [00:30:02]
Pretty much the whole thing is oh, how are you doing? Well I'm doing okay. How's work? Well, you know, work has been kind of crazy. That's pretty much about it.
Because if I go into the real things they don't really want to talk about them, you know, not all that interesting. So I just feel like my life is too boring to really... (Pause)
I guess it's kind of just sort of a double-edged sword on that. So I imagine at least some of the people in my life are feeling similarly - similar way which is, you know...
THERAPIST: You mean similarly down are...
CLIENT: Similarly down or just like wow, my life is really like uninteresting, you know. (inaudible at 00:31:00) somebody to ask to say that, you know. I don't know. (Pause)
One of the things that really frustrates me now...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Sorry. You were about to say something?
THERAPIST: Go ahead, you talk first.
CLIENT: ...is that when I explain to people in my life that, you know - that, you know that, you know, I feel stranded or lonely or whatever, a lot of people in my life are like well what about Mike?
And it's like, you know, even the world's best balance cannot be the end all be all of everything and it just, it just frustrates me a lot. It's almost like they expected that, you know, well how could you be lonely in a house with another person? [00:32:00]
THERAPIST: Is it possible there is a part of you and not the part that you let out which I imagine you're sort of really keeping your arms on, that like is feeling just down and cranky?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: That's like sick of this shit, that's like sick of having to deal with people, that's sick of having so much overwhelming stuff to deal with, sick of being in pain. And that's just pretty fucking (inaudible at 00:32:37) of the whole thing.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Just checking.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm so sick of people that I order things from Amazon so that I don't have to have the human interaction of having to deal with people sometimes.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's frustrating but it's complicated.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean probably because they just want to (inaudible at 00:32:55) fuck the hell off.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so yeah, a lot.
THERAPIST: And probably partly because people generally don't have much tolerance for how crappy you're feeling (inaudible at 00:33:18) two good reasons why you shouldn't be feeling that way or something else.
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty much.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or avoid me. I mean I had - the number one reason why I actually have like - I hesitate to talk about any of my health problems with any of my friends at all is because when I first became sick, for the first five years people, you know, if they knew anything about it they avoided me because of the fact that it's just something that's hard for them to...
I mean maybe it makes them shitty people; I don't know. I don't really think so though because I think it's just something they can't understand and it makes them feel uncomfortable therefore.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or at the very least they think maybe they're bothering me.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don't know, but it just it feels terrible to feel abandoned. [00:34:01]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: It's a downer I guess for a lot of them because they don't want to go do stuff, you know, with someone who's like kind of, you know, (inaudible at 00:34:09) for that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: But not nearly as bad as for you to feel like...
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: ...at some level you're losing all these friends over health problems which were plenty bad to begin with.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It all sounds among other things, kind of infuriating.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause)
But at the same time it's very reinforcing that it's true that way though to hear somebody that I knew, you know - it's more of an acquaintance told me that she can't - her kidney transplant is a secret because she wanted to actually see people, you know. [00:35:02]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It wasn't like a super secret; she just neglected to tell anybody.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know. And so I mean that's very reinforcing to have somebody that, you know, we were freshmen together, we knew each other well. And she says, "Don't tell anybody because the last thing they can do is handle their own mortality."
It was like it's not their own mortality, you know. Like no, no, no but we're the same age, you know.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So, but I'm just sick of being the person with the problems. I just want to stop them, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I want to be able to know what I can do to make this stop. And I don't care how hard or how complicated it is, I just want to take action to make it happen, you know.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, yeah.
CLIENT: Quite frankly I'm sick of having to have to think through things too much. I really want to just be told what to do for just a short period of time in my life. [00:36:06]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: And not have to at all be left to you to figure out...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...and manage.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Pause)
CLIENT: It's a lot to have to take care of.
THERAPIST: I think so; yeah. (Pause)
CLIENT: So I guess you're telling me what to do? (Laughing)
THERAPIST: About what? (Laughing)
CLIENT: I don't know. I just need - honestly, I need directions. And maybe this is so silly. Right now I need like a, this is what you - I'm not saying you need to do this. [00:37:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I just like a - this is what happens at ten o'clock, this is what happens at eleven o'clock kind of thing, a no-brainer.
And that sounds stupid but right now I just need that so I can sort of process all that's going on, you know. I don't want to have to juggle things and figure out what has to be done in what time period which it's terrible to say that I don't want to have to be an adult and have to be responsible for things for myself right now.
But you know what...
((Crosstalk))
...I've been like this since I was ten.
THERAPIST: You've been like this since you were ten. And for you, feeling responsible usually means you're responsible for everything, some of which you have control over and some of which you don't.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean for one thing you don't have control over how cranky you feel. You have some control over what you do about it, but not how much you feel it or how overwhelmed I think... [00:38:03]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...you feel.
CLIENT: You don't know how I get past that or, you know, in my own head I'm convinced that I have some - it has to be some way to have control over that.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: I know, but the sort of - I've gotten this far in my life with things that are - and adversities by thinking outside the box and finding solutions for things that are...
THERAPIST: I know, you're really good at it, because this isn't amenable to that sort of thing. [00:39:01]
CLIENT: I know, but you have to understand that that's just - that just - that's just - and I've gotten reinforced from that, you know.
You know I'm wearing contact lenses that are actually right now, that I don't wear contact lenses. Not that - I'm wearing them not because of vanity or because I'm actually part of a clinical trials so I can get money to pay for my electric bill right now. You know, that kind of like thinking out of the box kind of thing, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's stupid but that's just sort of who I am because I'm always one of those people that's always trying to find some way to change that, you know.
I have a whole playlist of propaganda music for when I have to basically, you know, there's something I have to do and I have to build up my mood and my attention span and my everything just to get it done.
I have a whole set of music specifically geared toward that so that I can, you know, perpetuate that. And I know that it's not permanent. I know it's something that as soon as I'm done I'm going to be completely exhausted and have to get past it. [00:40:00]
But yes, the equivalent of pulling an all-nighter for something harder than that usually that's something that's not just like I just need a study thing.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know, I have all of these different hacks for my life and I just feel like - I feel like I haven't figured out the hack for how to stop feeling so sorry for myself; feeling so sad, you know.
I've researched it and almost every single thing I've read is complete and total bullshit. Like there are articles like in real simple magazines about like if you're feeling very blue, go out and spend time with nature so you can see that, you know, like things are growing and blooming (inaudible at 00:40:50) life is stagnant.
I mean I'm talking it makes - they sell magazines with this kind of crap. I've done like research in terms of other things too and like it's - I just, I feel like I don't - and I don't necessarily even know it's going to pass. That's the worse. [00:41:05]
If I knew that this is like - maybe even if I don't have an ending date but I know it's going to pass, that would be great, but I don't know. So it's very hard to really feel positive about the future when there's so much uncertainty and the uncertainty is even negative, you know.
THERAPIST: Yep. Yeah, I mean there may be little things you can do here or there to pick up your mood up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or, you know, things that would make you feel a little better or a little worse. Like of course, you know, like trying to (inaudible at 00:41:48) or something like that.
But in the bigger picture you're doing the things you can, you know, like...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You're getting treatment; you're trying to take care of yourself.
CLIENT: I just - I wish I had some sort of (inaudible at 00:42:20) sometime soon, you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: There's something to be said for trying for the sake of trying, but knowing that the results aren't necessarily going to be positive. But you have to kind of go in to that knowing that that's the way it's going to be.
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's something to be said about beating your head against the wall too.
CLIENT: Yeah, but what am I going to do if I'm not going to beat my head against the wall or throw myself into the river. At this point there's nothing that I can do. That's not a reality by the way; I just wanted to make you sure. I was trying to think of the most absurd thing to say. [00:43:05]
THERAPIST: Sure, sure, sure. (Pause)
You know, what you're doing, you know, with your life, the best you can, try to do things to help, you know, I mean.
CLIENT: You know all the other things I'm complaining about and talking about are just peripheral to the fact that I just feel lonely and empty and I don't know if it will ever stop.
THERAPIST: I expect it will get better. I couldn't tell you when, but...
CLIENT: I'm not looking for precision. [00:44:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think (inaudible at 00:44:13) important to like, you know, demeaning and lonely and empty.
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:44:28)
THERAPIST: Yeah. We stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:44:43) more tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay, that's good.
END TRANSCRIPT
