TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: I hate having to do that.


COUNSELOR: That is all right.


PATIENT: I am sorry I was not here for the last couple of weeks; I have not been feeling too well. I have been [inaudible 0:25] with my dad. I haven't really gone to the doctor, but it's like things started bothering me and I started having pains and all that.


But things have been going pretty good. I was really depressed a couple weeks ago. Charlie and I were supposed to go away for the weekend and he decided at the last minute not to go, and I went anyway. 


I [inaudible 1:00] with my parents and he and I were supposed and go I went with [inaudible 1:03] and it was really kind of a catastrophe. It was like I realized all of a sudden that it just...one thing that is simple to just go back into the [inaudible 1:20] and it was like just a nerve-shattering experience. I just could not cope with it. 


I felt really lost. I never realized how much I depended on him for just a feeling of security. 


COUNSELOR: Is that what was hard about going back to your parents?


PATIENT: I think so because I could no longer...well, I don't think I really ever did feel that secure with him. Perhaps that was one reason why I was always searching for other people to become involved with because I needed that. I realized that [inaudible 2:14] at any time. Things like I had talked to you about my father that really bugged me. It wasn't just that, but it was just the total thing, just being with him for 24 hours or 36 hours.


It was just something that I could never go back to.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 2:43] I am having trouble getting a sense of [inaudible 2:48]


PATIENT: Well, it was sort of like I was disappointed that he was not going to go. But then I thought, 'well, I'll go anyway because I need to get away, and maybe this will be a nice time for me to really spend some time with my folks.' 


I had been having this really strong guilt feeling anyway over different things that had occurred in the previous week. 


So I thought that I would really give it a try and I was so bound and determined to really make a success of it, maybe that is why it all fell through. 


But it was just like everything they did just bugged me. 


COUNSELOR: Kind of...you said it was irritating?


PATIENT: Irritating and just very like...I just had...like wanted to get away from them and I couldn't because I was there trapped with them. And it was like right in the middle of dinner I just got up and said, 'I'm just going to go back to the room,' I mean, it was those kind of reactions to things, I really just couldn't cope with, that I had to just get away from them. 


COUNSELOR: So it was kind of like the feeling was a little like they were just after you or they were getting to you or something like that?


PATIENT: Because it's sort of like well, number one, when they get me alone, they really try to like make me their little girl again. And then they will say different things about Charlie that were really irritating to me. And it is not that I think consciously they are trying to instigate trouble, but they do because they set my mind to work about these things that really bug me. The first thing is like they are really hanging on to you kind of thing and cling to you, make you part of them again, suck you in through their life. And the second thing is that they kind of split you in two so that you are part of that life again. 


Another thing that I found that was so interesting about it was that the weekend before, I had gone away for the day with this male friend of ours [inaudible 5:26] And I really had a good time. Now that, I enjoyed it because it was like I was away from the pressures of being with Charlie and the nervousness and everything that I had been having. And I really had a very good time. I was very relaxed and just myself. And maybe I was expecting the same reaction the following weekend, which I didn't get. 


I wasn't away from the house for an hour, and I already desperately missed him. And I just got more and more [inaudible 6:13] about the prospect of not being with him. 


A funny thing happened as far as I was concerned because I was usually in pretty good control of my emotions. We had gone down to a baseball tournament, and here I am sitting like in thousands and thousands of people, and I know a lot of people that I am sitting around, and I just started crying. I could not control myself it was really terrible. 


And I just felt like I was so lost. And I was trying to figure out why I would have this really strange feeling overcome me. And I could not really figure if it was because I really and truly missed him that much, or if it was simply because I did not have someone that was in my own particular age group or like a really close friend like the weekend before. [inaudible 7:19] apparently bother me at all to be away.


COUNSELOR: So it is like kind of being in [inaudible 7:25] environment with no one to protect you.


PATIENT: So you know, [inaudible 7:33] because when I got home I thought I would have this really big surging power to...urge to just like say, 'I really missed you,' and all this, but I did not.


It is really strange because I had been so [inaudible 7:50] the fact that he would even come. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you needed someone to protect you period. It sounds like it really did not make much difference that it was Charlie, but you needed somebody.


PATIENT: Yes. And obviously, my parents were not a substitute. I mean, I just could not relate to them at all in any way. And I knew that I had been very cold the whole weekend. I was very standoffish and cold towards them. And I thought that I would feel really guilty like when the whole thing was all over with, that I would go back and think about it - that I would say, 'well, you know, that was really bad, you should not have done that,' but I really did not feel that way at all.


And I know they noticed it because they had me made several comments. And I just kept passing it off that I was tired or something, but I really just did not have the least guilt feelings at all about treating them that way. And I think that the reason in a way that I did not is because I had come to resent that feeling so much that I really fight it because they are constantly backing me in a corner to make me feel guilty. 


I think that was the one thing perhaps that caused me to feel the way that I do about Charlie, was because he had like called my bluff about going without him, and I went anyway. And I did not know if it was because I felt so guilty or because I [inaudible 9:45] missed him.


COUNSELOR: Guilty for going without him [inaudible 9:52]?


PATIENT: For leaving, right, because he was very, very upset about it. He just really and truly acted as though I had totally deserted him.


COUNSELOR: And you were saying that you did not want to leave him [inaudible 10:07] feel that way or something but you had to do it because you had to show him that you could do something by yourself.


PATIENT: The thing was that it was like agreed on all along that he was going to go. And then when it came down to it, he decided not to go, that was the glitch he put into everybody's plans. Which, I did not feel it was exactly fair to me. And I suppose I could have stayed home, but it just really bugged me that he would not be willing to meet halfway with me. 


COUNSELOR: So kind of to get back at him or...


PATIENT: Yes, I guess in a way. Especially since he started reacting to it almost immediately, with the pouting and solemn kind of mood. And more so, really when I came home it really had gotten worse and he was just unbearable. The first two hours I was home he was really feeling sorry for himself. 


And we had a really great session about it though because when I came home, it was about eleven-thirty at night, and he had acted like he had not eaten all day, really playing the [inaudible 11:33] role. He went out, and when he came back, I was waiting for him and I said, 'I think we should talk.'


And I really laid into him about the fact that I really did think that he wanted me to be like a mother image to him rather than a wife. And that he was the man and if I were to leave or go away for a day, he should be capable of taking care of himself.


He sort of like tried to pass it off like he always did in the past, like he does not want to talk about it. And I just kept pushing because I just had to get these things out of me because I really do feel that this has like been a big thing between the two of us. 


Like, he has been really bugging me about not getting up in the morning and fixing breakfast. And it does not mean that much to me one way or the other. I mean, I do not mind getting up, but it's sort of like the way that he approaches it. And it's like I know that it's bugging him and I'm intentionally not getting up to do it. 


And I tried to explain to him why I am being this rebellious because it's sort of like he expects me to do it. [inaudible 13:08] I am supposed to be there to wait on him and I do not like that. I do things because I want to do it, not because I am expected to do it. 


And in the end, he finally started to agree with me that it was definitely a feeling as though I had walked out on him. Because his mother would leave for the day and sometimes she would come home and sometimes she would not. And so this was the feeling that he had, that I was leaving and I was not going to come back. Or when I did, I would have done terrible things that would hurt him if he ever found out. [inaudible 14:02]


COUNSELOR: So he really felt that it was a thing that went back?


PATIENT: I feel that he did because his whole reaction to the thing was how I would expect a little boy to act if his mother were to desert him for a day or something. And I don't know how to cope with that because I do not feel that this is [inaudible 14:30] that I got married. And I suppose that I subconsciously I still [inaudible 14:42] therapy and I feel that these are the things that he could have really worked out if he had wanted to. 


And instead of him doing it with someone who is not directly connected with him, he is forcing me to play the role of the therapist, which I resent. 


COUNSELOR: You should. You do not want to play therapist with someone that you are living with.


PATIENT: I mean, I realize that there are things that are really bothering him and that he just cannot let loose, they are like all [inaudible 15:17] up inside of him. And I know that he needs like a push or a shove in the right direction to get him [inaudible 15:33]


COUNSELOR: So you were saying it is really hard for you to do when you have got all your stuff going [inaudible 15:39] and you cannot put yourself aside and help him because [inaudible 15:43]


PATIENT: I would love to be able to just sit down and talk to him the way that I talk to you, but it's impossible because he just turns me off. And the only time that we ever seem to get anything really discussed is if it's a problem that does not concern us directly or if it is something that I see about him and then he lets me [inaudible 16:09] about it. But then that is [inaudible 16:11] 


And our mutual problems aren't getting solved at all. For instance, Sunday morning, I just really had this big urge to make [inaudible 16:31] so I put [inaudible 16:33] and he said, 'oh, I don't know.' 


We have company coming at 12 o'clock and this was like eleven in the morning and I said, 'well, I'm the one that should be company, not you.' So I said, 'no, really, come one, let's go,' and I really had to push him into it.


And afterwards I said to him, 'well, did you just do it because I wanted you to, or did you really want to do?' because it was like the first time in a month. Which I would think that anyone else would have been chasing me around the bedroom. 


And he just said, 'oh, I wanted to do it,' just real flippant like. And I knew really that he did not. He just was not in the mood for it. And I cannot figure that out, it just does not make sense to me.


COUNSELOR: That he is not chasing you around the bedroom?


PATIENT: That something is not happening. And especially like, I have realized that I am maybe part of the reason that he finds sex so not enjoyable.  But I think there is more to it and I think that it's like a lot of it...I'm becoming really more and more [inaudible 17:50] to be with him. 


And I just cannot figure out what it is. I don't know if it is that...I don't know, I just cannot...I'm at a dead end.


COUNSELOR: What is your fantasy [inaudible 18:07]


PATIENT: Well, homosexuality, but I mean, that, we have talked about. I mean, I thought, 'well, maybe that was it,' but he says, 'no.' But I mean, that does not mean that it is not it, but he says it is not. 


COUNSELOR: But it seems to me [inaudible 18:29] there must be something really wrong. 


PATIENT: I would think so. I mean, I would think there has to be a substitution somewhere. If it is not another woman, then it is this desire to have desire with another person being a man or a woman, I don't know. 


Sometimes I feel that he really wishes that he would have the courage to have an affair. I really have that feeling, but I think he is too afraid of being rejected. Because although he always had talked about all these experiences and everything, I think that just basing it on the relationship that we have, he was never one to rush into a situation. And I think it was because he had to know he was on secure ground before he would make a move because I do not think that he could have coped with being told, 'no.'


And maybe this is why, because I just, I don't know, unless it has just gotten to the point where, I mean, he is just so [inaudible 20:02] or completely finding no satisfaction in having sex with me that to him, it is not even worth the bother or the time. I cannot [inaudible 20:14] what other substitute he would be using other than masturbation because I have never had any indication that there is another woman. And I do not think that there is another man, but I just do not know. 


And his reaction Sunday was so weird to me because it really takes a lot for me to say that because I really do not enjoy sex that much anyway. And I mean, I was saying it even then with something in the back of my mind because somebody had told me that if you are sexually frustrated you will get backaches, you know, [inaudible 21:02] really goofy. 


So I thought, 'well, maybe that is the problem.' And I said it even then, I said, '[inaudible 21:12] maybe my backache will go away.' But even so, I don't know, it just...like I had to really talk him into it. And then afterwards, I had to wonder and I even got to the point where I asked him whether he enjoyed it or not. 


And it was funny too because it was the same old routine, just 1, 2, 3, then it was all over. And I don't know. Maybe I should do something to encourage him more. I don't know.


COUNSELOR: You mean something like more foreplay?


PATIENT: Yes. I mean it's like he does not really encourage anything. Not that I do not think he would enjoy it, but I don't know, it's like he has passed it off like it does not mean anything to him anymore. And so therefore he just does not show [inaudible 22:17] participating in anything other than...


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 22:26]


PATIENT: Well, it's really weird because I thought there for a while like we were really coming out of it. And I mean it is funny because we have gotten closer. But I don't know, like, if this is [inaudible 22:41] the rest of my married life is going to be, I don't know. It does not seem to bother me in as much like I am searching for what I was searching for a month ago. I do not seem to be reaching out for any man that goes by. 


COUNSELOR: But it sounds like now you are wondering now why he is not.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: Or why on Earth should he be staying with you, what is he getting out of it?


PATIENT: I think I know what he is getting out of it.


COUNSELOR: Yes. That is what you said before about him being afraid of...


PATIENT: I think like in our own separate ways, we both need each other desperately. And we find enough common ground [inaudible 23:43] pulling us together. 


The only thing I guess that bother's me now outside of the fact about sex, is really how long a marriage like this can survive.


COUNSELOR: While you are saying that, what I have heard you saying before is that both of you are really terrified of leaving because that would mean you would have to go out on your own. And that is part of what keeps you so desperately needing each other. 


PATIENT: See, it is like...well, it's so funny because when you get married and you have different things happen along the marriage way, that you think, 'boy, you are pretty lucky,' because you look around at other marriages that seem really screwed up. 


And the one thing that I always loved dearly about being married to Charlie was the fact that he rarely ever left me. He was never one to go and hang out with any group of fellas.  He never was gung ho about going to bars. He never looked for an outside outlet to get away from me. 


Even when he would go out on a rare occasion, eventually I got over hanging on, but I do not think he ever really had that great of a time. I do not think he would want to go back to that kind of existence. And I find the same is true with me. I do not really look for look for places to go without him. What happened the last two weekends was just something that happened, it was not something that I looked for.


I really do have a really secure feeling when I am with him. I think what it is, is that, like when I think about it now and everything, I think I had it so great. But for him to get that upset for me to just go away for the day, it is really an indication to me to how much he really needs me, or thinks he does. 


Because I could just picture another man saying, 'Fine, go on. I'll have a ball,' and make all kinds of really great plans [inaudible 26:33] day and night by himself. 


COUNSELOR: But he so much does not do that and you wonder.


PATIENT: And even the following weekend, if he was not so depressed about the fact that I was going, but like when we pulled up in the driveway [inaudible 26:52] and I thought, 'gee, he must have planned on being here about the time,' because here I found out that he had gone to my folks house to pick up the car, [inaudible 27:04] stayed there overnight all by himself. And did not [inaudible 27:11] like at eleven-thirty. 


And I said, 'I thought you were going to go out and have dinner with [inaudible 27:18] and have a nice evening [inaudible 27:22].'


'Oh, we did not feel like it,' and I just could not get over it because...I don't know if I was disappointed or if I was happy that he hadn't done anything, I don't know. 


I think in a way it scares me because it is like, maybe because I am so dependent that it scares me to have someone that dependent on me. And the fact that he is that way, I get so upset because it's like he questions everything I do. And I have to give him like a [inaudible 28:07] because, I don't think it is that he does not trust me, but that is how unsure he is. 


And I just feel that it's like maybe that is why our marriage has fallen into the rut that it has is because we just...there are so many other things that we have that are like satisfying our needs that it is like we don't need sex with each other or something.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 29:00]


PATIENT: Well, it's like for instance, I guess what I am saying in a way is that in my eyes, I don't feel that I have a normal marriage. I feel that I have a relationship with someone.


COUNSELOR: But it is not like a marriage.


PATIENT: No. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 29:22]


PATIENT: It is just like I don't even like to use the word 'convenience' because I don't think we are married for convenience. 


COUNSELOR: Something more than that, but it's not really a marriage.


PATIENT: The way I feel right now at this precise moment, that I can go on this way for another [inaudible 29:48] But I need change, like next week I could just be going out of my mind. 


COUNSELOR: I think what you have been saying [inaudible 30:03]


PATIENT: And I guess maybe that because of my feelings for him and his feelings for me, that I would hate to [inaudible 30:14] And I really wish that we could work it out.


COUNSELOR: Yes, you would like to be happy, I mean, you would like that to be true but it's almost like all of your depression that you have been [inaudible 30:30]


PATIENT: Well, I think like the simple fact that we really just don't even talk about having children. Of course have reached a point now where we think, 'if we have them, we have them. But if we don't, we don't.'


But I don't think that either of us is capable really. 


COUNSELOR: Not just that too, but I was thinking before when you were talking about sex with each other, and the fact that you don't have any foreplay. I mean, that's a really important part of making love and one of the things that makes it enjoyable for people is that kind of sharing each other's bodies. And I am sure that is not helping.


PATIENT: You mean helping our situation?


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: Yes. Well, I don't know if I can put it into words because it is just a feeling that I have had for a long time about the sexual thing with us. But it's like I look back on all the things that I have hang ups about as far as sex is concerned, and I guess for a certain period of time, I had always thought of Charlie as being a really stupendous lover because he was really the only lover that I ever knew. And it was sort of like when things started to go downhill, I lost any type of attraction that I had for him because it was like a big disappointment. 


COUNSELOR: After [inaudible 32:42]


PATIENT: No, it wasn't always a disappointment, it was only after things started going haywire with us as far as sex was concerned that I started becoming increasingly disappointed with him in that...


COUNSELOR: You were not getting what you wanted.


PATIENT: Right. And it was like I was losing [inaudible 33:06] I guess that I have always had, or been [inaudible 33:18]


At first I thought it was really great because he wasn't that way. Maybe because my mother [inaudible 33:39] like my father forced her into making love when she really didn't want it.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 33:47] he was gentle with you, or he didn't initiate at all?


PATIENT: Well, either that he didn't initiate it or that if he would start and I would say, 'no, I'm tired,' or something, he would just go with that and he wouldn't push it any further. 


For a while, I thought that was really great. But I think after a time, I began to resent it because I felt that he should force me once in awhile. Force [inaudible 34:25] Maybe that was all I needed at that particular moment. And now the fact that he doesn't even begin, he doesn't even start, it's sort of like I have the feeling of being like a companion or a good friend or something.


COUNSELOR: Not a wife.


PATIENT: It's sort of like I have a feeling that he just is so secure and happy in this particular mood right at this moment that he doesn't want to do anything to change it. And I have always been so upset over the fact that he would not let me talk to him about sex and my problem. And I'm really [inaudible 35:41] that important anymore. Like, maybe he is the one that has to talk


COUNSELOR: And that's just some of what you were just saying that all along somehow you felt there was something wrong with the way he was with you. [inaudible 36:02]


PATIENT: Because it seems as though after I talk to you about something, I really don't have the feeling to talk to him about it. And I couldn't understand it for a while because I thought, 'he's the one I should be telling,' but I found that just by telling anyone, that was all that really counted. And that after I would talk about something, it really didn't seem that major to me. 


Now, I'm starting to feel like, 'maybe there are things that you should talk to somebody about,' and get off of your... because whenever I ask him, 'what's wrong with us? Why are we this way?' and he will only go, 'well, it's a lot of things you do,' and he goes into, 'we don't really have any time for [inaudible 37:02]'


That's his answer; it's always his answer. So then I will say, 'why don't we go to bed earlier? How do I know what you feel if you sit in the living until twelve-thirty at night, I am just thinking that your are really interested in what you are watching on television, or whatever you are reading.' I think that's basically the answer right there. But to him, it's easier to just run away from it than to face it. 


COUNSELOR: And you really want him to face it.


PATIENT: Yes, because I know that when we got married, he went through a really bad period, much more so than I did. He had tried to talk to me about it at different places and times in our marriage and I would always tune it out because I really didn't understand it at the time and I didn't know him that well. It all seemed kind of silly to me, well, just because you're married, that doesn't mean you have [inaudible 38:18] anymore. And these were things that he told me. 


But I think he really felt that way. And I feel that now that I wasn't aware at the time, that this really was the problem.


COUNSELOR: That he felt that way. 


PATIENT: Yes. I think that he felt that because I [inaudible 38:43] marriage, that he had really been cheated of two or three more years of really good time, [inaudible 38:52] whatever the good times mean to him. I really feel that he was convinced that when we got married, the marriage would never survive. I'm sure he felt that way.


And when it got to the point where he really found out that he needed me and that he was depending on me, it really started to frighten him because he really couldn't walk out of it that easily. 

I think like [inaudible 39:29] 'I really don't know why I love you [inaudible 39:34] and I don't know why I am always picking on you.' He said this was the one big thing [inaudible 39:41] was riding me all the time. And maybe in this way he unconsciously thinks he is going to drive me away, like I'm just going to disappear somewhere. 


COUNSELOR: The main thing now is you're just sitting trying to figure him out.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: You just don't know what is going on. There are a lot of hints, but it's like you can never be direct with him [inaudible 40:18] it's still the same thing and you cannot find out how he feels. You keep trying, and trying, and trying and you [inaudible 40:25]


PATIENT: I really have had some strange feelings the last two weeks that, I don't know how they can be interpreted, but I have really been getting these strong urges to go [inaudible 40:52] because I keep thinking that I have to be sensitive so that I can work if I have to. And it's sort of like I'm expecting to be left on my own. 


I can not go into detail it about it because I really have not given it that much thought, but it's just funny little things that have hitting me. And I don't know why but it's like I have a feeling that if anyone walks out, it's going to be me. For a long time I always thought that I would be the one that was [inaudible 41:38] 


COUNSELOR: So now it's like you were saying before, [inaudible 41:46] he has that desperate need for you and he doesn't really go out on his own when you leave. 


PATIENT: Another thing too, I don't know if, like earlier when I talked to you about [inaudible 42:09] and all that, I kind of want to get him interested in that. That was all my idea. And when I would bring it up, he would immediately turn it off or something, some kind of excuse. I really have a feeling that he is afraid to let himself open to anybody, that he would be like embarrassed or put down if anyone saw that he had these feelings that were really bugging him. Maybe because of the fact that he is a social worker, maybe he thinks that he's supposed to be perfect, that nothing is wrong with him. 


COUNSELOR: So [inaudible 43:11] it seems like you have tried a lot of things [inaudible 43:13]


PATIENT: No, the only time, like I said, the last week or so, I have been pretty good. And I just have been relaxed and I haven't been feeling good and he's been taking care of me. [Inaudible 43:31] have changed now. So I feel fine.


But as soon as I get back on my feet and start producing again, it will go back the other way. And I can go along with that for a while and I just have these really rebellious moods where I have to get away from it. And then that's when I start doing crazy things. 


And I don't really want to do those things but it's like I have just to break out. I have a period like that when I can go back and it's just back and forth. I don't know how long since [inaudible 44:16] but it's right now [inaudible 44:23] that I can get any kind of personal satisfaction out of life.


COUNSELOR: By staying with him?


PATIENT: By staying with him. I mean, because I really don't want to leave him, which is what's so terrible. I mean I just want to stay with him.


COUNSELOR: So, somehow, life outside seems like dangerous or [inaudible 44:46] or...


PATIENT: Yes, I don't like it. It's like I had a taste of it and I just didn't care for it. I did not want to get into that kind of life. 


COUNSELOR: By yourself?


PATIENT: Yes. [Inaudible 45:24] a whole new way of life, I don't think I could. I don't want it. 


COUNSELOR: You really want to keep this one.


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: And [inaudible 12:08] because this one is good in some ways and partly because the other one is so scary. 


PATIENT: It's good. I keep thinking, 'maybe I'm putting too much importance on the sex, maybe it's not that important.' I could along without it if I had to. The only thing bad that I'm frightened of is that I do have the periods where I [inaudible 46:11] and I really get bugged by it and then I get uptight and start feeling guilty. I guess I'm really frightened of it because I don't really don't know how in control of myself [inaudible 46:30]


COUNSELOR: Well, I think it is important. I think whatever you need for you is important. That's the biggest thing. And it sounds to me like you just get driven to these things because everything you need just somehow gets shoved in a corner and then you explode [inaudible 46:54] that is, and then have ups and downs [inaudible 46:56] So I see you in the process of thinking out what it is you are getting out of this. [Inaudible 47:10]


PATIENT: I don't know. I think the only thing that I really ever wonder about is, right now, it seems worth it me because there is no ready substitute. 


COUNSELOR: And also because the other substitute [inaudible 47:40] to navigate.


PATIENT: See, I guess that I'm the kind of person that just has to go from one situation to the next. There is no in between for me. 


If for instance, I were to meet someone that were to satisfy other needs, plus involving the ones that I have now, then I could say, 'no, it's not worth it.' But I would have to have something that I could actually point to and turn to. I couldn't just walk out because right now it is worth it to me to stick with it. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 48:21]


PATIENT: No. And I don't really feel that right now that I'm in any kind of position to do anything. I mean that's the way I feel. I don't feel that I could change my life in any way right now. I just don't think I could cope with that. 


And that would mean having a baby or divorcing, or anything. I just don't think I could cope with it. 


COUNSELOR: Any kind of change then?


PATIENT: Any kind of change at all. Because I really am like so upset with trying to get this worked out.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like all this change is just going to shove him in a corner. You have to work on this. 


PATIENT: I am really so convinced that there is the answer to it. I just really feel that there has got to be a solution to it. There is just no way possible that I could ever picture him being satisfied with this kind of [inaudible 49:41] unless there was a problem. And what do [inaudible 49:48] problems mean? Or our marriage, or something wrong with him. It's like I just have to find it out. 


COUNSELOR: You cannot end it until you at least understand it. 


PATIENT: Yes. Because I don't even have a hint of whether it bothers him as much as it bothers me. Because I cannot really feel anything, it's not even just the communicating. But if I could feel that something that was not right in his attitude or the way he would handle a situation. But it's like really in reverse. It's like we are getting better, or he is getting better. His attitude towards me has changed on a very large scale. He does not push nearly as hard and I don't feel that eye watching me all the time like he's not critically overseeing everything I do. 


But the sexual thing just has not changed at all no matter what we have done. Once we talked about...I tried to reach it from another angel, for instance, like the homosexuality. And I have brought it up more than once, not intentionally just kind of creeped out into our conversation thinking that he would come out with, 'no, but,' you know.


COUNSELOR: But what do you think is wrong with him when he is making love with you?


PATIENT: What do I feel?


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: I just feel that there is some [inaudible 52:28] at all. Whether he does or he does not, there is no difference. 


COUNSELOR: Do you want to? 


PATIENT: I don't know. I don't think about it. I don't feel it. It's not that I don't want him; I just don't really want anybody. It's more general with me. 


Like I said before, I don't have any feelings about sex. I don't get anything out of it. 


COUNSELOR: You don't have any good feelings about it they are all bad.


PATIENT: Not even that, it's sort of like [inaudible 53:22] it's like I don't have any feelings about it at all. I just don't respond to it. Which I guess could be the problem. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 53:43] time you did respond to it and something happened. [Inaudible 53:53] that you have said about this and I'm thinking of a couple things and one is when you said that you really thought men's bodies were ugly. And that repulsed you. [Inaudible 54:08] you said that when you first got married [inaudible 54:10] to you [inaudible 54:13] and then that changed. 


PATIENT: It is true about men's bodies. I just really don't get anything out of that at all. [Inaudible 54:32] but it's like when I see them undressed it turns me off. And I did enjoy sex. I mean there were points that I did enjoy it. But I don't think I ever really enjoyed it, really. I think it was something that I had talked myself into.


COUNSELOR: Something you should do?


PATIENT: Yes because for instance, I felt that I had a reached a point in my life where I should become involved with someone. 


COUNSELOR: Because it was time [inaudible 55:28] Not so much because it was something that you wanted but it was what society says [inaudible 55:36]


PATIENT: Because I never really did have a feeling about it one-way or the other. I can never honestly say that I ever would go through the preliminaries with a fellow and get to the point where I can really say that. I always said, 'no,' because I was afraid of getting pregnant, I had a big hang up about that. 


But I never suffered any traumatic experience from it, 'why can't I just say go ahead, because I really want it,' I never had that feeling with anyone. And I really think the only reason I said, 'yes,' to Charlie was because of this strange thing he had over me. This little boy quality, which I have always been attracted to.


COUNSELOR: And it was not sexual because that's just wasn't something that you had experienced.


PATIENT: No, I felt extremely close to him after I had done it and I felt like warmer and closer to him than I had to anyone else ever. But I don't think that I had the reaction to it that I should have had. It wasn't like I couldn't wait to be with him again so that I could do it again. I never had that feeling with anyone. 


COUNSELOR: Did it feel to you like it was wrong or did this feel right?


PATIENT: No, I think I had reached a point then where that kind of guilt I had done away with earlier in my life. And I always thought that anything beyond a kiss was wrong. And I would have very strong guilt feelings about it. But I didn't have that then, perhaps because I had such a trust in him that this was just something between he and I. Something that I knew he and I would just share and no one else. But I never had any guilt feelings about that particular experience with him or anything after that; I never had any guilt feelings. 


COUNSELOR: So it's just like you have never had any sexual feelings with anyone. [Inaudible 58:30] and that's kind of embarrassing to say.


PATIENT: And not really like I just don't really get this sexual feeling. Like when he had gone into basic training and I had gone to see that fellow that I had dated before him. I was very close to him, in many ways other than sexually. And I think now when I look back on it because at the time I felt very guilty about it that I had gone to dinner with him, I felt that I had betrayed Charlie. 


But I never looked at it from a sexual point. It was all like I just had a very strong feeling to be with him at that particular time. Like I need that closeness of someone. And I guess that the only way you can achieve that kind of closeness is sexually. Not sitting and talking or doing anything else. 


COUNSELOR: That is one way to get [inaudible 59:47]


PATIENT: Yes. And I had strong feelings for this man anyway. I mean, I really have a lot of respect for him and I knew he had very strong feelings for me, so it was very easy. I mean, I didn't have to be sneaky about it. I think maybe that's the type of feelings that [inaudible 60:16] sexual intercourse. Not even intercourse but just any sexual activity. 


It's like an extreme feeling of closeness. And it has to only be with a particular individual, it can't just be with anybody. And it's like it doesn't mean anything to me. I don't feel that I'm being like, I felt compelled that I had to tell Charlie about this, but I don't think I really felt that guilty about it because I didn't feel that I had really done anything wrong. 


And he didn't understand that. I mean, he felt that I [inaudible 61:02] he would. It was like I had to [inaudible 61:05] him. And I think maybe that's what I look for when someone responds to me in that way. That is the only way that I can respond back.


But I don't do it for any particular feelings that I get from it. 


COUNSELOR: Sorry for poking at you with so many questions but I have another one.


PATIENT: That's okay, I'm glad you're doing it.


COUNSELOR: Have you ever felt like someone did that which turned you on? I mean, like, I'm just talking physically [inaudible 62:02] have they done things which were good for you, which were pleasant for you? Or was it more like the 1, 2, 3 that thing you were talking about [inaudible 62:14]


PATIENT: No, because it was always the actual act of making love itself that's always turned me off. It's always been the preliminary. 


COUNSELOR: That turned you off?


PATIENT: No, that turned me on. I would be fine up to a point, and then I would start to go down. I think that's what happened with our relationship, you know, when it was still new and fresh, and it involved a lengthy time of lovemaking, when it came to the act of actual intercourse, I could accept it because I realized that he needed. So I could go along with it and I didn't really have any feelings about it one way or the other. 


But now that it's come to the point that that's all it is, it does turn me off because I just don't get any satisfaction from it. To me it's nothing. I need the preliminary. 


COUNSELOR: Yes, that was all good for you.


PATIENT: Yes. That was the only thing that was ever good for me.


COUNSELOR: Were you able to come in all of that?


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: But that was just from the foreplay and not the actual intercourse.


PATIENT: Right. That's why I think that I never ever desired to have intercourse with anyone, because I didn't need it. I had always achieved my satisfaction before it. So all of that was like secondary to me. And I don't think that...thinking back over my relationship with Charlie, that I ever displayed this because I never can remember being hostile about it, or cold like, 'okay, now it's your turn.' I never felt that way.


COUNSELOR: It was okay with you as along as you got what you wanted first.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And what you're saying is happening now with Charlie is you like the...


END TRANSCRIPT
