TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Client No.: 1429-110, Interview No.: 18, Therapist: [inaudible], March 25, 1971
COUNSELOR: How's your dad doing? 0:00:52.2
PATIENT: Pretty well. 
COUNSELOR: turn it on, okay, let's get ready for this.
COUNSELOR: You have a cold?
PATIENT: Hum? 
COUNSELOR: got a cold?
PATIENT: Yeah I guess, I never had this before. I get colds now and I, before they'd last like two days. Now I get them and, yeah, I've had this about a week, I think. I don't get rid of them, that's what therapy does for me, see -
COUNSELOR: [chuckling] or the lack of it.
PATIENT: huh?
 
COUNSELOR: or the lack of it.
PATIENT: I don't know, yeah that's right, I haven't had it for a while. So let me get my head on.
COUNSELOR: what is this? Number 18?
PATIENT: Right. Number 17.
COUNSELOR: 18.
PATIENT: I'm in another class or seminar with one of your guys. At least from here. From the (inaudible at 0:02:02.3) Center. A guy named Fred.
COUNSELOR: um-hum
PATIENT: Fred something, I don't remember.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. He's not actually on the staff here, but he's involved in a program that some of us here are involved in, with your employment service.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's over at Micro-Breeze [ph].
COUNSELOR: um-hum
PATIENT: I don't know what's gonna happen, its all group stuff. Group psychotherapy. Let's see, where am I at? I can't remember where I left off. 
I don't know if I really feel like talking about girls, that's mostly...0:03:01.0 
I just got done placing, or not placing, my case load ... Breaking up again. And took this kid to an outfit that's supposed to place kids. It's supposed to place them at YMCA's and I was riding back. And I had this weird feeling, like I didn't...I didn't talk to him all the way back. Usually I'll start talking to them. And sometimes he'll talk, sometimes he won't. Today I thought I'd see if he wanted to talk, he didn't talk for about a half an hour, well all the way back to Manhattan. Which left me feeling kind of, well I was tired so I didn't even want to talk. He knew that, so I don't know. 
There's things that I want to talk about, but I can't, I still can't put my finger on it. Like I know I've got a, I've got to make a decision. You know. Whether or not I want to continue individual, I know that for program purposes it's off. And I know part of this one class I'm in is a group development kind of thing. I'm in another class now which is also (inaudible at 0:04:43.6) group stuff.
There's so many things that really don't make sense to me that I feel ... I feel like maybe I've just got picture of, that, you know, like nothing fits together yet. 
COUNSELOR: Flat pictures. They're not three dimensional. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You're out of sequence. 0:05:15.7
PATIENT: Right. And then they're not even full pictures. They're glimpses. Especially like over the last month or so. It's like, like I'm really trying to avoid committing myself to anything or anyone. My friend Kathleen, you know, I was really getting feeling kind of close to her, now she's coming back to New York. In fact she's here today. Then I kind of have myself half way involved with Jane too. Both girls I really like and you know its like, its like, cause I was getting close to Kathleen, I immediately asked out Jane just to kind of, you know, stop that or at least cause me ambivalence again. 0:06:14.1
And in my job, I really ... in the mornings, you know. Like I'm late fifteen minutes every morning. I'm regular, I'm very regular in my amounted time I'm late. And it's still like... Now it's almost like a fear, of ... I don't know if it's a fear of jumping in to it, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Jumping into what? An involvement? 0:07:14.6
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it...I can not understand it. Because... it's like some things isolating me from everything around me. Like even eating, eating things. It's like now I'm trying to sabotage everything I do. I was going to start, you know, really dieting. And I intentionally eat much more than I have to. For no reason, no reason that I know. Like I'm even a little afraid now on these course things. Like I spent a lot of money for that one over at Micro-Breeze [ph]. And I'm afraid, you know like I'm not going to bear down there too. I'm not really going to get into it. And I have been asking myself "why?". I haven't been paying attention a lot to what's going on within me. It's kind of this whole blah and, you know, even talking about it, its just blah. 0:08:50.6
COUNSELOR: Can't really get into anything.
PATIENT: No. No it's just like... the kind of feeling that you have when you watch a really bad movie for three or four hours. And you think, you know, what a waste. And yet what can you do about it. It's like so. And yet I feel like I'm getting ulcers, you know. It's that kind of thing. It doesn't really hurt, but down here it doesn't feel very good. I don't know if I'm getting chicken shit or what. If I'm-
COUNSELOR: Chicken shit about what? 
PATIENT: Um, about chasing myself around, about trying to trying to find out what I'm about. Like I'm trying to say when kind of my interested lagged. Well whatever it was it came on me. And there is nothing I can find. I think that, I don't that I even got a normal [inaudible]. I and started thinking maybe I'm gay, but that didn't even. I don't think I am, you know. I don't know. 0:10:24.7
COUNSELOR: It didn't really affect you is what you are saying, huh?
PATIENT: Yeah, it caused me to wonder but only like I was observing myself. And, you know there are things that I can now. I can see that I rarely will take the initiative. I rarely just come out and say what I want to do. Cause I rarely, I think I rarely know. But to me that all that says is you know that that's the way it, it doesn't say why nor does it say how I can change that. 
 Its almost like saying that that's, you know, that's just the way it is. And I hate saying that, you know, it just is. It's like giving up, its like truly kind of like you know saying you're beat. I don't know if it's just like a passing thing that, that I don't really too much of a damn about anything. 0:11:42.6
COUNSELOR: Do you feel beat?
PATIENT: Feel tired, yeah. I don't know if it's this cold or what's been going on. I usually tell like my house is a mess, I haven't washed dishes for a week. This last weekend.
COUNSELOR: No Tuesday [inaudible] for anything.
PATIENT: Yeah not really. Unless you know I'm feeling- Well at best its confused. About both Jane and Kathleen. I'm wondering what is really going to happen. I mean its part, it's like there's nothing stable. Nothing stable. That's unstable. The job is really like the things are blowing up. There's about four or five things all blowing up at once. And it seems like I can deal with things a little while. But in order to really deal with them I have to be consistent. And then, then I, I deal with them enough so that I can the ship, you know, floating. But not enough to really get after it all completely.
 It's like the other day, somebody called me up that I really didn't want to talk to. So I told her, you know, I don't want to be bothered today because I am in a bad humor. Well it wasn't so much that I was in a bad humor I just don't like talking to her. I hate being like, like subject to this kind of a mood. It's not even a depression it's a zero feeling. 0:14:26.7
COUNSELOR: Yeah, a non-involvement.
PATIENT: Yeah, like Kathleen's up here and I just can't even get fired up. I can't.
COUNSELOR: should you? 
PATIENT: Well yeah I think, I think I should enough to, you know, to want to, you know, to want to talk. Because when I do start talking I feel, you know, I feel better. A little better. But it's such a zilchy kind of of
COUNSELOR: maybe you should just wait for her to call you.
PATIENT: Yeah well she's going to, you know. And 
COUNSELOR: Like it or not is that what you are saying? She's going to call me.
PATIENT: Well she came up unexpectedly. She came up to look for job. 
COUNSELOR: After you told her you loved her. 0:15:23.9
PATIENT: Yeah well that was about a month ago.
COUNSELOR: As soon as she could come.
PATIENT: Nah, she didn't have to come now. Like she wasn't, she wasn't going to come till after Easter. And I think, I think, well part of the reason she came is because schools really bad. They had the final, the final quarter, quarter rush date. And it's blowing her mind because she has a special project. Maybe that, maybe that's what irritates me when she comes, I don't know anything about it. Emotionally, I, what I'm doing emotionally is trying not to put up my, my, all my defenses. I'm not trying to do that. 0:16:19.7 
 Um, like she's really into a lot of things and she's really doing some good things. And she feels like she knows what she's doing. Which makes me feel like a complete imbecile again. What happened yesterday? Oh I saw her last night and at some point I made about her mother. Oh her mother had said that she has this big thing that she's not dependent on her parents. I says well how did you get here. You know. She said well that was an exception, she said. Because had paid half the fare for her to come home. So I don't know. I don't know why I said that. I guess I wanted to get into an argument with her.
 Tomorrows her birthday. 16th I guess it is. And [inaudible] It's like. It's like being under the control of something that I don't understand. And not, and not really wanting to fight it. It's kind of like almost like a wanting to like give up, you know. [inaudible] I don't even like that, god. 0:19:19.0
COUNSELOR: Why not? How does that feel?
PATIENT: It's just this-
COUNSELOR: Giving up?
PATIENT: I don't know, I couldn't stand to hear some, to just. Alright if I was in your place, and someone would be, would be as listless as they way I seem to feel myself right now. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'd kick them in the butt. Yeah, I really would. That's, and I don't think I want you to kick me in the butt. I mean I wish what I could do is kick myself in the butt. Maybe that's what's I'm trying to do. But I don't like people, you know, like to, well like Kathleen came and she said she's going to cheer me up. Well I usually can't be cheered up if I choose not be. Ah man I don't want to go. That's really like a non productive feeling. 0:20:35.5
I don't know it was partly this thing last night. We were all asking what we're, what we were going to do. You know, why we're there, what did we want out of the group. And I said you know, I wanted something like a feeling of a defined usefulness, you know. Using whatever group methodology theme that they have. If there are such things, I don't even know that there are such things. And uh. It was like I was evaluating what other people would say. And to me the other people's responses were more, either more professional, more thought out.
COUNSELOR: Like you were the ninny.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: About being a ninny.
PATIENT: Not being a ninny, but I just, I must have started with, you know, with, it just one guy made a comment who I, and I kind of related to that comment. But I related to it, I just saw this movie Joel again. And I had been doing it [inaudible] But in this movie there is a section where the guys says, Joel's [inaudible] needs them. Have you seen that? 0:21:56.7
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: Where he says "do you ever get the feeling where everything you do is was worth about a crock of shit." I don't know I said that and then I said oh you know. Even the word shit isn't too good with a bunch of people I, you know, hardly, hardly know.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: Everybody else is using more professional kinds of words. Maybe that is why I used it, I don't know. I can't, you know I can't get out what's -
COUNSELOR: Can't get out what's really bothering you, huh. 0:22:48.4
PATIENT: eh, eh, usually, you know, its something happens that I can relate to, I can think about. But this is just like a huge general blah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well it sounds like last night anyhow you felt really inadequate in the face of all those professionals around you. You weren't on the-
PATIENT: yeah
COUNSELOR: - level of par with them.
PATIENT: Yeah I think I maybe felt more than I let on. You know more than I'd let on to anyone.
COUNSELOR: All because you were at this seminar instead of graduate school, hum.
PATIENT: [inaudible] well like there five nurses. I felt somewhere in the lower middle of the group [inaudible]. 0:23:42.9
COUNSELOR: Above or below the nurses?
PATIENT: Above them. I had to prove myself [inaudible].
COUNSELOR: But still not up to where you'd like to be. Like lower middle but below all the other men, huh? You may be above the women but not above any of the men.
PATIENT: Not even above all the women because there were two women that were there for the [inaudible]. I don't know. I said it that way but I don't, I don't know. Yeah because the guys would talk, the guys would talk different than the women. I think I talk more like the women than the men. 0:24:38.1
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: The guys would talk more, what I can professional like. Except maybe two of them. Yeah, I didn't even think of it that way. I don't know you know, maybe I was like uncomfortable, I can't even tell anymore. I can't 
COUNSELOR: alright well let me put the question to you another way. Was there any man there that you felt than you were better than?
PATIENT: Well last night, I, you know, I did I don't think evaluated them.
COUNSELOR: Well evaluate it right now.
PATIENT: Better than. You mean more adequate in the group. 0:25:44.3
COUNSELOR: More adequate in anyway that you want to define.
PATIENT: Alright in a situation in which professional adequacy was demanded. In other words like leading a group. Something like that. If it would have been an in dept kind of therapy group, I would have felt myself probably, lets say there were ten men there, I would have felt myself 8th or 9th. If it would have been [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: Not tenth huh?
PATIENT: No, not tenth. I would put myself quite that far down.
COUNSELOR: You can think of someone who is below you.
PATIENT: Yeah, but in a different context. You know, in a buzz group context. In a lighter kind of context, or in a social context. I would have put myself forth. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but that's not what counted according to what you're saying or what you are thinking about last night.
PATIENT: [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: socializing, it's being professional. No?
PATIENT: The professionally I could, I couldn't put myself up there. 0:26:50.4
COUNSELOR: Who the fuck expects you to be able to lead a group on the first night that you are meeting about how to lead groups?
PATIENT: No, but it's just, it was like, it was like my feelings about myself up to that point. The same sort of feelings that everybody in that room had about themselves up to that point. 
COUNSELOR: yeah.
PATIENT: and the only way I could have of knowing. You know and I didn't think this stuff. I didn't feel that.
COUNSELOR: I know you didn't.
PATIENT: But.
COUNSELOR: I'm forcing you to now.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. 0:27:28.4
COUNSELOR: pointing it out. Go on.
PATIENT: And that, you know, that and then I, you know, I would have made the comparisons and I would have felt myself coming up short. And I, you know, like for most.
COUNSELOR: With out even knowing these people.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: schmuck. 
PATIENT: I don't know, like, like most of, most of the time this happens and like with these kids though too, I, I,
COUNSELOR: schmuck.
PATIENT: No, not a schmuck. Because I know that there is people that do, you know, that, that, that aren't as perceptive as I am. I know there is people more perceptive. But it seems that like when I talk to other people on the phone, like I had call from a psychologist today, oh god, I was already. You know, I actually think I'm a really get hung on this one. Because I think made four really bad teaching decisions in regard to a kid. And I, I know that somewhere along the line there must be a reason, like I don't make usually, you know a decision. 
COUNSELOR: so in other words the psychologist is correct and you are wrong. 0:28:38.2
PATIENT: Yeah, I thought he was. Like this kid I've been working, I mean he's one of the few kids who I see a lot and I see the mother a lot. Like maybe, maybe twenty visits the last year. One of the few, you know. And this, this psychologist calls me up and he says, you know, what do you know about this kid. So I said because this guy tested him. And I said, and I told him a little bit about what I thought and about what I knew about him. And I was trying not to get all super defensive, so I tried to hear him out what he was saying. And he says do you know that the mother when she brought the kid in was nipping out in the lobby?
 I says I don't believe it. And he says yeah, he says the receptionist is no reason to lie to me. So she's usually, you know, never had a, and she's took it out and was nipping a couple of time when the kid was in there. The kids was in there for three hours. I says god I really surprised, I said because, you know, she's, she's under doctors orders not to. She is seeing a psychiatrist. I have been out there a thousand times and I've sometimes smell, you know, trying to smell and see if there is anything wrong. Nothing. As far as know. 0:29:47.6
 Which is really bad if she is because that means that this kid is probably really getting screwed up again. If she is getting bombed. 
COUNSELOR: Who said that she is getting bombed?
PATIENT: Well the pattern before was that she was an alcoholic up until about a little over a year and half ago. When she, she either had to drinking or she was going to die because she had such bad ulcers. And that was complete drinking. No more, she didn't mess around at all. But I was just so shocked that the guy said that she was drinking, she was nipping. I figure if she's nipping in an office, you know, in the psychologists office she's probably doing pretty good work at home, if this is so. 
But I just couldn't believe it, you know, cause I, I thought Alector you're really a ninny. You know. I immediately thought the guy's right and I'm not right. That I really don't, I really don't believe in myself. I don't. You know I don't know where I ever got [inaudible] I got the confidence kicked out of me and unless I did it to myself. Maybe that's it, you know, I know really. And that's almost the feeling I get before too. 0:31:35.0
Was like can't do it anyhow so why try. This kind of thing. See, you know, where does it begin? What was I even thinking today when I ate? Just a thought came to me. It was like, it just came out of the blue. It was, I was sitting and eating. Well I ate one place and then I went into another and ate again right afterwards because I didn't have to pick this kid up for while. 
And I thought, thought about this time in senior college. And then it was announced over the loud speakers, I was on the tennis team. And we were playing this one school who we were going wax and you know. But they had their number one man. Was. Hadn't been beat in two years. Never been beat in two years. And I was number one at the time so I had been playing. And its funny, well I beat the guy it straights hits and I. And its one of the few times where I really felt that I didn't luc- although when I shook hands with the guy I said, I said I lucked out. But I didn't luck out. I didn't, I beat him good. 0:33:16.0
I played the best tennis I have ever played. And you know like even then I couldn't admit it. And it was like, it was like it was wrong, it's really wrong. To admit that you really did something good or that you really beat somebody and you did it because you had the ability. Like that's almost wrong. Maybe, you know maybe this is it. Its, its, well it's like the old that phrase that kept coming up before. If, you know be a good boy and take your beating. It's almost like if I am good at something. It's like I always got to apologize and say I'm not good at it. And I always know that I have always done that. 
When I've done something really well, I can't allow myself to, you know, I can a little more, you know. Because I have seen it that's not really right either. But I still feel when I do something really well or someone compliments me. Now I'll say thank you. But I still feel like you don't deserve that. And you're, that, your not that's, that's not right. See, you know, it makes me go in circles then though. 0:34:55.0 
Because if I kept thinking of all kinds of things that have happened. Like I did this questionnaire at the other office. And the psychiatrist who likes to, I don't know if its psychiatrist like gods. And really compliments me and said you have to be commended on this. And I couldn't, I got all embarrassed. No I got embarrassed and red in the face. And then said but you could have done it better. And that just, god, I was shattered. I wanted to run a hide, I felt like crying. [inaudible] thing is you know, I really got it, somebody's got to tell me I did a good job, but when they do I can't accept it. 
COUNSELOR: Or when they take it away you really feel shattered. 0:35:51.7
PATIENT: Yeah, but I mean how, I get screwed either way. I mean if I do right I almost feel bad. Not quite so much as I would. I remember you know like when before when I really. Like in high school, sometimes I would really get good grades or I remember times when, when. One time I had a 100 on a test. Nobody else in the whole god damn school had a 100 and I remember I, I hid it. You know, but I wanted people to see it, but I hid it. Because I knew if I hid it, the guys, the guys would still know that it was me. But, you know, I couldn't feel good about it. Maybe, you know, maybe [inaudible] that doesn't [inaudible]. 
I guess [inaudible]. Maybe that's, you know, like maybe why I thought about that at lunch. It just came from nowhere and there is this little phrase of this one roommate that I used to room with. He says "Alector" he says "anytime it's a tough chance" you know this is always in sports. He says "or something is difficult, you know like almost impossible" He says "I never sweat you" He says "but if its, if it's a pop up. Straight to me or it's the routine, the daily." He says then he worries. You know it's like that was the other thing I thought about at lunch. 0:38:00.5
COUNSELOR: Is that true? You can take care of the extraordinary things but the common things throw you.
PATIENT: Most times, yeah. Not always in the extraordinary things. But yeah a good many times. Like if it's a pressured kind of thing, that I know that I really, you know, that I, that I feel I can do it, then I can do it. Especially if it is in sports. Unless I'm, you know in a bracket where, you know, the guys are almost professional. I've been in some of those brackets where, and I still think I could, unless there I psyche myself. Most places, in sports it's always you've got to out psyche yourself. But you know day to day stuff. Like, you know. You know what my ma always told me to do it right though. 
COUNSELOR: The day to day stuff?
PATIENT: Yeah. My ma always said big phrase, in fact one of the few phrases I remember from my ma. "When as task is once begun, never leave it till it's done." [inaudible - overlapping talking] 0:39:39.7
COUNSELOR: [inaudible - overlapping talking]
PATIENT: Yeah maybe. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible] you're so full of attitude.
PATIENT: Yeah but that's not [inaudible] for me. I mean, that will happen only, only when I decide to leave myself and you know and just go ahead and keep busy. Like I've really been busy doing things. 
 Okay, even if I see it though, well so what? I'm kicked in the ass if I do a good job and can't feel good about. So why do it in the beginning? If I don't do the job the well then I feel shitty anyway. And you know somewhere. Like I'm laying there in the morning and know that I'm getting late and I won't get up. You know, completely rationally know I'm not tired, I'm wide awake and I won't get up. I won't move. You know, which it seems to mean to me, you know, that something is telling me something but I don't know what. You know. 0:41:32.5
COUNSELOR: You don't feel like doing anything.
PATIENT: Yeah, but why? I mean I, you know.
COUNSELOR: Because you don't enjoy what you are doing.
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe. But I think I don't enjoy what I going, because I don't put myself into it. I mean, you know, there are certain things that even if I am the shittiest feeling person around. Like maybe if I don't have no empathy, nothing. Maybe if I hate these kids, maybe I do hate these kids. But even so I could read the damn manual and be able to say to the kids, you know, look when you turn 17, you know, you can get your own apartment and say that "this is what you can do". And yet, you know, I lack, I don't even do that. Unless I want somebody to tell me that I have to do it. That's the way I have to work. 
Like I'm leaning to ways especially with girls. Like, you know, on is that it wouldn't, I betcha, I would start giving up. But then it's not me, its somebody else again. 0:43:08.1
COUNSELOR: wait a minute I don't understand what you're saying. 
PATIENT: You know like I was thinking, you know like, I would get more stabilized. Supposedly stable thing, if I would start dating one girl again and kind of hang up all this fooling around. But then I always have this feeling that, that it wasn't me, you know that was actually directing my own self. It was either the relationship or it was the girl. And again not me. I don't know why I don't believe I can do that. I don't-
COUNSELOR: Yeah why not. Why you don't you believe you can do anything.
PATIENT: You know, I. I'd like to blame my ma, but I don't even know how to blame her anymore. 
COUNSELOR: Well it's kind of too late to worry about her anyhow. Isn't it?
PATIENT: Well only in terms of understanding why I am this way.
COUNSELOR: But it is you who has to change. 0:44:19.0 
PATIENT: Okay, you know, let's say, let's say I say okay I can change. You know. Yeah but then [inaudible], you know. That would I mean why.
COUNSELOR: Yeah but not unless you want to I guess. 
PATIENT: I mean there are two things working in my head again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what are they?
PATIENT: One, like I say okay I want to weigh 170, okay. Alright then there is this other thing that -
COUNSELOR: Why do you want to weigh 170?
PATIENT: Well my beginning reason was when I got the book by Stillman and it says, it says you live longer, it's healthier for. 0:45:09.6
COUNSELOR: Such a good life you want to live longer huh?
PATIENT: you know, not this morbid it is, it's much better. You can wear better clothes, which I never did. I never even paid attention to clothes. You know, if it fit you can get a bigger selection. And you can get into a swimming suit without have your part fall all over. Which I swim a lot. When I play tennis, I play tennis better when I am lighter and I feel much better. I can run faster.
COUNSELOR: Are those your goals? Are those you want to do? Run faster? Play tennis better? Not have your [inaudible] show over your swimming trunks. Have a wide selection of clothing?
PATIENT: Yeah in the area like-
COUNSELOR: No I asked if that is what you want to do.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think I want to do those things. I don't think those are the only things I want to do, but I think in the area of the weight that's what- 0:46:29.4
COUNSELOR: Okay but what are the important things you do. Is that the most important thing?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: What is?
PATIENT: the most important thing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: but I don't have just one. The word I want to say is to be useful. You know, to be useful for myself and for other people. And the other one is, is to like know myself. But that doesn't strike. 0:47:24.0 
COUNSELOR: And where is loosing weight for them to loose too?
PATIENT: okay, I think, you know, its like if I am useful to myself, it means that I will respect myself. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but that's not what your talking about. You are talking about useful to other people.
PATIENT: No I said useful to other people and to myself. 
COUNSELOR: So is loosing five or ten pounds going to do that for you?
PATIENT: Um hum. Yeah, yeah. Because I think, it's well it's another thing. Okay if I loose five or ten pounds.
COUNSELOR: Let me suggest to you that instead of looking at five or six or how ever many things that are [inaudible] that you want to do. It may pay to try to focus in on one or two. Which you can really focus on and work at instead of having five or six that you can't work at. Its like the more things you want to do, maybe the less you can do in any of them. And maybe if there's just a few things you'll be able to do them. 0:48:52.9 
PATIENT: Yeah. Well that's true and I've tried to do that. You know, like of course. My lists have shrunk from like 100
COUNSELOR: Now look that you're ultimately going to be able going to do all those things. 
PATIENT: I'll never do all of them.
COUNSELOR: Yeah but the point is that maybe you know the best way operate is to work on one thing at a time and when you have a list of a 100 things that's overwhelming. Who the hell can do 100 things at once?
PATIENT: Well I know I can't. 0:49:28.2
COUNSELOR: Well I don't know anybody who can, you're no different.
PATIENT: I still think I can five things at a time. 
COUNSELOR: But you're not. So you can't.
PATIENT: [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: So let's widdle the list down some more.
PATIENT: You should be able to diet at the same time that you.
COUNSELOR: Don't say should. I don't believe in should. 
PATIENT: Okay at one time I said to myself I can diet and read at the same time. That I know from experience. For one month I did that. And I lost 35 pounds. So that much I know I can do. But it seems I can't do it now. 
COUNSELOR: And be useful at the same time. [phone ringing] Hello, huh. Okay. No. No. Okay. See you when what ten? Bye-Bye. Okay well the words I am going to leave with today are why the hell do have to do five things at one time if you can't do them, why not one thing at time. 0:50:45.6
PATIENT: okay but-
COUNSELOR: And one for the next time.
PATIENT: Yeah, I can see that but the. I think the same thing with all -
COUNSELOR: Yeah but see you know you're doing it now. You're taking not only are doing individual therapy, now but you are taking two courses in group therapy.
PATIENT: Yeah, I want too. The one is
COUNSELOR: Why do you spread yourself out like that?
PATIENT: After I did I started looking at it.
COUNSELOR: And now there Kathleen, there too. Maybe it's because you are afraid to go after any one thing afraid that it won't work out.
PATIENT: Yeah well I [inaudible] if, if- 0:51:43.9 
COUNSELOR: But it will, if you give yourself a chance. Stop being so afraid of yourself. You think you have to loose weight.
PATIENT: Well I was thinking about that. That's why I said [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: yeah but that's not [inaudible] in my mind, see?
PATIENT: Huh. Yeah but you did that by the time you're fifty, you know. I got a friend who's 80 pounds over. 100 pounds over, I'll bet. Don't phase him, keeps eating like pig. You're not that bad yet.
COUNSELOR: Not quite yet. You ought to be jealous of guys like us, we don't worry about our weight. 
PATIENT: Well I've never been until a year ago, and then I started to really worry about because I looked at myself one day in the mirror, "and god Alector you're really fat." And I really was. 0:52:41.7
COUNSELOR: See you Thursday. 
PATIENT: Thursday. Well I got a course in teaching too. Holy shit.
COUNSELOR: Okay see you then.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: On old fool's day.
PATIENT: Is that it?
COUNSELOR: April 1st.
PATIENT: [inaudible]. 0:53:38.7
END TRANSCRIPT
