TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: It's probably a low priority.
CLIENT: So, a lot has happened. My roommate is in the hospital with some kind of gastrointestinal something or other, that might be a random flare-up of colonitis, or it might be Crohn's disease. They're doing tests, she should come home today.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's too bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I got food poisoning on Sunday.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: There was a delay coming back here for a day.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So I was like flat on my back Sunday and Monday. My ex-boyfriend is getting married. That's not actually a big deal.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I just you know, I just found it out and I was kind of amused by it. I forgot to call my mother on Mother's Day because I was throwing up. Amanda, like I went to see her with my—my dad and I went to see her on Friday, when I got into Richmond, and she was just having a rough time, but it was coming out in kind of one of her more manic places, and so she really needed me to be like right up there with her, which is really fun for us. So like it is bad, but it would be like, we would be like ha-ha-ha-ha, and then she would leave the room and I would start crying. And then she would come back in the room and I'd be like ha-ha-ha-ha. So that was really bad and exhausting. [0:01:36.2]
THERAPIST: That sounds exhausting, yeah.
CLIENT: James was supposed to get in on Friday and he was only going to be there from Friday late at night until Sunday afternoon anyway, and then his airline messed up and so he didn't get in until Saturday at 1:00. I had just found out on Friday night, when I was already like exhausted and crying. I just found out that James was not going to get in that night, and then Amanda called me and she had just found out that her ex-boyfriend is hooking up with the person that he was hooking up with before they started dating, that he broke up with to date Amanda.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And so she's like furious at him and I was just like Amanda, I can't talk to you right now, and she was like okay, bye.
THERAPIST: How long have they been done?
CLIENT: Less than a month, like two or three weeks.
THERAPIST: And how long were they together?
CLIENT: Four to six months, six months or so.
THERAPIST: Gotcha. So it's all very fresh. [0:02:36.2]
CLIENT: Yes. And she was really broken up about it anyway, for various reasons, and I was just like I can't be—I can't talk to you.
THERAPIST: You said something about a lot having happened? (both chuckle)
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds that way, yeah.
CLIENT: I'm coping. I'm just not feeling any of it. I'm just kind of doing what—I've been just doing what I have to do. The wedding was really fun, as it turns out. I spent most of my time at my in-laws, like taking a nap whenever my—
THERAPIST: Which day was the wedding?
CLIENT: The wedding was on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Good, just in that you weren't sick.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was not sick.
THERAPIST: Didn't miss anything.
CLIENT: It was good. I think it was taking a small amount for Mother's Day lunch that I had the catfish, I think that was a bad idea. I spent a lot of time kind of hiding from my siblings in-law, because I love them but they're exhausting. [0:03:46.6]
THERAPIST: How many do you have?
CLIENT: Four. And two of them have husbands and babies, and so it was like—
THERAPIST: It adds up to a lot.
CLIENT: A lot of people and they all really love me, which is really good, but particularly, like my sisters in-law really want to be sisters to me, which is really wonderful but hard for me. (laughs nervously) So I did finally touch base with Amanda again, over just like tea chat this morning, and she said—I don't even know if I should be bringing this up. I feel bad about talking about it but it did really hurt me that you couldn't talk to me and I am still really hurt by that, and I'm not blaming you, because I know that you're just taking care of yourself, but I'm really hurt by that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then like yeah, I think it's reasonable for you to be hurt by that, but at the same time, there wasn't anything I could do. [0:04:49.6]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I still feel bad about it. So in other words, what are we supposed to do now. (laughs) I did have a meeting with a new psychiatrist, a guy.
THERAPIST: Right, he left me a message.
CLIENT: He's also at the university. It was a consult with him and that went pretty well.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I was really not looking forward to talking with somebody new. Sometimes when I'm... Sometimes when I'm on the defensive, I get pushy or defensive, and I think I am perceived as a difficult patient, and so I was really anxious not to do that. But I didn't get that vibe from him, so I feel like that went well. I told Dr. V that I'd try not to piss him off.
THERAPIST: Also, I touched base with Dr. V. [0:05:55.0]
CLIENT: Okay, yeah.
THERAPIST: Last week, on Friday.
CLIENT: Yeah, she told me that. She basically said—I mean she's on vacation right now, or was gone. I assume she's on vacation, I hope she's on vacation. So I'm going to meet with her on June 1st next and I think in the meantime, she and the doctor, they're going to consult and we're going to come up with a plan then, or start coming up with a plan. Oh, and I skipped a period, so I thought I was pregnant for like four days.
THERAPIST: Oh my gosh.
CLIENT: I'm not pregnant but that was also fun. (nervous laughter) It happened to be like not—like this happened a couple of times before, so I wasn't too worried. (overlapping) I mean, I'm just on birth control and I have very light periods. It's just one of those things.
THERAPIST: So it's fast.
CLIENT: But like, I had to do the test, you know spend a couple of days being like so, what would a baby look like in my current situation. [0:07:03.8]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Including a baby. You know like, actually I talked about it with James last night and he said no, we would have made it work, it would have been really good, and I said yeah, it would have been really good, but it's really good that I'm not pregnant. (laughs) So.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah. I hope you had a good weekend. (both laugh)
THERAPIST: Thank you. Thank you. When did you then get back?
CLIENT: Yesterday morning and I took a nap, a short nap, and then I went to meet with the doctor, and then I went to see Kirsten in the hospital, and then I came back and had some wine, which in retrospect was not the best idea but probably not the worst idea either, you know? Better than cutting myself, worse than watching Dr. Who. (laughs) [0:08:14.2]
THERAPIST: So, the spectrum.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And how did the rest of the day and evening go?
CLIENT: It was like I'm going, I'm kind of probably heading for a breakdown and I'm just not up for that right now, and so I just was saying let's steer away from other things.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I had a good talk with James. He's really sad too, you know? Just he didn't—some days he just can't go to work at all and yesterday was one of those days and you know, he was feeling like I would—like I would be disappointed in him if he didn't finish his degree or finished it—taking forever, and I just had to say no. I'm not happy with the way that things are, but given what we knew at the time, I would still make all of our choices over again. I still think it's better for you to finish this degree in a good way and I told him, well I've been factoring in days when you can't go into work because of despair as just part of the game, since you've been there for about six months, so that's not new to me. You know, that was funny, but I think that basically is what goes on. So I think I was able to kind of comfort him a little bit. (pause) Yeah, there's been a lot going on. [0:10:00.2]
THERAPIST: There sure has, absolutely. What comes to mind?
CLIENT: I don't know what to do. I don't know, I'm just so upset that—you know, I'm most upset about Amanda and most upset that I couldn't—I just couldn't be there for her. I'm upset that—I mean the way that Friday afternoon went, I feel like... (laughs) I mean at one point I did say this ridiculous thing, where she was supposed to—she just really, really needed help. Her youth group kids were supposed to make a cake for a birthday party the next day, as part of a fundraiser, for a kid's birthday party, and they crapped out on her, so she had to make the cake, and the dog had eaten half of the cake. And so my dad had just picked me up at the airport. We stopped by like three different bakeries and grocery stores and finally found an un-iced sheet cake, you know brought it back. [0:11:21.7]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It was supposed to be like an artist theme party, so she was supposed to decorate the cake as like an artist theme. I helped her decorate the cake and that turned into like hilarity all around, I mean it really is. At one point I was like you know Amanda, when I was in the hospital—and I was like laughing as I said this. When I was in the hospital, there were these two girls who were manic and they would just like run up and down the hall like giggling all the time. We are those girls. It's not we are like those girls, we ARE those girls. (laughs) So it's like on the one hand, like yes, I'm really in some ways really enjoying myself, but in some ways, I know this is going to—like I'm not going to be good for anything for the rest of the day, and I'm also really like, I feel like hiding my own distress in order to support Amanda, and not always doing that very successfully. But I don't, I don't know what to do you know? She really needs help and I want to help her, and in some ways I need to help her, I need to be the person that she can call, but she needs way—like she needs more than I can do and I... You know, when it comes down to it, it's like I felt like I was making the choice between talking her through this problem or making it through the night, and I was like, I'm not going to talk to you right now, I can't. [0:13:05.2]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like you know, I don't—(sighs). I don't know how to be okay with that, even though I'm still convinced that that was the right thing to do, it was the only thing I could do.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Thursday and Friday. I spent Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, at least like four to six hours of the day basically either crying or like staring catatonic out the window, like I wasn't functioning. (voice is shaky) But like, you do what you have to do, sort of. (sniffles) [0:14:09.8]
You know and she understands. We talked about this, I mean she has also, like she intellectually understands that I need to take care of myself, and she wants me to take care of myself, and she understands that there's only so much I can do and that there's only so much emotional energy that I have for anybody. And so I don't—
THERAPIST: But she doesn't sort of emotionally understand that in a way?
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: I mean, I guess where I'm going is maybe you guys are sort of on the same page in that way.
CLIENT: (laughs) Very much. We're—yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean you sort of present like reasonably, that you know you did what you could have done and you made the right decision, but I guess that's not what it feels like at all. [0:15:21.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, or at least half the time, and the other half it feels like... I also resent that, that she's asking me and my father to be you know, her therapists, to be support when she really needs professional support.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Although I mean again, it's not like I can point to the last year and a half and be like look how successful this has been for me. But I feel like it really has been helpful for me and I also you know, I said what I had to say to her, like I said what I think several times. I say it when it seems appropriate and it's not my job to guilt trip her and it's going to be kind of what I do. [0:16:24.9]
THERAPIST: You mean to guilt trip her about what you were just saying to me?
CLIENT: Yeah, and to, to either—
THERAPIST: Tell her that it's like, go get a shrink or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. Or you know, I mean it doesn't have to be a therapist, like just seeing...
THERAPIST: Someone.
CLIENT: Somebody, yeah. There is a lot of clergy there and now she knows all of them. I'm pretty sure she could find a spiritual director without any trouble, who would be very good. I just feel like you know,—oh and then there was all of Friday and Saturday I was fretting because my friend Ashley was at the wedding. I've bailed on her, from going to visit her at least two or three times. I had made plans to go see her on Saturday before the wedding, and with James not getting in until the afternoon, I wasn't going to be able to do that and I wasn't in any shape to go see her. So you know, that was another huge thing and I—that got resolved pretty well in that I just called her and told her all of that, like I just said you are the most important person for me to talk to at this wedding, I really, really care about you. I do not want to let you down again but this is the situation. Can you come up and see me? I don't know. And she was like, well I actually promised that I'd spend the afternoon with my dad. [0:18:02.0]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But she was like don't worry, we'll talk at the wedding, that's fine. And then we didn't really end up talking very much at the wedding, which I don't know. I think—I mean we—(laughs). She's my oldest, you know she and Gerry are my oldest friends, I've known them since I was 14, and one of the dubious benefits of that is that she and I are completely incapable of sitting through a church service together without like giggling to each other the entire time. We're both like cradle Episcopalians, definitely raised you know that like there's a right way and a wrong thing to do things, and I think we both, just whenever we're together, we just cause a big ruckus. It didn't help that our school hymn was the hymn that they sang at the wedding. It makes sense, it's a great hymn, it's Jerusalem by William Blake, it was like awesome. [0:19:05.8]
THERAPIST: Even I know that one, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, very exciting. We both really love it but it was just like... it was just very—it was very silly and very fun and like a good way to catch up. (pause) I don't know, I um... you know, she and I have grown apart it seems like. It's one of those relationships where we'll grow back together and then grow apart again and then grow back together and then grow apart again, and that will be okay. It's good not to feel like here is another person that I failed, and it's a little sad that she didn't need me as much as I thought she did. But not that bad. (laughs) More of a really—
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, it sounds that way. How bad shape is your sister in? [0:20:24.5]
CLIENT: Really bad. She's... You know, she's not suicidal but it's just her daily functioning is really impaired.
THERAPIST: Can she do most of the day at work?
CLIENT: Sort of. She's terrified she's going to get fired because she procrastinates on everything that isn't easy for her. She works all the time, all the time, and I think part of that is the nature of the job and part of that is she doesn't know what boundaries to set and she doesn't know how to set the boundaries, and she doesn't know how to get the work that she needs to get done within the time that she can do it. So one day she'll just like kind of take off and the next day she'll work a 16-hour day and you know, she'll be up until four in the morning planning a trip that they're taking. But somebody else—a lot of it like she's inheriting other people's plans and having to follow through on ill thought out things. [0:21:41.3]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: A lot of it is that like (laughs) she's in—I mean, she fits the characteristics of bipolar too pretty well I think, and she's been diagnosed as severely ADHD, and she's not in treatment or doing anything for either of those.
THERAPIST: Maybe the same thing—by the way, you probably already know but those things are highly comorbid with bipolar disorder, very often have all sorts of executive function problems. So anyway, those are different things, but I guess really, where I'm going with this is probably clear, which is it doesn't sound like she's in as rough shape as you.
CLIENT: No, she's not.
THERAPIST: I mean, she's having trouble working, you're taking a year off. She is sort of anxious and disorganized, it's like real issues, I'm not trying to minimize that, but she's not suicidal. Is she hurting herself? [0:22:50.4]
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: She's not psychotic. She's bipolar too, probably not.
CLIENT: No, I don't think so, no. I would have heard it from somebody else.
THERAPIST: And you're the one who's like crying and catatonic.
CLIENT: (laughs nervously) Catatonic is not strictly catatonic. Just staring into space a lot.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I know that's another one of those words that has a real meaning.
THERAPIST: No, that's true, fair enough.
CLIENT: I looked it up. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Sure. And ah, and the two of you are—I mean she was totally overwhelming you and you hung in there a lot.
CLIENT: And I feel good about that.
THERAPIST: And both of your focuses on how you then couldn't be there for her, like nobody's even talking about... [0:23:56.9]
CLIENT: Well, she's talking about it. I'm just dismissing it.
THERAPIST: At least the way you describe what happens from the time you got picked up at the airport, is it was entirely about what was going on with her and your having to sort of meet her exactly where she was at, and having to work really hard and at considerable cost to yourself, eventually tapping out.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean, I had some time alone with my dad to talk and that was good. Mostly just to be like hey poppa, this is really, really bad, and you know talking. We talked about being emotionally exhausted more easily. He had a stroke about five or six years ago. It was a mild stroke but he has had problems with persistent small seizures and so he's on Lamictal and of course thinks that he can just change his medication dose without talking to his doctor about it. [0:25:05.8]
THERAPIST: Oh, that's really—(overlapping).
CLIENT: And shockingly enough, when he changes his dose of Lamictal, then he has a seizure. I'm like there is a connection here papa.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's a dangerous one to play around with too.
CLIENT: Yeah, I told him that. I was just like don't. Do not do that any more with any of your medicines. I think because he used to be on like—
THERAPIST: There's like a really dangerous rash that you can get.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think he's used to being on Prozac, which is like whatever.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: And so the other one that he was on, he was like, I really want to go off it but—and I was like talk to your psychiatrist.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Tell her that. And then it turned out she told him he could do whatever he wanted, so he was happy.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But you know, he's—
THERAPIST: So you've talked to him some.
CLIENT: So yeah, I talked to him about just like not having as much to give other people as I am used to, and he's in the same position of he just gets—he needs more time by himself now, he's more exhausted, and he also is somebody who everybody else thinks is an extrovert.
THERAPIST: Right. [0:26:15.1]
CLIENT: He had driven up—he was driving up to spend some time with Amanda and then drive up to Annapolis to watch my brother sail the next day, and then drive back on down, and the church secretary was like, I cannot imagine you sitting alone for eight hours in a car, what will you do? And he was like, those will be the best eight hours of my week. And it's like just he's very different I think. So that was good, but I mean that's what you were saying. Yeah, that is where the focus was and it's more because I push it there than Amanda doesn't want to go there. And it's more because as soon as we start saying well, I am the one who has the more pressing needs, I am the one who is the more sick, then Amanda starts beating herself up and I don't want that. So she feels bad about herself.
THERAPIST: But that's not—that's I guess her sometimes not being able to do it. It's all her not being able to be there for you really. I don't think she wants—[0:27:34.1]
CLIENT: She is sometimes. She just is not right now or was not on that day.
THERAPIST: No, you described that she was incredibly demanding, implicitly so.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But really quite demanding.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, she sets the emotional tone for the family and everybody else follows.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And you know, we do it because it's way more fun that way in the long run, because she's so much fun, and because she's the strongest character and because we love her. And I mean, I do it because I'm her little sister, that's the way I was—you know, that's just been my whole life. I just always have followed her lead. And even now, in the last several years when it's become clear to both of us that in some ways I'm the more emotionally immature person and she's kind of come to seek advice from me a lot more. Like yeah, still, I still follow her lead. [0:28:43.2]
I feel like I'm avoiding what you're trying to talk about, but I see what you're trying to talk about and I don't mean to be avoiding it.
THERAPIST: It sort of seems that way to me, but I'm also aware that there's a—you know, I don't know much about how your family works, so.
CLIENT: Well it's more like I see what you're trying to talk about, and then I start on a tangent that I think will get us there and then it really doesn't.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But I'm not sure whether I'm actually avoiding it or just not getting there.
THERAPIST: What I'm wondering is about the extent to which you felt terribly left out and angry.
CLIENT: I was angry afterwards, like when I left on Friday night, because what I really desperately, desperately needed on Friday was a really quiet day, a really, really quiet day, and it just was the opposite. Everything that happened was the opposite of what I needed. I wasn't angry at the time, because at the time, this was what Amanda really, really desperately needed to make it through the day and I could step up, so I did. And when I couldn't, I told her I couldn't. [0:30:35.8]
THERAPIST: But it didn't really account for the cost to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know how to do that. Like I don't, I don't—I don't know how to factor that into my judgment or my balance of things. You know? I mean in a sense I did in that I spent the rest of the weekend being like okay, I'm going to go take a nap and not look at the babies, and that was you know, that was fine. But yeah, you know they wanted to see me but they really wanted to see James, and so that's where I stood. Yeah, I can't—I see it through the lens of you know, this is what is being asked of me, this is what I would like to give, can I do it or not? And if I can do it, I do it, and if I can't, I don't, but in terms of like how much it takes out of me and what that means down the road and what that means for the rest of my weekend, I mean I try to plan for that and like you know, I took Saturday really slowly so that I would be able to go to the wedding. [0:32:26.0]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I kind of spent the day like storing up energy so that I could go out and like hang out with friends. But yeah, like I don't know how to make it—I don't know how to account for the cost to myself other than that. I'm not totally convinced that I should, other than that everybody else seems to agree that I should. (laughs) You know, and I test people and I think other people should for them, so logically it should also apply to me.
THERAPIST: Think about a tortoise and a hare I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right. (long pause) [0:33:36.0]
CLIENT: I mean also, when Amanda is actually angry, she lashes out pretty viciously, or she can, and that's very rare but it just destroys me, so the fear is also a factor.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. That was—she's gotten over that to a huge extent, at least in her relationship with me, but like when we were kids, I think she was just really, really angry, and I was a person that she was allowed to be angry at.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So she was really angry at me a lot of the time. She said once um, we were talking about there was one camping trip that we were on, it was a youth trip so there were lots of kids our own age. We were about the age of the kids at that point and she had been just really mean to me the whole trip, and because she's like the leader, like she's the leader wherever she goes, everybody looks up to her, everyone else had been really mean to me also. [0:34:59.5]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And at the end of the trip, I went up to her and I was like you've been really mean to me and everyone else is mean to me because you're being mean to me, and that's not okay. And she said that was the first time that she'd ever thought of myself as somebody that was separate from her. She was like that was really important, because that was the first time it ever occurred to me that I could hurt you by being mean to you. And so... which is interesting to me, because I always thought she meant to hurt me, but I don't think she did. I think she... I don't know.
THERAPIST: But I guess for whatever reasons, like again, my impression is that you must have felt really not taken into account. [0:36:15.2]
CLIENT: When?
THERAPIST: In the way that she treated you before that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That she hadn't even conceived of your having feelings about how she was towards you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, that was just kind of normal for me, so it didn't seem like she was different from anybody else.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess it sounds to me, like (inaudible) Friday with her.
CLIENT: Yes and no.
THERAPIST: I mean she's got this suicidally depressed sister flying into town, who has just decided to take a year off school because she's not handling it well and can't work, which you know means so much to her, is a thousand miles away from her husband, and like the afternoon is going to be about buying and decorating a cake and like manically or hypomanically kind of getting all worked up and dramatic about it. [0:37:37.2]
CLIENT: Well the thing is, I worked pretty hard to—I think she thought she was cheering me up that afternoon you know? I think she was working hard to cheer me up. But yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I can see how you both like collude.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: (overlapping).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I guess I'm imagining that maybe, probably, some of your reaction between the bouts with her and afterward, feeling like such a wreck, I mean I think it feels to you, it's just sort of like you're being sort of stretched so far out of shape in a way, by having to accommodate her in her mood, but I guess I'm wondering if it's also like having a reaction to what's being done to you, how you're being ignored in a way, I mean as much as you're sort of part of that process. [0:39:06.8]
CLIENT: I guess I feel like our family... everybody in our family is kind of on the verge of collapse a lot. My dad picks me up at the airport and he was so tired he couldn't drive. I don't know, he has a sleep disorder of some kind and I don't know why he thought it was okay to leave for this long trip without resting properly beforehand, but the fact of the matter was, like he wasn't—he needed me to you know? He was so tired he couldn't walk straight, so I was like, "Do you want me to drive?" And he was like, "Yeah, that would be good." I haven't driven a stick shift in two years and I'm like basically almost crying all the time, and then we got lost and both of us can't stand being lost. We didn't get lost for long but it was like I was having a really hard time in the car. But I guess the attitude of our family is the only way that we're all going to make it through this is if we all make it through together, and so everybody gives what they can all the time. I just feel like I'm way better at keeping it together than anybody else. Well maybe my dad is better at keeping it together now, but he also I think has less to deal with right now. (voice wavering) And I don't know how to turn that off you know, and not say no, we make it together, and so like right now my need is quieter than Amanda's, so we take care of Amanda, you know? I don't have somebody who's going to be calling me tomorrow yelling at me if there's no cake, so we take care of Amanda, like I'm officially on vacation, I don't have anything specific to do. [0:41:01.3]
I mean I see what you mean, but I just don't know how to get out of it, because I do believe that like yeah, we're in this together. It's kind of like what my dad used to say when we were doing our chores as kids. He was like, "No, we're a team, everybody does their part." That's really important to me. (sniffles) But it would be better for me not to push myself until I am the one with the most like... like I am the one who is hospitalized or critically injured or in some other way, like obviously needing more than everybody else. [0:42:06.1]
THERAPIST: Sure. (long pause) I do take your point about how much it has meant to you to be in it together in this way, with your family, and how much that has kind of buoyed you with stuff you've dealt with and kind of kept you—
CLIENT: Yeah. Although in balance, I always feel like I'm the one who is giving more or is keeping quiet more and doing more. [0:43:10.1]
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now. We'll talk more at 12:00.
END TRANSCRIPT
