TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: I'd rather not do that. I'd rather just put off the payment then to break up the (inaudible) that sort of makes it disjointed and you won't get the best out of it.
PATIENT: Well, great. I'm going to put that on tape! (Both laugh) Thank you. Oh gosh, it's been a tough week. I was rejected at the American Horticultural Society, so that I hoped would have paid for something.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Bummer, to say the least.
PATIENT: Yeah. Bummer. Bummer, to the say the least. I was really ... I was very upset when it happened.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me more about it? How it happened and?
PATIENT: Yeah. I can. Let's see ... I don't know if I told you exactly what ... if ... well it was after my initial conversation with the director of the ... I was ... didn't talk to him again. It was like I talked to his secretary or to the public relations woman. And in fact, first conversation I had with her ... Did I tell you this? That I was on ... last weekend she said that she was selecting artists for the project and the selection would be made Thursday and my portfolio wasn't there. She had heard about my portfolio but ... so I should get it there.
COUNSELOR: I didn't hear any ... no ... the last thing I heard was that he was checking with some publisher and you were concerned about copy (ph) to the publisher or not. [0:02:07]
PATIENT: Yeah. Well in fact ... there seemed to be some possibly a sort of area of responsibility overlap between the director and the woman who is the head of public relations. When she called me on that day - last week - the first thing she said was ... that's right, it was Monday, of course, last week that we met, so you didn't hear any of this. I was trying to figure, why didn't you hear this? So she said she was in charge of hiring artists and that was the first thing, the first words she said. So obviously, that sort of negated all of the conversation that I had with the director. And she said her room was filled with portfolios. It was obvious to me that I couldn't compete with ... if she was looking for somebody with a different set of criteria than what the director was looking for, and what he saw in my work I thought the director was specifically looking for - fine art interpretation of all of this material. And if she was looking for something else, obviously I couldn't compete with all of these other people who have specifically ... a specific expertise in botanical paintings or whatever. It's not what I do, and I couldn't even begin to compete or wouldn't even want to. But in any case, the only thing I thought that I could do was compete in terms of presenting an entire package. So I very quickly, within a day ... I was up until 4:00 in the morning as a matter of fact that night ... putting together some layouts for a book project using my works to show that I could not only do the paintings but how they would really look in a book project and the fact that I could provide the entire package. So I did that. And got it to the publisher the next day by messenger and didn't hear anything until the day before yesterday. And I called her but she was busy. She called me back and said that well, she's made a selection and they've decided to go for the two projects ... there were two projects for an botanical artist with a long background in botanical paintings for the documentation of the renovation and restoration of the gardens and they're still looking for a garden artist to go ... to do the paintings for the book, and that's what that book packager said. She said, "I know..." as she said, she told me ... my friend said that, "They're not going to go with you, probably. They're going to try to get some garden artist." He said that, "They're making a mistake. They should go with you, but they're not." So that's what they ... so that's exactly ... she said she was able to know exactly how they think. [0:05:07]
So that's what happened. And when I spoke to this woman at the Horticultural Society, she said ... public relations woman ... she said, "Yes indeed, we've decided to go with the botanical artist who has a long background" and so forth. So that was it. So I was ... because that was the only possibility of really any decent income at all, it was devastating. It was really devastating. Very upset about it. Very, very despondent about it, I mean, I was really crushed. Because I have a couple of illustration jobs that I'm doing now that are time consuming and not that well paying and there's nothing else. My representative doesn't have anything for me. There's nothing anywhere, really. And then the other book projects are just often in "Never, Never Land" someplace. That vintage car book is ... my representative is still pursuing the CEO of that publishing company to try to get him to sign the project, and (inaudible) everybody else in the company loves it but he has reservations. The English book publisher is still - as they put in the letter - "keen on my projects," and that's terrific. But there is ... and in fact, they said there was going to be a little ... a few pounds, 20 pounds each for the use of the paintings for the presentations that they're going to make, so that's ...
COUNSELOR: 20 pounds.
PATIENT: 20 pounds.
COUNSELOR: What's ...
PATIENT: That's about a thousand dollars, I guess, in total. It's really basically (inaudible) pays for my time and looking for these paintings really, nothing more. So anything else is just in the ... as always, in the far distant ...
COUNSELOR: What are you feeling now as you talk about it?
PATIENT: Well as I'm talking now, I ... yesterday and the day before, I spent a lot of time ... I don't feel that bad right now, because the day before yesterday I felt AWFUL, absolutely awful. I was nearly ready to throw myself in front of a taxicab, truly. I mean I was standing on the street corner after that, taking a walk after that, and just really ... things appeared bleak in the ... and there didn't seem to be any future. In fact, there really isn't any future. I mean really, in the near future, as far as getting any money. I mean everything that I've tried has not brought in money.
COUNSELOR: There's nothing you can see right now. Just ...
PATIENT: Well, I just sort of am coming up to that, I guess. I can ... but because of that, and because of talking to some of my friends, especially John Basilton (ph), my friend who I can really share these things with, I began to feel ... And what REALLY made me feel worse was the thought of telling Kathy about this because she predicted this was going to happen. She predicted EXACTLY what was going to happen, that nobody would be interested in my work for something like that. Who would hire me? Unknown for something that ... I mean, that's always the case. Who would hire me? An unknown? Even things that I'm known for I'm basically an unknown. It just ... I just ... and I'm not really putting myself down when I'm saying this. This is ... there's a lot of people out there. And there's ... a LOT. [0:08:45]
COUNSELOR: Incredibly competitive.
PATIENT: A vast amount of competition and dwindling amounts of work.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: I mean, it's dwindling not just a few percentage points off ... that 50, 70 percent of the work is gone.
COUNSELOR: So what happened? Did you tell her?
PATIENT: I told her. I didn't tell her that day. I waited for the next morning, yesterday morning to tell her as she was ... after Matt had left. I didn't want any scenes with Matt. And she seemed to be in a good mood, listening to the birds sing outside. And I said that I was rejected for the Horticultural Society (inaudible). And her reaction was not ... it was tense, but there was not that anger that I expected. It was a good moment that I had chosen. Any other moment would have been, could have been quite a scene, I think. And then she left in the morning without talking to me, then she called me when she got to work and had a very good and rational discussion about what she thinks I should be doing, you know, looking for markets where the work is. And ... it's easy to say that, but there's nobody among all of those people who have been fired from advertising agencies and various other places who really knows where the market is. I mean, that's the big thing. [0:10:18]
COUNSELOR: So how did you?
PATIENT: The whole thing is changing so much ...
COUNSELOR: How did you experience that? Was that a ... did you ... was it helpful?
PATIENT: No, I thanked her. It was helpful. It was good. It was helpful. I thanked her for being so reasonable and so forth. And I said yeah, that's what I was going to do all day yesterday, make calls and in fact that's what I did. Oh, the thing that I had told her also in the morning was that I had made a call to my old friend who is an art director at Macy's who was ... Macy's moved to New York five years ago and I put in a call to him saying, "Do you have any jobs out there in New York?" And he ... and she was (inaudible) said to me, "Is that the best hope that I have?" - you know, getting some job from an old friend who I haven't worked with in years. And isn't there anything better that you can ... any other better ideas?" [0:11:15]
So, in fact, I ... first thing yesterday morning, I did get a call from Mark Tagman (ph) in New York and ... a really good old friend of mine, very, very nice. I had worked with him for 20 years, basically, at Macy's on and off. And he said that they are coming up with a need for a new art director there within two weeks or two months or four months or something like that. And he said that he would mention my name to them and that he would call me when there was something more concrete. And ... so that was something. I'm willing to move to The Bronx, New York, really. I mean I ... there's really nothing tangible that I have. And then I had made dozens of calls yesterday, and one of them was trying to get in contact with the art director of University Publishing who I had been doing quite a bit of work for earlier this year who quit, and I got his number and the new place that he's working for, and he's working for a magazine publisher in Maine. And I called him. He seemed very happy there, and I said, "I'd like to work with you. Do you have any jobs there? Do you have a job as an art director or assistant art director?" And he said, "Wow! I've been thinking about using you for illustrations, but I hadn't thought about that. Let me think about it and get back to you next week." So that's a possibility. [0:12:48]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) I mean, I'm glad you're doing that, but I guess one of the big ... well, I think you're really hoping ...
PATIENT: Yes, I was hoping for it. And in fact Kathy's very disappointed with you, also. I mean, she's said, "Now what is Tom doing?" She ran into another woman on the street the other day whose husband is an architect who hadn't been getting work and now was getting more work, and this woman had said that going to marriage counseling again and this guy has admitted that he's immature and that's what Kathy wants me to do - admit that I'M immature. And so she's thinking that we should see somebody else, that you're not doing ... you're not getting me any work and once ... she wants me to ... let's see ... reconsider my ... timeframe, I guess, that I'm operating within more than any ... to put it in some sort of ... in my words rather than hers, because I need money now, because the last of my jobs is in sight, the last job that I'm working on is in sight. And all these ... I mean, all other projects are not going to produce any money short-term. [0:14:14]
COUNSELOR: Right. So where are you at with that ... what she said?
PATIENT: Well, I told her that I thought that what you're doing is terrific because it's ... I felt that the problems with me have not been specifically necessarily only work-related. I thought that they were self-esteem-related and that's what I've been working on all the time. And she said, "Well, it's time to stop that and do something that's more Bing, Bing, Bing." And ...
COUNSELOR: That gets right to the bottom line.
PATIENT: Gets to the bottom line. Yes, exactly. And she said, "What are you doing there? This guy's telling you how good you are all the time and so forth?"
COUNSELOR: You said, "All the time." (Chuckles)
PATIENT: Everything is the entire there's a lot of global condemnations or descriptions from Kathy about me. "Immature," "passive-aggressive" ... let's see, she had ... oh, there's so much that happened this week.
COUNSELOR: When did ... so when did that ... when did she make those condemnations?
PATIENT: Well that was on the telephone yesterday morning also.
COUNSELOR: That was on the telephone.
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. So ... that's about it. I mean, she's been feeling upset and ... about my career and she asked me about some of the other projects the other night and ... about the Springville (sp) thing, which I hadn't told her the rejections there, and you know, she's ... of course, she predicted all of these rejections and I said, "Well of course the English publisher is interested in a couple projects (inaudible)." She said, "Which ones?" And I said, "The jet book," and she nearly had a seizure. I'm not kidding. I thought she was having a seizure. Maybe it was a kind of seizure. She was just ... [0:16:04]
COUNSELOR: I'm not clear. What happened?
PATIENT: ... became incoherent. She started flailing about and making incoherent animal noises for maybe about a minute.
COUNSELOR: When you told her about ...
PATIENT: The air ... the English publisher's interest in the jet book.
COUNSELOR: And she's not supportive of that. She thinks that's a real digression?
PATIENT: She thinks it's a ... has destroyed my life, destroyed my life working on that, spending years that I've spent working on.
COUNSELOR: So ... there's one thing I'm not clear ... you were devastated two days ago, but you're feeling better now.
PATIENT: I'm feeling stronger now.
COUNSELOR: Stronger now.
PATIENT: I mean, I had a real hour-long conversation for ... more with John Basilton (sp) for ... yesterday and the day before, so he was very supportive, very helpful and he finds himself in kind of a similar position and while he wasn't able to offer anything other than be a sounding board, he's so terrific. So I ... he's really the only person I can talk to about it like that. I tried talking to (inaudible) some of my friends who I was working with on the jet project that I've known just as long, we were roommates, all roommates at Ryder years ago, and just really no emotional support from them. He said, "Well, you guys are looking like wealthy people. Your son's going to private school. Cut back your lifestyle." Cutting back my lifestyle is a good idea.
COUNSELOR: But it's not what you were really looking for from him. [0:17:48]
PATIENT: But it's not an idea that can be really accomplished in any way other than leaving Chicago. It can't be accomplished still living here. And that might happen. [Simon Zimmerman](sp) my friend who now works at that magazine publishing place ... that's in Portland, Maine. And that would have to be a commute if I ... or I would have to live there. I've told Kathy maybe Matt and I should live in Maine. And then he wouldn't have to ... then we wouldn't have to pay for private school anymore. It would be a big saving.
COUNSELOR: And she said, what?
PATIENT: She said, "What? You're saying we should separate?" I said, "Well, this is a saving that we're talking about. We could visit on the weekends or whatever."
COUNSELOR: She could go with you. Maybe that as well.
PATIENT: Or that's what she suggested. I mean I'm not feeling very close to Kathy these days, I must admit.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like in this moment where you really sustained this loss that she was sort of "I told you so" and critical.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, "I told you so" and critical, but she wasn't ... didn't attack me, which was very much ... I was so appreciative of. When I was talking to John Basilton (sp) the day before, I was more worried about what Kathy's reaction was going to be than anything else. And John suggested that he come over to our house that night and just sort of put himself between her and me.
COUNSELOR: Take a grenade for you.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's right. Fall on the grenade, yeah.
COUNSELOR: So "I told you so" and being critical as opposed to what? What would have been an attack if that were not an attack? What are you comparing it to?
PATIENT: Well it was some of the "I told you so," but it was more positive saying, "You have to do something and call people and get ideas about computer courses and what do you think?" I've been studying this CD ROM business that looks like it's going to be, at least in a two or three year period of time, a big phenomenon in publishing and in computers. And I've been thinking ... but you take enough courses to be able to be a viable contender in CD ROM, it takes a year or two to do that, and by that time, CD ROMs are dead. They've gone on to something else. I mean there's NO way that other than personal contacts that you can really (inaudible). I mean if it weren't for the fact that I had known, or had lunch with that girl at University Publishing ... I found it so difficult to do some months ago, I wouldn't have been able to call University. And I called her ... and get the telephone number where Simon was. I mean that ... [0:21:02]
COUNSELOR: Can't say enough for that.
PATIENT: That was critical. Critical. And this was what I've never done before, made a real effort to meet people like that and to really cultivate people like that. And if it weren't for you, I wouldn't have done it. I know that I wouldn't have done it. So if ... so Kathy had said that I should find somebody else or whatever, I think it has to be put in that context of my REAL problem. I KNOW what my problem is, and the problem is that I don't develop these contacts and cultivate them and so forth.
COUNSELOR: And that's all related to how you see yourself.
PATIENT: And that's all related to how I see myself. And making a decision as to what's going to be the next big thing is what millions of people are wandering around trying to do. Nobody knows how to do it. And in fact no company knows how to do it. They're all running around. Nobody knows what's going to happen or whether any of these things are really going to happen. Everybody's predicting that CD ROMs are going to be big, but ... [0:22:13]
COUNSELOR: They're not so sure.
PATIENT: But there's a lot of ignoramuses speaking knowledgably about all of this stuff and they know nothing. I mean like in Kathy's company, they're talking about developing videodiscs for science textbooks. And the terminology that these people use at her company - it's wrong. I mean these videodiscs are not a current up-and-coming medium for computers. I mean they don't even know the terms of what they're talking about, they don't know anything about it, and yet they have meetings talking about developing things and so forth. There's vast amounts of ignorance and vast amounts of verbiage about all of this stuff and companies going under, merging, everything. You know, there's such chaos in the entire communications field, publishing and so forth, that for me to make a decision about what's going to be the big thing in the next ... for the next ten years is fanciful, I think.
COUNSELOR: It's a hard call. Can I ask you a question? I'm sort of curious about what it was like for you to actually come here with that news about rejection.
PATIENT: I mean, I've really gotten over the rejection, and I didn't ... I didn't ... I hadn't really given it any thought at all. Zero. Zero thought. I mean, I could have ... now that you mention it, I could sort of look at it and say that, you know, you have been encouraging me to pursue these various projects over the past, and I failed in these to get money in these projects. So I could blame you, I guess. I mean that's a possibility. But as I ... but I don't see it that way because these projects were not only these projects. They were other things for me to show within other context. They can be shown within the context of CD ROMs, my ability to put images and words together, my ability to whatever - you know, to be able to ... to have something other than an illustration portfolio. I mean there's still a whole bunch of different directions I could go in. I mean the most useful are having contacts, like talking to Mark Tagman (sp) in New York or Simon Zimmerman (sp) in Maine. Those are the most useful things. There's a real personal connection there, and that makes all the difference. But even so, I've got good reactions to my work. But of course, as Kathy had said the other day, and this is ... there's a lot of truth in that, what she said is that people look at my work and tell me it's great and I believe them and I do all of this work on spec and they're just making use of me. I'm just gullible. I believe them, she said. And from some viewpoint that's right, but it's ... in fact I do believe them. I do believe when they say, "Oh this will be ... I just love this book. Just work it up and give us a proposal. Oh this is terrific. I think we're going to publish this book." And then they look at it and eight weeks later they say, "No, sorry, thank you." And that's about it. Without even ... any sort of a real reason. Like for the war book, there was no reason, it was, "Oh, there are too many war books out" or is it their (inaudible) that maybe there's not enough war ... it's like, the answer changed within the same paragraph. No reason, really, whatever. You don't really know. I mean they have their own reasons in the publishing (inaudible) but there's no ... You know, it's some sort of marketing concern that they're aware of and it probably has to do with things that I couldn't change within that project as it stands, one of them being my name. You know, my name is not known. That's a big one. [0:26:35]
COUNSELOR: Right. Let me ask you another question. If I were ask you to imagine what I might be thinking about you and your abilities, your work abilities, what would you think?
PATIENT: Oh I would think ... I mean, I would think that it would probably pretty much what I think. I think that my work abilities are great. I think that having a response to them from ... somebody who can pay me some money is something else again.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: I mean that's ... it's like ... I don't know, Eugene Atget. He photographed scenes of Paris for 40 years and nobody ... nobody saw his pictures until Bernice Abbott found his negatives in the garbage or something in the 1930s.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) ... and you wouldn't be concerned that I would think less of you.
PATIENT: I don't know, I just think that, I don't think so. I mean I feel that you're ... I feel that you're supportive and understanding. And I guess maybe that's what Kathy's concern is, that you're too supportive and understanding. And in fact I read an article on psychologists in Men's Health magazine the other day and it said if you're going to a psychologist who is too supportive and understanding, run the other way. You should go to somebody who tells you you're a jerk and do one, two, three things to solve your problems. So ... I mean, I didn't think ... I thought for my specific needs, that's not correct. I said, "This article is not speaking to me at this point." [0:28:26]
COUNSELOR: How come?
PATIENT: Because I felt that the marriage counselor we had gone to before was in some sense kind of like that. Not really, she was supportive also, more of a listener than an active participant, but she was some sort of ... she did have some active suggestions. And some ... and a marriage counselor who we had seen previous to that some time ago seemed to be more confrontational and, you know, quite critical of me - that I should, you know, that I should - after meeting with us two times, her solution was that I should get a job. And that was it.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Kathy's suffering, I should get a job. And Kathy wouldn't suffer any more. Then I could suffer some more.
COUNSELOR: It was your fault.
PATIENT: It was my fault, yeah. So ... but I know that my problems are not just Kathy-related and they're not just work-related, even though those things are big realties. The biggest reality is that ... is my perception of how I can ... of what I am.
COUNSELOR: The reason why I asked you those two questions is sometimes I have a sense that ... I think over the ... lately in particular, that you're trying to convey to me ... in a way you're concerned that I might be seeing you as incompetent in some way and that you're trying to convey to me that, "Look, I'm producing. I can do these things." And so I had that concern that ...
PATIENT: No ...
COUNSELOR: ... that deep down that that was maybe an implicit concern of yours. [0:30:19]
PATIENT: It may be implicit. When I was talking to my friend John Basilton about this job of ... last week, when I realized that there's going to be some decision made on the Horticultural Society artist, my original reaction was to go into the drawing room and make some more paintings. Even though I had made more drawings, I had eight drawings and that was enough to really show, two more was not going to make any more ... any difference. And it would be just a big time waster because what I really wanted to do was to do some layouts to show how these drawings could work within a book project that I could design. He said what I'm always trying to do is ... is just spin my wheels working as if working will actually get me work. Working won't get me work.
COUNSELOR:  In and of itself.
PATIENT:  In and of itself.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: It's something else that gets people work. I mean I ... people who are directors of companies and so forth, they don't do any work, any actual work. They ... what they do is ... relate, I think. And managers of companies, they make decisions and so forth, mostly relating to other people. That's what their work is. It's like the director of this Horticultural Society. I mean he does work in the sense of making decisions and looking at things and so forth, but his relating to people is ...
COUNSELOR: The critical feature. [0:32:02]
PATIENT: Mmm hmm.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. See the reason why ... one of the things that made me think about this more is when we talked, I think a couple of weeks ago about this, and you were very excited because you had just met with them finally.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And you seemed pretty confident to me on the phone. And yet at the same time, you also told me about this ... that you needed to go to this publisher, the publisher they were going to use, and that from your perspective, they probably weren't going to be positive about your work. They were probably going to look for something different. And so it made me think, you know, on the one hand you're very positive and you're like, "This is great. I had this great contact with this director." But then the other hand is this wide window here of possibility that you could get rejected because of this publisher.
PATIENT: I didn't see it as that wide of a window, really.
COUNSELOR: I guess I saw it and ...
PATIENT: I think everybody else saw it, but I didn't see it. I mean I really didn't ... I really ...
COUNSELOR: And that wasn't to take anything away from this ... your perception of having this good contact with ... it just seemed like there was this great possibility.
PATIENT: Yes. I think everybody else saw that there was a big possibility of my being rejected, but I didn't see it. I really thought that what I had done was so ... so to the point and so ... so right. And Kathy, you know Kathy said ...
COUNSELOR: It probably was. But ...
PATIENT: Kathy's objection was that it was in black-and-white, not in color. She said that they probably really rejected it because it was in black-and-white. She said, "The only people who like black-and-white are you and your aesthetic friends."
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) I mean, I don't know if it just comes down to the color of the photography. [0:34:02]
PATIENT: You know it's like those people in her company talking about CD ROMs. They talk about all these ... they're so verbal and so half-informed.
COUNSELOR: When I told you that, did you remember what you felt?
PATIENT: That ... told me what? That you were concerned my perception of you or that?
COUNSELOR: No, just ...
PATIENT: Or how ...
COUNSELOR: That window.
PATIENT: That you saw that window. I was surprised that you saw a big window, and I know that that window was what ... was immediately what, you know, my friend who's the head of that book packaging company saw too. You know, I guess that was the result of ... you saw that as a result of what she had said, and I told you about that. The enthusiasm and ... you know, I'm a little ... I'm surprised. I'm surprised that my take on it wasn't ... didn't include the possibility of rejection based upon that. It was just based ... I was just pursuing what I thought was ... was a better possibility than it was. And I think that ... you know, I'm surprised that you saw that big possibility of ... that big hurdle, that big obstacle, because I didn't see it as that big of an obstacle. I mean, because there's a lot of obstacles. One of them is that nobody knows me. I mean that's a big obstacle.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I did ... I don't know. I mean, I saw it as a ... as a legitimate possibility. And I guess I ... the reason why that ... another reason why I called (inaudible) so salient to me is that I felt like I conveyed that to you. And I wasn't as excited as you were about it. And then I heard that it was like ... oh.
PATIENT: That's right. Yeah. I had forgotten totally about that call, but now that you say, that of course was your reaction to it. And you said something. I guess I said, "Well there's one obstacle. It just has to be shown to the ..." And you said, "That's a big obstacle." [0:36:16]
COUNSELOR: And then when I got off the phone (inaudible), "You know, I didn't share in his enthusiasm. I hope he ..."
PATIENT: But you're right. That's exactly what you said and you saw it more realistically. And that sort of, in a way, backs up Kathy's assessment that I'm so gullible about these things. I just see the possibilities and not the reality of the workplace, perhaps.
COUNSELOR: What are you saying to yourself right now? Can you just freeze-frame and think about it?
PATIENT: Well you know, there's ... let's see ... freeze-frame is that Kathy's right always from the perspective of the people who purchase things. From the art buyers, editors and so forth, of publishing companies and so forth. She's never really been wrong.
COUNSELOR: And what are you saying about yourself?
PATIENT: From my perspective, what I've done is ... is right, and to continue doing what I'm ... and to continue just doing. I mean there's a difference ... let's see ... any of these projects, let's say, the jet project, any of them ... none of them would really be ... initiated by a person who was ... thinking about a project that in terms of ... totally in terms of market research and acceptability by a large market and so forth. I know and I've said that these projects are not mainstream. But I think the quality is mainstream. [0:38:16]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: If I were thinking of mainstream projects, I would be painting pictures of, you know, bottles of salad dressing or doing illustrations of bottles of salad dressing. Which basically is what I did for Macy's for 20 years, you know, layouts for the catalogue. Worked there for 10 years then spent another 10 years doing freelance layouts for them. That industry died. You know, that basically doesn't exist anymore, so ... that's 20 years of work that I've tried to roll over and restructure into something else, working with words and pictures in what I'm doing now. What I've been doing for the past ... with this stuff and the stuff before it has ... has had ... has not been market ... has ... what am I saying ... has been a result of my personal enthusiasms, and with the feeling that I'm going to be able to sell these enthusiasms to somebody else by the intrinsic quality.
COUNSELOR:  By your own, yeah.
PATIENT: In a reduced ... in a world of reduced possibilities, it's not happening. Twenty years ago, it might have happened. But 20 years ago, I wasn't focused on doing any of that stuff.
COUNSELOR: Any awareness of what you're feeling now?
PATIENT: I mean, I'm saying this intellectually, but I don't really ... I'm still focused on my enthusiasms and so forth.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, see, I have that same experience. There's almost ...
PATIENT: I'm like saying, "Well, so what?" You know, if I can't do this, sort of ... life is meaningless. But life is meaningless if I can't pay the rent also. [0:40:17]
COUNSELOR: I didn't follow that.
PATIENT: I mean if I can't do my own creative work ...
COUNSELOR: Then ... I see what you're saying. Okay. See, I had a similar sense that ... see I'm trying to ... my suspicion is that your self-critical voice, your emotional self-critical voice is operating here, and that's why I asked you to freeze-frame. But then what I hear, it does sound intellectual, it sounds ... you're justifying your actions, justifying your enthusiasms, justifying how you've operated in terms of pursuing that. And I don't know if I'm digging for something ... or putting something there that isn't there, but I had a similar sense that there's something ... maybe something else there, that this seems very intellectual to me.
PATIENT: Well I think maybe the entire ...
COUNSELOR: And that you're struggling in some way to maintain the intellectual front. Does that make sense to you?
PATIENT: Well I think the entire question is perhaps posed ... should be posed or done in a different way. I mean I think that what we're saying is that ... I have ... given the realities of the world, I've been approaching my career kind of the way a poor kid from the Bronx would approach sports, hoping to be a big basketball star and having nothing else to fall back on and then having to work in a ... something, you know, manual labor, menial labor or something, if he didn't get a job playing in a big league basketball team. So I'm ... and that's in a sense an unrealistic hope. Most people don't get to play for major sports teams and get millions of dollars. [0:42:42]
COUNSELOR: So you're saying you're really unrealistic.
PATIENT: The essence of what I've been trying to do is in some sense unrealistic, I think. I mean after years of working at what I considered junk and not doing any real substantial work of my own other than doing some illustration work that was good, but never ... but was always so ... so marginal in terms of interest that it didn't really sustain itself. The work that ... all of the work that I've done has not been market-oriented or oriented towards somebody's needs. It's been oriented towards my needs and the fantasy that someday I would strike it rich just by spinning my wheels, by working some more, by going into the drawing room and making some more prints. And that's really the reality of it. I think John Basilton's analysis of it was right. It wasn't supportive emotionally, but I think he ... what he said was right.
COUNSELOR: Which is ...
PATIENT: Which is that all this work is not going to make me a success. And Kathy said that yesterday, exactly that, that she thinks that I'm trying to ... trying to become, you know, successful on one of these projects and ... but not building sort of a groundwork of starting out doing ... you know, getting into a place and building contacts and so forth. Her viewpoint is that I should always have been more practical, with whatever work I'm doing. [0:44:29]
COUNSELOR: So if we were to distill this into a single sentence - "I am unrealistic, I am ..." what? How would you?
PATIENT: As Kathy would say, and I'm condemning myself with this, but her words are ... are the words we're talking about: immature and unrealistic and gullible.
COUNSELOR: Okay, can you say that?
PATIENT: I can't ... I don't believe it, but there's ... but there's a lot of truth in it.
COUNSELOR: Can you say, "I'm ..." what was it? "I'm unrealistic."
PATIENT: Unrealistic.
COUNSELOR: ... immature ...
PATIENT: And gullible.
COUNSELOR: Can you sit with those for a sec? What?
PATIENT: I believe that that's true. And then I ... but ... there's a reality that's even more powerful in me that's ... and then ... and then I mean this need for me to create something is a need for me ... is the only way that I can really justify my existence. I mean, the need for me to create artwork or whatever is just ... has brought so much pain to everyone, has brought so much pain to me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Vast amounts of pain, constant pain. And what has it produced in terms of actual income? The only work that I get is, you know, work that somebody else has initiated - the editors and so forth and marketing people so forth initiate projects and sometimes my style corresponds to what they need, but nobody ever really needs my style, or my thinking. I think maybe ... my new hope now, my new hope is that in Europe they'll need it because [I'm at the end of my] (ph) ... it's my new dream because that's my work, my thinking has always been more oriented towards that and that's what ... you know, that's what my ... this is what Jessica (ph) the book packager is telling me, "Well, Don (ph) your work is always ... it's all intellectual that it's more oriented towards Europe than America." [0:46:57]
COUNSELOR: I have two experiences of you right now. I guess they're similar. One is that you're sort of fighting not to look at yourself as gullible and immature and that you're being really elusive.
PATIENT: I AM being elusive. Yeah. It's like I'm in a sense ... if a procrastinator puts things off to avoid them, just forget about them, that's what I'm sort of doing. Avoiding. Avoiding things. Avoiding ... confronting that. To confront that reality is ... that the marketplace wants something else other than what I do sort of negates everything that I've done. I mean it can, let's say, be ...
COUNSELOR: But I'm talking about right now, being elusive. I'm talking about ... you know, in a way, I'm trying to get you to focus on what's going on for you. [0:48:07]
PATIENT: Well to ...
COUNSELOR: And I feel like just when you're right about there at the feeling, you kind of slip away from me.
PATIENT: Well it's just that for me to admit that emotionally is to ... be such a condemnation of myself that I can't accept it. And any sort of positive things that I've been trying to build about myself would be really in jeopardy to admit that.
COUNSELOR: So the risk is ...
PATIENT: It's really ... you know, it's kind of a matter of definitions, isn't it? I mean ... if I'm a passive-aggressive as Kathy says, and if passive-aggression is manifested in everything I do, her comment, which I hadn't mentioned before, that I had not mentioned a mole on her neck that she thought was becoming cancerous, a melanoma, was a result of my passive-aggression against her. I think there's a possibility of reading too much into it, that not everything that I do is a result of passive-aggression, not a result of immaturity, not a result of ... whatever else I said that I was.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Some of it is a result of I really love this stuff. I really think there's something there. And I think that there's ... it's a matter of finding the ... a match for myself and ...
COUNSELOR: So what are ... stepping back right now ... what are you doing right now? What are you saying to me? What are you doing? [0:50:06]
PATIENT: I mean, there's some elements of truth in some of this, some elements of truth. And these are things that I guess we've never really talked about before, about this ... about this ... I mean, we've been talking about things that are ... were really related to ... to allowing me to function, and to do the work that I thought that I should be doing. Now we're talking about whether my perception of this work that I should be doing was even correct to begin with. And was it ... and was it based upon ... some psychological problem rather than a ... addressing the needs of making a living. And I think it might be based upon some psychological problem if ... and maybe I have to put in parentheses, maybe all creativity is based upon some sort of psychological problem. And the psychological problem exists. In some sense it's ... I think, trying to relive my life, relive my childhood, relive ... trying to get it right this time.
COUNSELOR: Well I don't want to take anything away from what you're saying right now, because I think that the grand scheme perspective, but I want to go back to the actual transaction that we're having where there was a resistance apparently to actually staying with the notion of being gullible and immature and unrealistic. And you said something about being in a condemnation. [0:52:16]
PATIENT: Well those are ...
COUNSELOR: Something that fought there, the quality, final quality to it.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well it is. I mean it's ... those are words that are global, those are words that are ... that ... they're not positive, that negate anything positive about what I've been doing, so those are words of denunciation and condemnation rather than ... rather than encouragement or support. But sometimes you have to use words like that to describe some of what's happening. I mean you could say sometimes I'm unrealistic, often I'm immature or I tend to be gullible. I mean that might be ... when around people who are praising my work, let's say. Those things may be true. And I cannot sort of ascertain how much of that is true and how much of that is affecting my ... what I select to show of my work, who I select to contact, and so forth. I just don't know whether I have made decisions that are so far off the mark that I can never really sell my work to anybody other than some publishing company that needs some ... some gullible goofball who will spend an entire life doing something and then ... you know, and then they'll pay $100 for it or something. I mean that's ... that is in fact what usually happens to a lot of these enthusiasts. You know, if you're going to do great drawings of some topic like vintage cars for an automobile magazine and get paid $100 for an article, it's nothing. You can't live on that. It's just an enthusiasm. It's a hobby, as Kathy was saying years ago, these are hobbies that rich men, rich retired men give. [0:54:48]
COUNSELOR: I think we're really ... this all seems very critical to me. I also realize we're well over, so I want to relieve (ph) it this way, that I'd like to really think about and listen to the tape, particularly the last 15, 20 minutes or so ... kind of important. I'd like to pick up on it unless something really pressing emerges, but at our next session I'd like to pick up on those because it's important to me.
PATIENT: Well I think it is important. I think it is important. As I said, we've ... we haven't really talked about my work in this way. We've just sort of accepted it as being something I had to do and then all I need to get it done.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but you know I think how you see yourself and how you fear to see yourself has a lot of implications for how you perceive the world and perceive your worth and your role in the world and that's why it all ties together.
PATIENT: Well yes, I don't see myself as really fitting into the world, I guess, do I? So I do sort of separate sort of work, that has to ...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's one aspect of it. I want to flesh it out more.
PATIENT: I have those things for ... with me for the biology thing. Do you want to take a look at them? For the Horticultural ...
COUNSELOR: Oh, sure.
PATIENT: Because what I was doing is going off to a studio that I wanted to go to for ... design studio ... for years. Not for years, but for months, that does design for institutions. Design brochures and stuff for the American Horticulturist Society.  Here are some of the pages that I had designed using my paintings for the American Horticulturist Society.
END TRANSCRIPT
