Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: I brought my checkbook back out. I'm telling you what happened. And today's the 12th? 11th?
THERAPIST: Eleventh, I think. Yes because I was suppose to take this report.
CLIENT: There you go. Then, can I ask you for something? Ms. [inaudible], the [inaudible at 00:00:55] is submitting the last six claims and she said everything after April 10th is my responsibility and I didn't make a copy of the claim sheet that I gave her. And so I don't know how many extra ones remain unpaid for. Can I ask you to look up what we have, what I...
THERAPIST: Sure, do you want me to do that right now?
CLIENT: No, I don't care. But whenever you'll be free.
THERAPIST: I can do it now. It'll take a few minutes.
CLIENT: Okay, that'll be great. Thank you. I'm sure I...
THERAPIST: It's...
CLIENT: I think three or four sessions.
THERAPIST: I mean this is going to take me all of two minutes.
CLIENT: Okay, good. I'm thinking a lot longer.
THERAPIST: Okay, well then I'm glad to do this for you.
CLIENT: Actually I'll just - do you prefer to write me a bill first or should I just write you a check?
THERAPIST: They'll ask for your check actually. Okay. So what I'm looking for is all the appointments after April 1st? [00:02:12]
CLIENT: April 10th.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, April 10th. Okay.
CLIENT: I have it for April 1st.
THERAPIST: Okay. Let's see, so, all right, so you - this is going to require a little math.
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: No, no. All right so that's for June, so June is all set. And then the premium - I guess it's not hard for me to figure out what appointments were after April 10th. What I have to figure out is when I started, what I started billing you for. So you had written me one check for $150, another check for $1200, so $1200 would've been the previous 12 appointments before June 1st. Well I'll tell you that May, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, ...
CLIENT: I think that was just all of May.
THERAPIST: 11, 12. Yes, so that's all of May. And you wrote me another check for $150, maybe that was co-pay.
CLIENT: That was co-pay.
THERAPIST: So that would've been...
CLIENT: That was I think co-pay before I started doing the recording. I think that was, yes, I think that was my [inaudible at 00:04:09].
THERAPIST: So we're looking for between May 10th - after April 10th and before May 2nd?
CLIENT: I think so, yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, that 19 to 25 and 26 and the 30th. So that's one, two, three, four.
CLIENT: So that's $400?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Is that all you needed to know?
CLIENT: Yes. So then I'll pay you for July out of pocket and then after that...
THERAPIST: You start with a new product.
CLIENT: ...I'm on insurance again. [inaudible at 00:04:53]. Journey of fun and discovery.
THERAPIST: Well that should be pretty easy for you so if it's - it's Blue Cross?
CLIENT: Yes, you never really know anything whether the insurance is going to give me. Sometimes they are. I just figure it's safer to assume that it's going to suck, than it's going to be easy.
THERAPIST: I generally take that view of insurance. I'm pretty optimistic about this one. I'm back in Blue Cross' network, which I'm in until the end of December I think. I mean I'll decide to leave then I think. And so when we're recording you don't have to pay a co-pay and if I'm in-networked you're unlikely to have a deductible but you might.
CLIENT: I think I'm still going to have a deductible. I think a PPO there's a deductible before you get any treatment at all even in-network. But that's not a big deal or it's [inaudible at 00:05:52]. Yes. Sorry. I don't know. I had it and I'm switching to an IUD and I had that done yesterday, so apparently you only feel like crap, apparently it's only super painful for 20 percent to 10 percent of women and apparently I'm in that 20 percent to 10 percent of women so, oh well.
THERAPIST: Very painful? [00:06:22]
CLIENT: I mean it's not so bad right now. It's just not great and it should go away soon. I always forget that physical pain does actually affects my mood. I don't know why but it's not just that it makes me cranky or whatever. It makes all of the mind games that make me feel bad about myself start acting up more and I don't know why that is. So I think you're right about what we were talking about on Monday. I mean, clearly you're right. And I don't know whether you would go so far as to say this but to me it seems like the trend is that most of the coping mechanisms that I have to deal with this aren't actually serving me well, I think. They just make things worse. And I can deal with knowing that. I just don't know how to untangle myself from them, they're so automatic. I mean right now I don't know how to make myself - just it's so fast for me to - I don't even know how to believe that I shouldn't be trying to manage my emotions in the way that I feel like I need to. [00:08:30]
I've been talking to James about it. He's been good. But I just feel worse about myself when I do. If I tell people how I'm feeling I just feel worse about myself afterwards when I might feel - I don't know. I just feel like I'm a burden or...
THERAPIST: I do appreciate that it isn't simple that way. That if it was as simple as, even if it's difficult in the low range you tell somebody some upsetting thing about how you feel, you kind of bite your nails to see if they're going to collapse. They don't, it feels good you got it off your chest. You feel better. You see that they're okay and it's a win. I understand... [00:10:14]
CLIENT: That would be nice.
THERAPIST: That would be nice but that's not how it is. It sounds more like your reaction to that is to feel very terrible about yourself afterwards.
CLIENT: Often. In part you can tell how the other person reacts but in part it depends on whether I'm just - in part it depends on what kind of sad I am I guess. Sometimes I'm just sad, sometimes I'm sad and I hate myself. Yes, I don't know how that gets - the way that I feel like I'm okay, the way that I support my self esteem or whatever is that I do things, you know, I function. I don't know how to be if I'm not functioning. So I'm in the same trap with my job now that I have been with my work which is I'm afraid to do my work because I can't handle criticism right now. But I have to do my work because I feel terrible about myself when I don't. [00:12:21]
THERAPIST: I think one thing that I hear when you say you don't know what else to do is that you can't bear how you feel. And I think unconsciously that when you are sort of presenting somebody such as the old [inaudible at 00:14:01] people in your life with a what do I do question, some of what you want is help feeling better or more accurately probably, bearing how badly you feel. And then when we don't help with that, I think it becomes [inaudible at 00:15:02] overwhelming.
CLIENT: Yes, yes. I mean I basically stopped essentially absolute to stop trying to make things better for me because it just makes things so much worse because then I feel like, he's just well I don't know what to do for you and I feel like now it's on me to find out what he can do to help me and I don't know what he can do to help me. And so I feel like I'm making things worse for him and, yes, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well you've got more pain than you can bear. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: Yes and - yes. I don't know how to deal with this being two years, a year and a half I guess, but just so long. Everybody's trying so hard to help me and nobody's helping me. And I think the duration but it doesn't - everyone's so worried I'm going to kill myself. Well you know a lot of times it's better not to ask. I'm just really tired of this. And, you know, it also does not make it better when people just forget and maybe I still feel as bad as the last time they talked to me which was six months ago. [00:18:16]
When I was in I guess fifth grade, fourth grade, sixth grade, sometime around there I got - my toe nail got ripped off in a door, did I tell you about that? Yes, okay. Telling it feels better. And that was the worst pain that I've ever felt in my life. And, yes, it was just completely unbearable but I kept going. And this is the same thing. I just keep going. I don't know how I'm still alive. I don't know how - nothing touches it. I mean it's not like a wound like that where it starts off really intolerably bad and then it goes downhill and you know it's just going to keep going downhill. Sometimes it doesn't hurt as much and sometimes it doesn't hurt at all but I never know when it's going to come back and it will always rocket back up there and I can't make that stop. [00:20:22]
So now I'm thinking that okay I need to - clearly the things I'm trying to manage it with are not working and so I need to pull back from those but that's really scary. I don't even know how to begin. And then what am I going to do? I mean, it's not like physical pain where eventually you just pass out. You know I have a lot of alcoholics in my family. My generation drank with [inaudible at 00:23:04] but the generation above that. And we can all be at serious risk for being [inaudible at 00:23:12] if she's not already. But that's something I can understand. [00:23:21]
THERAPIST: Is it?
CLIENT: Seems like yet another thing that would turn out to be much worse than - I was just thinking the only thing I was afraid of going into the IUD was that the doctor would give me grief about the scars on my butt. Yes, it's probably going to hurt; oh well, whatever. But he was fixated on the other one. Probably didn't say anything. Yes, I assume that he looked at my med list beforehand. Probably was like okay, somebody's dealing with this. I don't need to. [00:24:52]
I don't see a way for me to get better. I don't know who I would be any more. I worry about money a lot. I can't afford not to work this year. James says it would be okay if we had to go into debt but I don't want to. I mean we're already in debt; I've got student loans. But I just - I am just so useless. [00:26:38]
THERAPIST: Yes, I would imagine you feel pretty completely immersed in this now.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes. I was, met up for tea with a friend who's in my department. Hadn't been on campus for a while because he lives far out and has kids and has been traveling and stuff. But he's a good friend. He had I think really been hoping that I would be better and I was just like yes, no, I don't think I'm doing any better. And he asked so what eating you, what's behind this? What is making this happen? I'm just like I don't know. I have no idea, no idea. I have theories; I'm not saying they're wrong but some of them have turned out to be wrong. [00:28:41]
And I just don't - I still buy into that way of thinking which is it's not real. It shouldn't stop me from doing what I need to do. It shouldn't have this control over me. It was life altering (ph). I can't get through this.
THERAPIST: I guess I could imagine you feel like you're being kind of destructive to me in feeling like this is impossible or you're impossible in some way. [00:30:59]
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, I need something to be optimistic so I figure I'll go with that. Yes, I don't - this helps some but I don't feel like I'm going anywhere with it. And I'd definitely put that on my shelf rather than on you.
THERAPIST: How do I seem optimistic?
CLIENT: Well you keep showing up. I asked you a while ago if you had hopes that I could get better and you said you bet. So you haven't said anything different since and you haven't said well maybe we should do something totally different, which to me is always a sign of this really isn't working. I don't know what else to do. I don't write too much about this hurting because it slows you down. When it gets too much for you, you'll quit. Yes, I mean you have an option to be psychologist to me, and actually [inaudible at 00:33:21]. He's having a great time. I'm easy, though; I'm nice to you. But I - I don't know. I guess what I'm more worried about is that I worry so much about the impact of my being ill on my other relationships that I worry that I kind of bring all of my relationships here, or I'm distancing myself from everybody else because I feel like you can take it, if that makes sense. I don't think that's a good thing.
THERAPIST: How come? [00:34:54]
CLIENT: Well, I mean I have all these great people in my life but I don't know James. And that's a real relationship but it's not a full relationship. It is what it is and I don't want to leave myself in a position where I can't make full relationships or sustain them. But I don't really know how to avoid that either. Other people, I mean people hurt me. I don't know if they really mean to, it's just they say things that hurt and I just pull back. And it's not their fault. I'm - I feel like I'm one giant wound in some ways. Everything hurts me and I want people to know what this is like for me but I also really don't. This is horrible. I don't want people to know what that's like. [00:37:28]
THERAPIST: Yes, I think one aspect of I guess depression if you want to call it that or the problems that you're having is that you are having - and maybe you can't make full relationships now. I don't mean you don't have the skills for it or you're not committed in lots of ways but...
CLIENT: Yes, I just don't have the...
THERAPIST: There's a lot you feel - and I'm not saying inaccurately - that you have to leave out.
CLIENT: Yes, and I find it much more exhausting dealing with other people's problems. I find it much harder to take care of other people. I - it's like a big part of me is usually somewhere else or has to be somewhere else. I just really hate that. I hate being that person. I really - I don't know how to fix it. [00:40:11]
THERAPIST: Well I think you're sort of compartmentalizing or looking in a way to have the part of the relationship here that you are not being able to have elsewhere, which I think is also worrisome. The impression is your worry is too dependent or too close or it will pull you away from your other relationships in some kind of a [00:41:26] fashion.
CLIENT: I'm - I do worry about that. But I worry more that - I worrying more about and at the fact that I can't be this person in my other relationships. I worry more about - I don't really believe in the exclusivity of there's a limited number of people that you can be very close to. I really don't believe that; I have found that to be the case. But I really worry about the fact that I can't seem to be close to anybody right now. Other than to some extent you but that's not the same thing and - yes, it's not like this is substituting for anything. It's more like this is - I don't - I guess there's no place other than sometimes with James, sometimes not often that I can really have that closeness. It's certainly the only place where I can have that closeness and not feel guilty about it. I can't not feel guilty about what I'm doing to James. I worry about what I'm doing to him. I tell him that and he says I'm not worried about that. It's okay, but...
THERAPIST: Yes, right. [00:43:45]
CLIENT: I hear him but it doesn't really want to sink in. But I'm sorry I don't want anybody to be close to me. It would really suck for them. There's nothing good to be close to.
THERAPIST: Like pretty much misery and horror?
CLIENT: Yes. I don't - I'm really lucky. I mean I have - people still want to be close to me; they still want to be my friends. I don't know why. And the extent to which I - I feel like it's to some great extent dependent on my feeling like I'm okay, but some of them - be able to be healthy. I wasn't just always thinking about how much it hurt.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. [inaudible at 00:46:08]
END TRANSCRIPT
