TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:



COUNSELOR: I think this is the seventh session.


PATIENT: There was something I wanted to talk about. Oh, I've been having dreams again. This time I dreamt that Charlie was going to leave me and I was really upset. I woke up crying - I was shaking and everything. I was chasing him down these long halls and I was yelling: "Don't go, don't go." And I told him about it and he couldn't understand why I had this. I really believed it was happening I was that upset about it. So I told him about some of these views I'd been having about him walking out one day and not coming back.


COUNSELOR: Of him leaving you?


PATIENT: I think he was kind of surprised because I don't think he realized that I was really that frightened of the unrest with me and with our marriage. I don't know, I just felt so much closer to him in the last couple of weeks and I really want to do things with him and be with him all the time. I don't like if it's like panic or what it is.



COUNSELOR: What does that really mean? Is it really that you want to be much closer to him or are you just scared that he might go away?


PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe it's the fear that I reached a point that I felt like we had almost lost each other and that it's sort of like a new discovery. Things about him and about myself that I lost for a while. Like what's really important to me about life and whether I was really that...one of the things that started becoming more important to me were, all of a sudden, whether they meant anything to me at all. (2:54)


COUNSELOR: Now you can look back; now you're getting back what you want?


PATIENT: Yeah, my relationship with Charlie is starting to mean something to me again. Just everything in general in life is starting to do things to me again that for a long time I just really didn't care about.


COUNSELOR:: Like you are perking up? Taking an interest again?


PATIENT: U-hum. I spent the whole day yesterday with my mother and we had a nice day. We talked a lot about a lot of different things. I felt like I was really communicating with her because I felt like she really understood what I was saying about my problems and why I have them. I just felt it was really a beautiful day. Everything was just so good. I just don't feel the pain about things as I did before and I'm hoping that the situation with Charlie and myself, it seems like it's working out and I think I really want it to.


COUNSELOR: Do you really want it to?


PATIENT: A-ha, I think so. I really thought a lot about what I talked to you about last week and I think that perhaps the doubt that was there had to be there because of circumstances that were there four years ago. It really couldn't be any other way. I feel like there had to be something to make me make that decision more than just desperation or guilt. I just don't feel I could make that decision unless there was something there and I've begun to think back about the way it was then. 


I did have strong feelings for him and for the most part I was almost 100 per cent devoted and I think that any of the episodes that I had while he was away and we were separated were natural because they were out of loneliness and it wasn't like I was out searching for a replacement or for someone else. (6:15)


My sexual problems with Charlie I think happened long before he came along. I think it probably would have happened with anybody I married.


COUNSELOR: So all long you've wanted him and also it wasn't specifically with him that the sexual problems came. It would have been that way with anybody you can say. So why blame him for everything?


PATIENT: I think that what happened with me and Charlie probably would have happened with anyone because of my feelings about sex. They are so scattered and I cannot put them together. I really don't how - or if I ever will. I just found that I desired to have sex with him more than I did before. It could because of this fear that he's going to leave and I have this psycho reason, or all of a sudden it's more like a challenge to be desirable so that I won't lose him.


COUNSELOR: Is that what it feels like to you?


PATIENT: I don't know. I can't really say that that's it but I feel like it could be it because I can't understand why all of a sudden it would just be different. I'm looking for a reason and I feel that if that's the only reason, I don't want it that way because eventually that will wear off and I will be right back where I was before.


COUNSELOR: How does it feel when you're making love with him? Is it done like you really want him? Or do you think: "I have to do this"? Or what is it?


PATIENT: No, I don't feel that it's, like, a duty as such but I feel like I'm doing something to make him happy and it's like my happiness doesn't count. (9:07)


COUNSELOR: You are doing it for him?


PATIENT: U-Hum. The way I feel...it's sort of funny in a way because I'm not really concentrating on what I'm doing. I'm trying hard. It's not that I'm not enjoying it but all sorts of other things are going through my mind. You know, really weird things like what I'm going to do tomorrow.


COUNSELOR: You just gotta do.


PATIENT: And not get completely carried away with it.


COUNSELOR: So, presumably, you're not really doing it for you. You are feeling things but you are really not passionately into it.


PATIENT: I feel that now I need to have some kind of sex plan other than just me masturbating or something like that but I can't say that...I'm not involved with it. I have the need and the desire but I don't know if it's a need and desire that could be satisfied by anybody. I mean, no, that anybody could satisfy. Like it wouldn't make any difference who it was.


COUNSELOR: Making love is not for you maybe?


PATIENT: No, wait, I don't mean it that way. I mean that it is just a need that I have that my body has to fulfill but anybody could do it. In other words, it's not important who it is.


COUNSELOR: It's not with Charlie it is special and sometimes you feel it ought to be really special with Charlie.


PATIENT: Yeah, I guess that it wouldn't be normal in my mind to feel that the only person who would really satisfy me would be my own husband. But I don't really feel that way. I feel like any man would satisfy me. It's like going back to that business with love. I cannot connect love with sex. I don't have it at the same level as someone else might have it but then I imagine that it would be like when you get married. (12:00)


COUNSELOR: So like you're saying it ought to be that Charlie was special to you - that you loved him; that you had sex with him and both of those were something just for him. That's the way things should but that's not the way you are and that's funny or something?


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't even connect sex with being married. Being married, to me, there are so many more important things than sex. Although I have sex urges I don't connect them with being married. I suppose that's why it frightened me when I did what I did because I couldn't believe that it had actually come to that (what I went through with that fellow). I couldn't believe that I had actually allowed myself to come that far and yet I wondered - or I think maybe I realized later that it was probably just a matter of time if the circumstances were right - so on and so forth.


I think back about that too and I wonder - it has primarily been since then that I've really broken down my defenses and allowed myself to think about things where I 'm concerned and I wonder if it couldn't be that. That's why I have developed these strong urges about my relationship with Charlie because of guilt. I feel like I've really betrayed him and although I can't tell him I feel like I have to knock myself out to make up for it and he doesn't really know why I'm doing it.


COUNSELOR: So you're still in love with him. Exactly, you're making up for something that he doesn't even know about? Not that you are more attracted to him now - different? (14:50)


PATIENT: Yes and no. I feel like what I did was wrong and that this isn't really the kind of life that I would want to lead and that maybe I should think back on what I've got and make myself realize: "How important is what I've got? Is it worthy of saving and not betraying?" I feel that it is - I really do. 


COUNSELOR: That this has brought you to a decision point and now it has become important to know what you want to do?


PATIENT: U-hum. I really think that if I was that unhappy with Charlie and that I really didn't want the marriage to work out, then it probably would have just been a beginning for me rather than an end. I really do feel that it was an end. I had more or less talked myself into thinking that my sexual problems were the result of my relationship with Charlie and that I certainly could be excitable and satisfying to a different person. I found out that I was but then I realized that it really didn't mean anything to me and that I really wasn't looking for someone else because if I had been I certainly would have selected or would have gotten involved with someone I really cared about and not just the face or person. (17:18)

I don't feel that - like I can't really visualize myself with anyone else. And I keep thinking: "Maybe it's just because you haven't met anyone else that you would care about or you didn't really give yourself a chance to - or that you haven't had the chance to - become involved with someone that could be as equally as important. But I don't think I want to find anyone else.


COUNSELOR: This is what you want.


PATIENT: U-hum. But I don't know how to keep it. I think the thing that frightens me now more than anything is that the tables could be turned and that the same thing could happen with him and I can't really say I could blame him because I realize that I am not satisfying him sexually and I think he's trying desperately to hang onto our relationship by finding other things that he really likes about me that maybe he couldn't find in someone else. Yet I know that it just can't go on like this. I think what bothers me now more than anything is what I can do to change my own sexual values and if I could ever be the kind of wife that any man would want because I don't really feel that I can.


COUNSELOR: Where are you now with that...the question with...when you say your sexual values?


PATIENT: It's like they are just so distorted - they are not at a level of consistency. It is like I can frown on things at one moment, like if it is in a discussion or something, and I can really come out strong on something and yet I feel that I'm really being hypocritical because I don't think I really feel that way at all about it. I don't know. It's like I really wish sometimes that I could be very immoral. I don't think I ever could because of my conscience - it is always there and it's always, like, rapping me for it - doing something or thinking something. (20:50)


COUNSELOR: On the one hand sex is something to be enjoyed and you like it, but on the other hand it is something dirty, immoral, something one shouldn't talk about in polite conversation. Something like that?


PATIENT: Yes and no. No, it's more like I think of it being something that really can't be enjoyed unless it is dirty or wrong.


COUNSELOR: It has to be that way?


PATIENT: U-hum. Like I can't really think of it in terms of being something right - it's always wrong.


COUNSELOR: And if you're in it, you're doing the wrong thing and it's fun but you are doing the wrong thing right?


PATIENT: Yes and no. Right now, it's right, so it's not fun. 


COUNSELOR: So as long as it is moral...


PATIENT: Then it doesn't hold any satisfaction for me. That's what I can't get straight in my mind. That's why I'm positive that the relationship that I had with this fellow was enjoyable because it was wrong. It was totally wrong and yet every minute that I was there and doing something I was completely oblivious to everything. Nothing else went through my mind. It was like I was in a completely different world. And it didn't really hit me until the next day. And then, of course, I was extremely upset because then the conscience came in and I just lived through a week of horror. I had all these terrible thoughts but the funny thing that - and I guess that is what bothered me more than anything - was that I don't think I really regretted it. Because I don't think I really comprehended what I had done. And that's what frightens me. (23:36)


COUNSELOR: It's something really terrible that didn't quite sink in?


PATIENT: U-hum. And like now when someone will say something about someone who is doing something like that or has done something like that, I don't even connect myself with that at all.


COUNSELOR: You just put it off?


PATIENT: A-ha. I don't sit there and say anything hateful about the person because I am aware enough to know I don't have the right but I still don't connect myself with being like that person. I feel I should because what I did was wrong and yet I can't really accept the fact that what I did was wrong. It's frightening because I am afraid it will happen again - and that it could very easily. Not because I would talk myself into it - or that anyone would have to talk me into it - but that I could go off like that again and completely lose any thought of what I was doing. And I feel like that's what happened that day. (25:15)


COUNSELOR: And then you'd have to live with that again?


PATIENT: U-hum. And I remember that it was the same way the first time I ever had intercourse with Charlie. It was something I had never given thought to or that I had prepared myself for. And when the moment came I encouraged it and then I enjoyed it. But then two days later it hit me what I had done and I became terrifically guilt ridden about it and convinced that I was going to get pregnant and everything connected with it. We had this terrible scene about it and I remember he told me then that he would never go to bed with me again because I wasn't adult enough to accept that type of relationship. And maybe that's it. I can't put it into perspective. It's something that...when it's there, I will jump at the chance but then I can't live with it after that. (26:52)


COUNSELOR: But still because it's wrong, you get thrown into it and then you have to live with it...something wrong?


PATIENT: Maybe it's because I find it exciting to do something shocking in my mind so that at the moment that I have to make a decision, I don't even think of it as a decision. I just think of it as a thing to do at that moment because it's exciting and then when it's over with and I have to face reality of what I've done, I can't so I sort of just get forget about it - I flick it off. 


With my relationship with Charlie - before we got married - there was a period of time we didn't go to bed because of his statement about me and it just got to the point where it went back to where we did go to bed and I just didn't talk about it any more. I truly think that's why I had to tell my mother about it because this was building up inside of me and by telling her I guess that I wanted to shock her but I think maybe I wanted her to turn around and say: "That's wrong, you shouldn't have done it but I'll forgive you for it." Which she didn't do - she didn't react that way at all to it. (29:12)


It's like I played games with it. Then I had to turn around and tell Charlie that I had told her. I kept involving more people in this game. It's the only way, I guess, that I can sense by my own feelings about it.


COUNSELOR: Like trying to get support for what you've done?


PATIENT: Maybe. Or, I don't know, acceptance of it. I don't know what it is. We weren't even engaged or anything and he was gone away on service and I just started seeing this fellow that I told you about last week that I had been dating before him. We went to bed one night but we didn't do anything - there wasn't even anything to talk about - but I felt like I was compelled to tell him about it. I saw him two weeks later but I didn't tell him - I couldn't do it but I played games that whole weekend. I pushed for an engagement and I made threats.


COUNSELOR: With the other guy?


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: This was with Charlie?


PATIENT: Yes with Charlie. But I think he knew that something was wrong but I wouldn't come out and tell him what it was. But I finally did several months later which was really ridiculous because by then it should have meant nothing but I was still dwelling on it. It was like I had built up this big emotional scene that was going to take place but I didn't and I just turned around and did the same thing all over again. I made this big play for a reaction and I didn't get it. I'm kind of afraid that's what I'm doing now. (31:53)


COUNSELOR: Making a play for Charlie again?


PATIENT: U-hum. 


COUNSELOR: A-ha. And it feels the same as it did when you were with that other guy and there was a reaction afterwards?


PATIENT: U-hum. And it's like...I don't know if...I think I really got the strength to keep my mouth shut and not blow it but I'm just afraid I'm being let down one time too often. It's like I'm already thinking about what's going to happen. I'm starting to really dwell on it and I think that is maybe why I'm having these really strong urges to make everything right between us. It is sort of like I'm preparing, I'm laying the ground work. 


COUNSELOR: So you can tell him?


PATIENT: Well, I'm positive that I want to tell him. That's not even a question in my mind but I know that I can't because I know that even if I wanted to tell him it wouldn't serve any real purpose.


COUNSELOR: So that is the issue. You really want to tell him that about sleeping with this guy but you think it would really mess things up and he might leave you if you did?


PATIENT: Well, you know, it is funny like. On one hand, I feel if I could really sit down and talk to him about it and really throw out all emotion and just talk about it, then maybe it would help us because I am sure that I could tell him things because of it that would change our relationship. But I know that could never happen - it's almost impossible.


COUNSELOR: You can't tell him?


PATIENT: That it would never be that way and that I would gain nothing from telling him. And yet I definitely feel that in some ways it might be helpful because I don't think that Charlie is even aware of anything that I feel about sex at all. I'm positive that he's not because of, like I mentioned earlier, he just doesn't like to talk about it where I'm concerned or any of my experiences or thoughts or desires. (34:56)


To him, I think, because he always had - what to him are normal relationships with girls or people he was serious about at the time - should be that way with us. And that the problems we are having are that easy that they can be solved but it's not like...I feel sometimes this really great urge to talk to him about something and even though I know that it would be embarrassing and it would be hard for me to do, I feel like I really want to do it. But he won't let me. He doesn't want me to talk to him about it and I feel like he is the only one I really could talk to about it because I really want him to know how I feel.


COUNSELOR: But he keeps closing you off?


PATIENT: A-hum because, see, I don't think that he puts my sexual hang-ups in connection with him. I don't think he feels that these things that...I have a lot of sex that I feel like so wrong or distorted...you know, really are in any effect with him.


COUNSELOR: How do you feel about his not wanting you to tell him about sex?


PATIENT: I feel like he doesn't want to face the idea that maybe I'm not normal or something. Like it would destroy his image of me or something. That's why I feel he keeps telling me that I have to just go to some other stranger - someone who doesn't mean anything to me and wouldn't care. And yet, I don't feel that way.


COUNSELOR: Do you like it out in the open?


PATIENT: U-hum, unless...I mean, I am convinced that he feels that if I was to talk to him about these things they would hurt him deeply. So he doesn't want to know about them. (37:52)


COUNSELOR: So you are afraid to push on it because it might hurt him and because what?


PATIENT: I don't even talk about it any more because there were a few times where I was ready to burst it all out into the open and he would turn it off. So I don't even try to talk about it any more because I know that he won't let me.


COUNSELOR: So is like you've just given up?


PATIENT: No. No. I haven't given up. I still feel the urge but I just don't because I know that he won't let me.


COUNSELOR: It is useless to try?


PATIENT: U-hum. And I am afraid that if I do start talking about something that is unpleasant to him or about something that he doesn't want to hear or know, I am afraid that he will just get up and walk out or that it will just destroy our whole relationship completely.


COUNSELOR: So you have to tread very carefully. You don't want to do anything that may send him away?


PATIENT: U-hum. I think what it is too is that he has such a strong feeling of what a wife and a mother should be and perhaps he feels that if I would tell him anything about the fantasies that I have or the ideas or responses that I have in connection with sex it would destroy his opinion of me and then he could never accept me.


COUNSELOR: Is that what you think and feel?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: What I'm hearing you saying is that you can hardly make a move about what's going on in your head because you are so scared that any little thing will make him reject you?


PATIENT: U-hum. It's not that I don't want to talk to him about my relationship with other people. Then I could understand it a little better; that he wouldn't want to hear about that. But it has nothing to do with other people - it is me. (40:38)


COUNSELOR: He doesn't want to hear about you.


PATIENT: I think maybe he is afraid that if I did start talking about it, that other things would enter into it. But the funny thing is that I know about almost everyone that he has ever slept with and about things he has done and said and everything. Yet he knows virtually nothing about me.


COUNSELOR: So it's okay for him to do that but it is not okay for you to do that?


PATIENT: And I really think that if he knew some of these experiences that I have had - what happened to me afterwards and so on and so forth - that he would have a better understanding. And that maybe between the two of us - breaking us apart - we could find a solution.


COUNSELOR: As it is now though, you are just, kind of, shut off. He doesn't know?


PATIENT: No, he has no idea. He has no idea of how involved I was with anybody I ever went out with or what experiences and problems I had in connection with sex as a single person. I feel that by my telling you the problems that perhaps I will find a solution but I don't know if the solution will affect our marriage.


COUNSELOR: On the other hand you were saying maybe if you could get this out in the open, then you could come to together to a resolution which is different from doing it here.


PATIENT: But as long as he refuses to talk about it then I don't feel I should even bring it up with him. Because I just can't start babbling on about all these things if he is not going to respond to them.


COUNSELOR: So you feel he won't give in then, maybe?


PATIENT: I don't think he wants to. And I don't think that he even looks at that as even being part of the problem.


COUNSELOR: Can you talk about that? What you just said. That's another level we have. I mean instead of just saying: " I just want to tell you about all the stuff in my head", can you say: "I feel you don't want me to talk about that." Is that true? And why is that? Do you see what I mean?


PATIENT: Why he doesn't want me to talk about it? (43:46)


COUNSELOR: Yes. Kind of get into that. That's not talking about it - that is saying: "I feel you don't want me to talk about it - is that true? Why don't you want me to talk about it? You tell me about your things. It's very strange to me that I've never been able to tell you about my things." Like that, you see.


PATIENT: I asked him about that once - almost that way and he just said that it was different with me. That he really couldn't help me with what was wrong and that he really didn't want to hear about it because he felt that it was too personal.


COUNSELOR: What does that mean? But I'll play you?


PATIENT: Perhaps that if I would know some of these things about you that you would begin to feel uncomfortable around me.


COUNSELOR: But I have been telling you that that will make you feel even more uncomfortable.


PATIENT: But I think that some things should just be kept private.


COUNSELOR: But you're married!


PATIENT: That's the way it goes. (chuckles) That's the way the routine goes. We really did have a big scene about that one day and it just went on like that. I couldn't get anywhere. Like he'd tell me to talk to my doctor about it or maybe there's someone at the army base you could talk to. I really didn't have any desire to talk to anyone about it.


I remember once desperately trying to talk to my mother about it. In fact it was the night that the thing came on about Charlie and myself. I didn't get anywhere. At the time I thought it was because she was turning me off but I really felt that I didn't want to tell her. I mean I couldn't see where it would serve any real purpose in telling her and I knew that she really wasn't capable of helping me with it. So I didn't go and I didn't push any further. (46:25)


But I really feel that it would be different if Charlie and I could talk about it and he could know things - things that happened in the past. And it's kind of like this double standard that I have set up for myself and it's followed me right into my marriage. And I really think that I believed it would honestly go away. I can't believe that I'm no different to what I was six years ago about sex and I am still playing the double standard, maybe not in the same way or with the same idea in the back of my mind but I'm still doing it. I'm not any more sexually mature today than when I was 13 years old.


It is very important to me. I don't know if it will ever change but I think that if it were brought out it might be different in our marriage. It might be I would not have that uptight feeling of having a relationship with my husband. That that should be normal and enjoyable and not something that's just dull and doesn't mean anything because it is not interesting.


COUNSELOR: To be interesting it would have to be bad or elusive or exciting?


PATIENT: I think - and I am prepared to really believe - that if we would started talking about my sexual hang ups there would be things that would come out about him that I feel have to be there because I can't believe he has been willing to go along this route for this amount of time and not do something about it. I feel this is part of the problem too. (49:22)


COUNSELOR: There is something wrong with him there?


PATIENT: U-hum. For a while I was starting to imagine all kinds of weird things like well maybe he really wanted to be a homosexual or something like that. I started looking for things - for signs. Like when we were with our friends and their friends. Nothing ever came apparent to me that this was the problem. I didn't want to have sex but I couldn't understand why he didn't. I thought that I knew why I didn't want to but I couldn't figure out why he didn't want to.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like there has been this incredible gulf between you. It just felt such a long time. You don't share that with each other?


PATIENT: No. It's something that we just don't talk about. We are both aware of the problem and why we have it. Not why we have it but that it is there and Charlie is a great one for finding reasons. For a while he passed it off about school and he kept finding excuses for it but I never did. I always knew that it was a problem and I would bring it up and he would just pass it off. And I would make jokes about it and I finally quit taking birth control pills because I just told him it was stupid. Why take birth control pills when you are not doing anything? And I keep thinking that maybe that is why it turned me off my whole relationship with him.


COUNSELOR: What was that?


PATIENT: When we first got married I was sort of like the aggressor and he really wasn't that interested any more. He kept saying that it was because he couldn't accept being married. I think I talked about this before.


COUNSELOR: I remember. (52:06)


PATIENT: I think that was really the point where way back then when he lost all interest in sex. And my interest keeps increasing because I didn't have all the experiences that he had before I got married. Maybe I had hoped that the only normal sexual relationship I could ever have would be with my husband and that I could break down these obstacles and allow myself to do things that I had only thought about before or thought that I would like to do. When the marriage happened - but this relationship didn't happen - it just turned me off towards him. 


Maybe that's why I can't accept just going to bed and doing it. It doesn't mean anything to me with him. I still can't put sex with love. I think it will take me a long time to do that - if I ever will. I don't know. But I think that there could be an inducement to make me at least enjoy it with him and not have to seek it out with a stranger. If his actions would be different.


COUNSELOR: You mean actually when he makes love to you?


PATIENT: U-hum. If he would just react differently towards us.


COUNSELOR: That would be that he would be pleased with you or something?


PATIENT: No, that he would please me - because he isn't. I think he is aware of it to a point and I think this bothers him too.


COUNSELOR: That he is not satisfying you somehow. And that is one of the issues that has to be confronted? (54:44)


PATIENT: U-hum. We have talked about that too. Just a very light and casual type of conversation. Different things that I am curious about with sex. I have asked him why he has never pursued it or tried it. And he will say something like: "Oh, I went through that routine when I was 18 or 19. It just turns me off now." You know, things like that. 


COUNSELOR: And that leaves you nowhere because you're sort of saying that something might work and he says: "Forget it."


PATIENT:: Yeah. Like: "I don't like it so I am not going to do it." I don't feel that he has any kind of an answer. I'm really glad he did it and I'm glad that he has the experience before settling with me.


COUNSELOR: It's like entirely taking you out of the situation - telling you about what he did when he was 18.


PATIENT: I have these really goofy ideas like if I'm ever going to satisfying my desires then I am going to have to be either frustrated for the rest of my life or find someone to satisfy for me. And that's when I turn off, see, because that's when I have to make a decision and I can't. No, I have to retract that. Then I have to make a decision and I would always take the latter role like: "Well, you know..."


COUNSELOR: Don't push it.


PATIENT: Maybe that is not really that great anyway and not that important so I will just think about it and maybe that will just satisfy me. See? And then that is when the fantasies start working their way in. It is like I am blaming him for the fantasies because I don't like them. They really make me feel ugly and droomy when I have them yet I feel like if I didn't have to be so damn curious about everything then I wouldn't have them. (57:26)


COUNSELOR: These are fantasies about sex you are talking about?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: Set off by his not giving you what you want? You would rather have it from him than it being a fantasy?


PATIENT: U-hum. I feel like he is the only one I could do things with that I wouldn't feel guilty about. It would be natural and right to do it with your husband but I feel that even though I might place myself into a position with someone in my mind that I know I could never bring myself do that because it just would be something I could never live with. Even with the lovemaking that I did with this fellow was very straight and normal and nothing different - that was it. I didn't even think about suggesting or encouraging anything else. That's why I feel so desperate. I couldn't even find it on that level. It is just something that I would have to think about for the rest of my life. If I bring it up - well, I did bring it up for a long time. I harped about a lot of things. I would harp and harp about it. I would say: "Well, why can't we do it. Why can't you do that to me?" And he would just say: "Because I don't like to and I'm not going to do it and that's that." And that's where it would stop.


COUNSELOR: So you would never get anything?


PATIENT: No. Maybe if he would really talk to me about it and tell me other than just saying: "I did this when I was 18 or 19 and I don't care for it anymore."


COUNSELOR: Not only do you not get it - you get cut off. (59:53)


PATIENT: Yeah. But we can't even talk about it. So I feel like I really hit a dead end. I feel like that maybe if we did talk about it he might change his ideas about it and he might realize what he's doing. I am not totally placing the blame on him. I don't feel that he is maybe even aware of what he is doing - I don't think he is. The only thing that I really blame him for is that he won't let me even talk about it. 


It's getting hard for him because I think that deep down inside he is becoming afraid that I am becoming attracted to other people. He has been accusing me of doing things like encouraging a situation or even really coming right out and doing something - even if it is just like having a hot make-out session or something. And it's so untrue. I have to laugh because now I'm thinking: "You should really know." This is the kind of game I was playing in my mind.


COUNSELOR: "If you only knew what I really did." (chuckles)


PATIENT: Yeah. The other things were totally innocent but I am thinking to myself that deep down inside he must know that something is wrong. He knows that I really don't care for other people to touch me or proposition me. I take a real defensive attitude towards people like that. I have always told him when anything like this has ever happened. And he doesn't get angry or create a scene. He always says: "Well, I know you can handle it. You just have to expect these things." 


But it is changing. It is with really weird people - like our best friends. He accused me of doing something with him, and his brother. That was terrible. I couldn't believe it. It's like he's picking out people that give him (inaudible at 1:02:42). That these are the people he is really scared of the most. People that he really should trust and would know they wouldn't do anything to hurt either of us. Not just me but him too. That's funny too because that's the talking thing again - the business with his brother. (1:03:16)


COUNSELOR: We are going to have to stop. Go ahead. I'm listening while I'm filling out these things.


PATIENT: He made the accusation and beyond defending myself he really didn't want to talk about it anymore. He just woke up the next morning and said: "Wow, I've had too much to drink and I guess I let my imagination run away with myself." And that was the end of it.


COUNSELOR: So you never got a chance to get to what it was?


PATIENT: To why he really felt that I would do something like that or what would make him think that a situation like that would arise - or could.


COUNSELOR: Which is the same thing again. Something comes up and then you get cut off - you just can't talk to him about it?


PATIENT: If it is distasteful to him. Or maybe if he was afraid of something I would say it to him - that would hurt him. I don't know.


COUNSELOR: I will see you next week.


PATIENT: I was going to ask you: during the holidays are you going to be counseling?


COUNSELOR: I may be working for two weeks. Maybe. I will let you know.


PATIENT: Because I may not be able to come in on two Tuesdays anyway because I may have to work. You can tell me anyway.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Goodbye.(1:05:03)
