*TEXT-PV010007 Tuesday 1 October 1968         4526
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (3-minute silence) I've been thinking about the last few days, I guess since the middle of last week.  I've been gradually feeling more and more frustrated and moody I guess, I guess would be a good way to put it.  And I can't tell what it is.  I, I have this feeling that there is something bothering me and I don't know what it is and I can't tell whether it's the feeling I was mentioning I think yesterday of kind of losing control again at work and planning out what I want and I can see that I just, either, I'm trying to plan out too much and I have too many things on my mind that I can't work together or else I'm just not thinking clearly what it is I want to do and then selecting and cutting out other things.  Or whether it's something coming out of here that I'm thinking and I'm not aware I'm thinking and, but I've been getting so I feel more and more tense and more and more frustrated and when I'm home with MSC it, I guess it comes out.  I am again unaware that I'm doing this until he well, makes some comment, but I guess I'm being very moody with him and I just can't, I've really been thinking about it and I just can't understand what it is.  (Pause) Makes me feel like just withdrawing, sort of just forgetting everything and I know, I —
ANALYST:   And what?  What, what would you like to do then?
PATIENT:  Z—— people (chuckle), just keeping away from people.  I know I've felt this way before so it can't just be something that's coming out of what I'm thinking here because it just seems like my whole life has been a series of cycles where I'm able to handle things and then, then things get, so I feel as if I just can't handle them and then I well, do my work, whatever it is, and then otherwise just withdraw from people.  And I won't see anybody unless I have to and usually at times like this since we've been married, MSCZ has to force me into asking people to come over if, if he wants them to come over.  Because I'm completely uninterested in that.  (Pause) And I can just feel myself getting very, well, self-centered isn't the right word, but just withdrawn into, with just concerns about myself so when I'm talking with other people I can hardly talk with them and all I'm thinking about all the time is how unhappy I feel.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   And what do you want to do here when you feel here as though you want to withdraw?
PATIENT:  When I feel it here?
ANALYST:   Yeah.
PATIENT:  I haven't thought in terms of feeling it here.
ANALYST:   You haven't yet?
PATIENT:  Well, I think I must have been feeling this way yesterday, only I feel it more strongly today.  And yesterday I just felt very frustrated that I couldn't really, I didn't feel I was getting anywhere and uhm and you know, either I was fighting thoughts or I wasn't bringing them out or else any thoughts I had just didn't seem to go anywhere.  I don't know, then I think I might begin to almost feel antagonistic to you because somehow like to think well, it's not my fault.  It's (chuckle) your fault, which I know it isn't, but well, that would be, I, I —  (Pause) I think when I was thinking about this, I was thinking of being here more in terms of maybe in talking here I would hit upon whatever it is.  I think maybe in a way I expect too much from what I can do here, I, I almost expect in 2 weeks I'll have everything all solved (chuckle) and perhaps I'm feeling very impatient about it.  (Pause)
But this is upsetting me particularly because I'm very aware of what I do with the children I'm teaching and I, just get so that I don't really even have an interest in them and I don't have an interest in teaching them.  I'm just kind of going through the motion and they annoy me then and I get very short tempered and I, I become much more bossy than I ever am any other time.  And I don't know, I just know that I'm very bad for them then and I'm not free to think of when they are unable to do certain things I'm, I'm not free, free within myself to just think of something else to do.  I just seem to be unable to really, even think about it.  That's the same as what I said about being in conversation with people.  I think I'm, maybe not consciously, but still so centered on the fact that I'm feeling so awful that I can't go beyond that to thinking anything else.  (2-minute silence)
And I've never known how to approach, when I feel this way because, you know, when I felt this way when, well I imagine when I was in high school, either I'd tell myself, or sometimes even my mother would talk to me about the fact that where you have to just do something and I mean it's up to you to get yourself out of this, and to act, or else a friend of mine that I was particularly close to would try and encourage me to do things with her although she never directly said you just have to act and make decisions and get yourself out.  I think in a way, just the way she was, was saying to me because of the way I saw her, that this is what I should do.  And I could just never do it.  I don't know whether I really tried or I didn't try.  I couldn't tell.  I just felt paralyzed and I, it's a feeling that maybe I have less now but I still have it.  Because even now when I get this way, if I weren't coming here at 5:00 now, I probably would go home and sit and sort of doodle around a little bit and not really accomplish anything and just generally be very unhappy and, and sit there trying to think why I'm unhappy or what can I do and maybe I'd even know what I could do but I wouldn't be able to do it.  (Pause) I suppose it's a form of self-pity that when I feel inadequate in other ways at least I have enough self-pity and make myself feel better (chuckle).  (Silence)
One thing I am aware that I'm, I mean this is probably not very important but I can just tell if I'm thinking things that I've said before or any variation, I don't say them again.  Or at least I am consciously I guess trying not to.  (Silence) It's funny how somehow I have these, well, (chuckle) as my husband calls them, piles of things that I keep and collect and can't throw away almost, well, the feeling I have is the same type of feeling that I'm underneath all these piles and they're just all going to cave in on me and all around me when I get like this.  And I'll never get out.  (2-minute silence)
It just seems funny to me that knowing that I am feeling completely held down by saving so much and keep thinking I want to do this about going through these things or look over those notes so I'm sure I've got good ideas about what I want to do and it's funny that knowing that this is all holding me down, I can't just leave them alone or throw them out or forget about them and I was thinking about the fact that in, in my family, probably my father is the one who has been the most apt to save a lot.  (Clears throat) I guess in things like old clothes that he thinks might still be good and there must be something that we both feel will be fulfilled in saving these things but I think I'm worse than he is.  (Pause) And I can see where having them all gives me a false sense of self-confidence, but, but when I know that it's really not, then, then why does it still function?
ANALYST:   I don't have an entirely clear picture about the piles and the stacks.  What are they?  Magazines?
PATIENT:  Oh, just well, also clippings of things that might apply to teaching or uhm, old things that I've done that you know, I keep because I might want to look back at something I've done, uhm.
ANALYST:   What do you mean?  Notebooks?
PATIENT:  Yes.  And, and or sample of things you know, that either I've done, or somebody else did in their class and I thought it might be a good idea.  So instead of just putting it in my mind, and knowing I could pull it out of my mind if I ever wanted it, I have to keep the actual things.  And if you keep collecting like this, after a while you get an awful lot of stuff.  Or else, first drafts of papers, and notebooks from college or you know, old class notes from, I probably even have some from high school now though I try to throw a lot out.  But even that was very hard for me to do.  And I'll never look at them.  I don't understand what it is that I, why I want it around.  I know with magazines it's the idea that well, I haven't read it yet, so you know, if I hadn't had a chance to read something and so may—, you know, I'll save it because I think I'm going to read it.  And rarely do you get a chance to go back and read magazines that are several weeks old because there are so many others that are probably around at that point.  Or else I read an article and it struck me as being something good and so instead of just knowing I've read it so I'll remember it, I have to keep it around even though I know I'll never look at it.
And I suppose it's all the same type of thing as when I read a book for a course, I just take way too many notes.  I don't really select.  I, this is part of it, I just can't select.  It was always true when I did any papers for college or high school.  The major criticism was that they were too long, because I tried to do too much and I wouldn't be able to select within it.  And my basic idea or objective might have been good, but I ruined it by not narrowing it down and getting a good focus and taking anything out that was extraneous to that.  And this is what I'm doing now, just what's concerning me right at the moment, is the way I'm approaching planning my lessons for school and how I'm not just sitting there thinking of the class I have at hand and what purposes I should have and what my objective, ject—, objective should be on thinking in terms of what notes and examples, and so forth do I have that I can look through for guidance in making my plans.  And so the class I have is practically unimportant which is exactly the opposite way it should be.  (Silence)
I think it is just basically a lack of confidence that either that I'm going to remember that I've taken it in, that I can think for myself and judge for myself, create a new way, approach for myself and — (pause) and all that makes me think back to when I was, I think I mentioned this already, when I was young and at least from stories told about me, I, and I seem to remember feeling this way too, I was very adventurous and I used to get hurt a lot too, because I would just jump right into things without thinking and uhm, but anyway, I would do things like, on a raft out in a la—, the lake, I'd dive right off without even thinking about the depth or anything, whether I could swim or anything, because I just was sure that I'd be alright.
And then suddenly it just seemed to me overnight I changed.  And I became very fearful.  And I have this memory of something which I'm not even sure had happened, but I used to go to a summer camp and uhm, I don't even know what age it was, when I think this happened, uhm, but I have this memory of diving off the end of the dock which was just deep enough to do that and going right down, and, and crashing right into the bottom and scraping along on the sand and then coming up.  And then after that I never could dive again.  And I don't know whether I created that memory or it really did happen.  (Pause)
Or I used to love to swim in the ocean and I guess there were several summers when I would cut my feet on clam shells and things like that which at the time was kind of a bother.  But I don't know that that in itself would make me feel really fearful about going in the ocean and just suddenly I didn't want to go in and I wouldn't, I would think in terms of I don't want to cut my feet, but again, I don't know whether that was really it.  (Pause) And from what my parents say now, uhm, I used to be the kind of person that would be the first one to try anything new and I certainly wouldn't be now and I don't think for a long time I would be.
And also just the fear I have for flying, which is very, very strong, and almost seems like it gets stronger every time I go flying, is something I can't understand.  Then I know I have an obsession with thinking about death in terms of, if I read about an accident or uhm, somebody's died of an illness, I, I have to try very hard to put myself in their position and think how they must have felt, like when they were dying and, and what thoughts must have been in their mind.  And I'm sure I'm (chuckle) completely off, but I, I do this, with a, I just can't stop myself doing it, every time I hear of one of these things.  (Pause) And it's funny too that I feel this way about dying, because I mean, I, I can't accept it, and it's funny that I do, because sometimes I feel unhappy enough so I keep thinking well, if I'm going to feel unhappy like this the rest of my life, then it's kind of silly living on.  Although I'd never do anything, I know, but — (pause)
When I was in 10th grade in particular, I, and I know (chuckle) just from the little I've read which makes me feel so silly now, but I used to think an awful lot about committing suicide, and again, I think it was dwelling on feeling sorry for myself.  (Pause) And just thinking about it, I can't think why I was so unhappy except that I somehow felt there was something in my relationship with people that wasn't right or uhm, I just don't know what it was because I had friends and I was beginning to date boys, in fact that was probably the year that I did most of any dating while I was in high school and I could have been doing very well in school but I didn't.  I did very badly that year.  (Pause) And then next year I guess I decided well, I'm not going to spend another year that way so instead of thinking in terms of how I could relate with people, I, uhm, I, can see now I just made myself fall into the work and I became, I used to be quite shy about talking in class, and I became very, very aggressive in class discussions and then for the next 2 years I just really, I did little else, but my work, and, and sometimes I was in school sports so that would take time in the afternoon and then I'd have to do homework at night.  And somehow I managed it so that I always had homework I had to do.
ANALYST:   And you dated less?
PATIENT:  And I dated less, yes.  I don't think I dated at all in my junior year.  And in my senior year there were, the, as often happens a senior year, when there are no older boys for girls to turn to, the boys in the class kind of felt responsible for making sure the girls went places, I guess.  So there was a, you know, group of boys would form and, uhm, I didn't date very much at all but occasionally I think one of them would ask me to a dance or something.  (Pause) I remember now that some, somebody once told me that they had thought I was dating older boys, because I, I know I just kind of withdrew from them and I used, well, except for a very few friends, that uhm, I had classes with and knew well, male friends, I'd I just, I just couldn't talk to a boy.  I was always very, very self-conscious and I would just cut them off, I guess if they ever tried to talk to me.
And in college, it's almost, I just realized, that it's almost a repetition of the way high school went.  Because I, in high school in my 10th grade year I think, no 9th grade year was the year I felt so horrified at talking to a boy, I guess it was then.  But anyway, in 10th grade I dated quite a bit.  And then in college I started out freshman year by dating a lot and always being madly in love with somebody and there was always somebody around and you know, I felt very popular and everything and then, sophomore year, I, any time I dated anybody, I just couldn't handle it and I would start withdrawing again and getting involved in work and then in the last 2 years I did more in working in my classes and in getting involved in other organizations and things like that, which I'd often done in high school and dating very little.  (Pause)
And it was funny too because the summer af—, uhm when was that, summer after my sophomore year I think, in college, I went to PBRD on an experiment and the son of the leader in PBRD who was quite a bit older than me, uhm, started taking me about because my family couldn't and then we developed a friendship.  And again I thought that maybe I was in love with this person and so he was coming back to the United States on a job and we continued to date somewhat when we were back here.  But I think I knew then that there was just nothing.  In fact I think I knew all along he, he was fun and in PBRD it was very pleasant, but I knew it would never really develop into to anything like being married.  But I wouldn't release — I just couldn't let go, and I, I think I liked just knowing he was around so that I could justify the fact that I wasn't dating anybody else.  Or I didn't have to date anybody else because he was there.  And over, when New Year's, or in that period between Christmas and New Year's we had gotten together at a friend's house and I in effect practically told him I really didn't want to date him anymore.  But when he finally broke it off, I, I just couldn't accept it, and was like the world had come to the end.
And then I, and then I think it was the next summer I went to Europe and worked in work camp and I was consciously telling myself I didn't want to get involved with anybody because of this previous thing, but that was probably just on the surface.  I really probably did want to and there was a CHN fellow there who became interested in me and he, he wouldn't let, maybe I, I was encouraging without realizing it but I did seem to try to turn him away and he, he wouldn't.  An so eventually I became very fond of him and I, I, I was very fond of him in a different way, but even then I found it extremely hard to say good-by to him despite any plans we had to get back together again the next year, because I just somehow knew that it was probably just not going to ever develop.
And I don't know exactly why I knew, because in many ways I found him a very fine person and uhm, my sister who met, him, my older sister who met him, uhm, thought he was too, to the to the point of, it almo—, it sort of confirms my feeling it wasn't just an emotional need but again I think it was almost having him in the background so I didn't have to date anybody else.  Because I re—, I remember being aware of being really frightened of the next summer when he was supposed to be coming to the United States and dreading it, because I just somehow couldn't imagine that it would really ever continue.  But then again, uhm, he broke it off and at one point to say that he didn't think that this would ever have any future and I was terribly upset again.  I don't know why I was.  I nev—, I never could tell whether he'd really meant something to me or it were just a kind of security that I didn't want to let go of.  Which is also part of how I felt about MSC when we got married.  I (clears throat) I was at the age where a girl would naturally want to get married and I was aware of this and so I was trying consciously again just to really look at what I was doing and question whether I was doing it because I was afraid or if I really wanted to marry him.
ANALYST:   When was that?
PATIENT:  With MSC?  Uhm the year before we were married.  But yet on the other hand I knew I would marry him no matter what if he'd marry me.  So again, I never knew honestly whether, just how I felt about him.  The only thing that gave me confidence was that the uhm year that I met MSC, I had been dating his roommate first and I had, he was a very personable fellow and I had become very, very attached to him but then things began to slowly disintegrate and for a long time I knew that they were and he didn't really ever say anything.  Perhaps he knew too, but uhm, I wouldn't let go of him and then, then uhm, finally I just somehow was able to let go of him.  It was the first time I had ever been able to be the one to initiate it and let go of the other person.  And so then I felt well maybe now I can do it and so maybe MSC is what I really want.  But because he was there when, when I stopped dating this other fellow, you know it was a question for both of us of whether I had turned to him on the rebound.  And so now when I'm in a mood at home, it's always kind of between us whether or not I really am feeling love for him or if it's sort of compatibility because we've been living together.
ANALYST:   What you call compatibility, does that sort of describe the other fellows too?  I mean the CHN fellow and the BRD fellow and the fellows in high school?
PATIENT:  To the extent, I think the uhm, MEIN, the CHN fellow was different in a way.  That's why I think I really truly cared about him in a way that I didn't about many of the others.  Because I never felt that way about anybody before and until, until MSCZ and MSCZ it was only occasionally that I'd feel that way.  But I never felt that way with anybody after either.  Even with MSCZ's roommate.  And because I did sometimes feel that way with E, I felt well, maybe I really am in love with him.  Because I always equated that feeling with love and, and —
ANALYST:   And that feeling again is what?
PATIENT:  I don't know.  (Chuckle)
ANALYST:   Can you give me some hint?
PATIENT:  Well, I'd say I was, I felt completely happy and not moody, but then I know that's not true.  So I don't really, maybe I made it up again.  (Pause) And lately, sometimes when I thought about it, uhm, it's occurred to me that perhaps I dominated MEIN too, so that my feeling about him was partly because I was dominating him.  And then because he had other qualities I did like, but perhaps what made the difference was that in a way I dominated him.  (Pause) I don't know, when I try to think about what that feeling is, it almost as if it doesn't exist.  (Pause)
But it wa—, there was something though about feeling happy and really feeling like laughing which is again another thing that I so rarely feel.  Both my mother and when I was living at home, and MSC will often say, well, don't look so glum and don't be so gloomy but, or my father would often say well, why don't you give us a smile or something like that, you know.  These are just things that I, it would be so easy just to do it, to please them, and I, I found it extremely hard to do.  And I, I guess part of that feeling is that sometimes I just feel very happy and lighthearted and like laughing and things seem funny to me and, and he could make me laugh and sometimes MSCZ can.  And I don't know, I can involve myself in the moment and not be involved in myself at, at those times.  (Pause) And then I could joke back which I so often find very hard to do.  And I think also there was a feeling that both MEIN and MSCZ were, had a certain integrity, well, I had a certain respect for them, I guess, that uhm I didn't really feel for anybody else.  And then there was probably a quality with MEIN of his just being foreign that made him very appealing.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Well, our time is up.
