TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


Come back alive and in person. Client 0426-002 Tape #105 . 6th Interview.


00:00:30


PATIENT: My husband did it to me again. He called me to (inaudible, voice is soft, far away) 


THERAPIST: You were furious at being (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Well, not only that. (inaudible) going to say and all that is thrown out and I get so angry with him. I was so up...frustrated (inaudible) walked (inaudible)


THERAPIST: (inaudible)


PATIENT: I mean, I couldn't do that. (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: I didn't want to ask him if he needs it and I ended up asking (inaudible) Baby sit. (inaudible) This morning I asked (inaudible) baby sit and she said well, if anyone (inaudible) and I thought geez, I can't guarantee that. (inaudible) So when they call me (inaudible) Both of them think (inaudible) He's supposed to be home but the girl I asked this morning (inaudible) well, why didn't...she just calls me (inaudible) Well, you should have left him with me. I know she doesn't care (inaudible). There she is again...I mean, there the world is again being (inaudible) Listen, I know you don't want to take care of the kids (inaudible) 00:02:39 I said, (inaudible) seem to be getting worse, instead of better. The longer I come here, the worse I'm getting. You know, I'm picking all these things...people that have aggravated me more than (inaudible) Maybe I'm thinking about it more.


THERAPIST: (inaudible) whatever the reason (inaudible) take things with equanimity and (inaudible) 


PATIENT: But if I talk to (inaudible) or even think about...it's always darkest before the dawn. (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah (inaudible) I can't even (inaudible) well, I worked myself out. I got to (inaudible) thinking about our sex life and I have (inaudible to 00:04:45) You know I try to say to myself that's not really the reason. I'm doing it because I (inaudible) and I have to do something and (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) I don't know which comes first. (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: If I don't climax because I masturbate or if I masturbate (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: Medically or physically? Masturbation [has no effect on anything] 00:05:38 (inaudible) clear (inaudible) saying that today (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) does it say masturbation. (inaudible 00:06:07 to 00:07:13) sometimes I think that I'm...maybe I'm (inaudible) like I'm getting even with him. Can't do (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible to 00:08:32) 


PATIENT: I don't know whether my thoughts are really that deep. Is there something that's I've done to (inaudible) and I'm always thinking I can't climax because... So, until I stop I'll never be able to climax but I...I don't want to stop because (inaudible to 00:09:11)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: He did. And then there would be no need if the two of us together could get something (inaudible to 00:09:40)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) Well, I don't know. I have not read...you know, I just read that (inaudible to 00:10:24)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: You know, like if (inaudible to 00:10:36) She's the one who (inaudible) I tried (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: But she got you (inaudible) other way.


PATIENT: (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible)


PATIENT: (inaudible) 00:11:36 I mean they changed (inaudible) Yeah. For anyone. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible)


THERAPIST: You sound disappointed. 


PATIENT: (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: I'm not sure. I'm...you sound to me right now like you're disappointed. 


PATIENT: I don't think I am. What I'd like to do (inaudible to 00:12:36) I did...I did think, I saw you changing direction (ph) (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: You change (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: I don't know but (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Will you shut up? It's the other people that don't get involved (inaudible to 00:13:25) don't change (inaudible to 00:13:55)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Well, you know, if I said that (inaudible)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) you're not getting a (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible to 00:15:02) Well, you know...I mean like I know what tried (ph) and then (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) but she was the one (inaudible) even then I knew why. I...you know, it just happened like (inaudible) and it wasn't even like I'm too stupid to even know (inaudible) until (inaudible) I didn't even know (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible to 00:17:18) (laughter) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) (laughter) 


PATIENT: So, yeah and I was thinking that (inaudible) not even (inaudible) (overlapping voices) not even (inaudible) all day, every day, for years. It goes for years. (inaudible to 00:18:55) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) using it to kind of hold myself back from (inaudible) by not giving (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) that, sort of...you're using that as an excuse. 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) There really is. 


THERAPIST: Yeah. 


PATIENT: (inaudible to 00:20:30) It never...it never even occurred to me before (ph) (inaudible) Usually when I (inaudible to 00:21:13) to talk about it. (inaudible to 00:23:55) (noises, footsteps, other voices, something goes wrong with the tape or recorder-voices get louder but are distorted 00:24:13)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) one way of being on top of him. (inaudible) 


PATIENT: But it makes me feel like (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah, it really is. (inaudible) So I think I'll (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) or not. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah. (laughter) Make up your own mind and... You know, like our sex life (inaudible) not only my masturbation but his not really loving me. Just like...it's...like the other night. It was 3:00 o'clock in the morning and I feel this man feeling me and I think am I being raped? Is there a burglar in the house? Surely nobody in their right minds would (inaudible) at this hour and sure enough, there he was because he couldn't fall asleep and I felt like saying (inaudible) you know. But I (inaudible) sexual arrangements that (inaudible) we're very good and now there's been two in the last month that have been good; the other ones are (inaudible) on and (inaudible) off. There's still (inaudible) angry (ph). 00:26:38)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: (laughs) Take a pill, I don't care. But you know (inaudible)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: I think I really do. (inaudible) roll over and turn over the other way and he thought (inaudible) so then I tried to (inaudible) you know, a game (inaudible) I don't want to (inaudible) 4:00 o'clock in the morning (inaudible) kind of ridiculous. 00:27:57


THERAPIST: Dragging it out and (inaudible) 


PATIENT: I thought (inaudible) at the time, but I thought it was really kind of childish of him to expect (inaudible) when I don't even wake up, you know, (inaudible) o'clock in the morning, you know, ready to go anyplace. 


THERAPIST: It's like maybe too much (inaudible) unreasonable. And you resent this. 


PATIENT: I resent (inaudible) for any reason (inaudible) but even when the girls wake up (inaudible) I'm tired and why aren't they? And so he wants to get to sleep (inaudible) and it's not just me. It could have been anybody there and (inaudible) 


THERAPIST: Yeah and (inaudible) surge of blood (inaudible) 00:29:17


PATIENT: No, because (inaudible) he's gone to bed at 1:30 or so but (inaudible) 2:30 still talking (inaudible) He had (inaudible) 00:29:39


THERAPIST: (inaudible)


PATIENT: (inaudible or nothing to 00:30:22) He runs between hot and cold too. He's kind of moody. I think when you get too moody, people (inaudible or nothing to 00:31:15) I felt used again this morning (inaudible) by my friends (ph). (inaudible) it's like I don't' really have any control over my life (inaudible) I'm too (inaudible) even now. Like Friday night we had a (inaudible) I thought when he comes home...and I had offered to share them with my neighbors because they wanted to have (inaudible) I was still thinking it over, you know, and saying we weren't going to have enough; I'd say well, why don't you (inaudible) like buying furniture. You know, like you (inaudible the little girl I baby sit with (inaudible) and that's part of why I do it. (inaudible to 00:32:48)


THERAPIST: (inaudible) not only bribe (ph) them but (inaudible) scares people. 


PATIENT: But the thing is they worked out beautifully. There was just enough for everyone but (inaudible) give away all our food; why don't you save (ph) first? And by that time, he's ruined the barbecue for me because I'm thinking well, I won't eat anything. (inaudible) I don't eat any meat. You know? Because I don't want them to go without and when I go without they're going feel like they take the food out of my mouth; it seems like, you know, maybe I should have talked to (inaudible) first and said can we share this but I thought I (inaudible)...well, actually I didn't even think about it. But he still...he comes in and ruins the barbecue for me and then it still worked out and everyone had plenty to eat. 00:34:00


THERAPIST: So, he proceeded in telling you (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) feeling (inaudible) for what you did. 


PATIENT: Yeah and he took (inaudible) when it's all over and said well, I'm sorry I (inaudible) Which doesn't do a hell of a lot for (inaudible) He's very negative. Last night I said well, I think we'll play bridge when we get home and the first thing he said was no. And (inaudible) says okay, (inaudible) And he has a perfectly good time but he always says no. And I do that to the children. Before I think it over, I'll say no and then I'll say well, yeah, I guess you can and he chews me out for that and then he does the same thing. (inaudible) as I thought I was. 00:35:14


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Not as clever. He doesn't practice what he's preaching. And I'm not (inaudible) either. Now we all come out (inaudible) my idea and they work out perfectly but he kind of puts a damper on it. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: I say well, maybe we shouldn't have asked them to play bridge. Nobody's going to have a good time; we don't have enough food; we don't have enough to drink. We have, you know...(inaudible) made me worried. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) hear what you're saying but (inaudible) it turns out that your brighten than he is but you wind up feeling like you shouldn't have done it and (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Right. And I think from...just this minute I think, maybe this, is the way he's been undermining my self confidence for all these years; just by little tiny day to day things. You know, like it's not something big. It's not the fact that I don't know that much about the Viet Nam War any other thing, it's these little decisions that I make during the day that he always disagrees with and then he...they turn out okay. Not splendid or anything but it's alright. It was an adequate evening. (inaudible) or whatever. 00:37:03


THERAPIST: Do you get the feeling that like the way you're looking at it right now is like he plants little doubts that like accumulate over time and sort of...you see them as like eroding your sense of self confidence; just like the elements eroding...chipping away (inaudible) little by little by little. 


PATIENT: yeah and then it comes to something big and I...I don't even venture a thought. Because if I can't even decide how much meat is going to go...which should be my domain, after all. Then how can I possible say anything would...listening to any other time on any other subject at all. 00:38:04 If I had any gumption, I'd say look it's going to work out; you're going to have a fine time; now sit down, deal cards and shut up.


THERAPIST: Shut up. If you had any gumption. 


PATIENT: That's right. But you don't have any of that so....I go around worrying for the next hour whether it's going to work out or not. Say what should I do? What do you want me to do? And he'll never say well, you've done it now. 


THERAPIST: Nothing you could do now. 


PATIENT: Nothing will ever straighten up itself. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) quietly awaken (inaudible) 


PATIENT: I wander if he has fun doing that? 00:39:24


THERAPIST: You mean maybe he enjoys (inaudible)?


PATIENT: No, I...you know, it's just a bad...it's a bad habit. It's not (inaudible) to him so... And my girls would be the same way if I don't start thinking. But he does not do that to the children because his mother does...does that. He wouldn't think of doing that to him. But I'm something else. I'm another kind of animal. And since I've already grown up, he doesn't have to worry about how I'm going to turn out, I guess. And he really doesn't give me very much thought. You know? It doesn't occur to him that maybe I have feelings and doubts and it's like when we first got married I think I was the stronger one. And now I'm so much weaker. It's taken quite a while. I will say that.


THERAPIST: (inaudible) I'm as fragile as he sees the kids (inaudible) 00:40:59 


PATIENT: Well, now I am but I don't believe I was but it's like his self confidence is growing and where he's getting it is from me. Some sort of leach or something. 


THERAPIST: Sort of like he feeding off of you. 


PATIENT: Yes. 


THERAPIST: Like taking away your substance; growing at your expense. (quiet from 00:41:31 to 00:42:40)


PATIENT: I guess I can't really help it. I'm just going to have to be stronger. But how do you get your own...I mean how do I build up self confidence? I have to stand up to him so it's another vicious circle. And I'll never be strong any other way until I can at least stand up to my own husband. I just keep hoping he'll change. 


THERAPIST: Because you can't? 


PATIENT: Yes, I can but it would be so much easier if he was getting better while I am. I really (inaudible) feel much better; outside in the big world. (inaudible) But I mean, I don't...like right now, it doesn't even bother me but like...that I was used today for a taxi. 


THERAPIST: I'm not sure what you're saying. 


PATIENT: Well, you know, like my friend...


THERAPIST: No, wait. I understand how you were used but I'm not sure what you're saying about...


PATIENT: (inaudible) okay, so she used me; I'll use her sometime. You know? Like when I'm coming here and I'll just say okay, you take care of the kids. And I figure it will probably all even out. If I don't have to feel like I'm the only one being put upon. 


THERAPIST: Yeah. If you can give as much as you get.


PATIENT: Yeah. But I feel so...I don't want other people to be baby sitting around when my husband could come home and do it. And he needs to do it. 00:44:43


THERAPIST: He needs to do it.


PATIENT: Yeah because they need him every once in a while. I mean, they're down there with the same bunch of kids and it would be nice if Daddy was there because he's the...the kingpin in our family and it's nice always to show off and say I've got a daddy and you don't.... But I think I (inaudible) I'm going to have to use the resources available. 


THERAPIST: You sound different to me right now than you sounded earlier....clear (inaudible) like I can't pin it down either. 00:45:32


PATIENT: Earlier when?


THERAPIST: Today.


PATIENT: Today? 


THERAPIST: Yeah. 


PATIENT: I felt very depressed when I came in here; like everybody was against me, as usual. And I don't feel that right now. I feel like well, Jessica's out for herself. I mean, that's just so obvious and I used to think that she was just the most perfect person. But I don't know why I should expect her to be any better than anybody else that was in our building. I mean...


THERAPIST: They're all (inaudible) themselves. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, they're actually...I think I'm just too much the other way but it's not for the reason that I'm generous which I've always thought. 


THERAPIST: It's because you can't...you don't have the guts to assert yourself. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I can't say tough (inaudible) you don't have any food and I do. And I think I'll just have to start thinking of my family. Everybody else is thinking of theirs. (inaudible) willing to say well, I'll loan you some money. You know, I've had two people offer me money when things are tough; when you don't have any groceries in the house, which is kind of an easy thing to give if you've got it. Myself, I'd much rather them say I'll watch your kids while you come over here; they say I'll pay the baby sitter while you come over here. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) takes some sort of consideration.


PATIENT: You know, I used...when my girls napped, I used to like to take a nap too, but instead I would do this baby sitting for all of my friends who wanted to go out. When my kids didn't get their nap, I didn't get a nap; there was no quiet time in out house because I would always be giving something to them. But these people in my building, if their children take a nap, then they take a rest period, then they don't want to help you out. And they're probably happier about it than I was when I would disrupt the whole family, it aggravated me that I was so stupid to do it. 


THERAPIST: So, they're happier being selfish then you were trying to do the right thing. 


PATIENT: That's right. And you get kind of tired being...


THERAPIST: The patsy. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Kicked around. And it's not even...people aren't even doing it to be, you know...intentionally, I don't think. 


THERAPIST: They're doing it...I'm hearing you say they do it because I....


PATIENT: I'm willing to be kicked around, so kick her. 


THERAPIST: But, no...I thought you were...no. Even more than that it's like I'm willing to be the doormat and nobody...of course, you wipe your feet on the doormat. You don't think about...you don't say well, the doormat so you might as well wipe your feet on it; it's just there. But they don't even...I thought (inaudible) they don't even know they're doing it sometimes. 


PATIENT: Well, I mean, they're not...yeah, that's probably the same thing I was going to say in a different way.


THERAPIST: What were you going to say?


PATIENT: (inaudible) Yeah, like they don't even...you know, it never occurred to them that that might not be the most convenient time. I have a lady get really mad at me when I took the phone off the hook when the girls were sleeping and I was sleeping. I was trying to call you. I wanted you to baby sit. She just got furious. You know, and I never took the phone off the hook again in case she wanted me to baby sit. I mean, it aggravated me that she got so mad. I mean, it's my phone; my house; my children. 00:50:03


THERAPIST: (inaudible) totally unreasonable but on the other hand, you just knuckled under. 


PATIENT: I never say no, you know, unless I'm going to be out of town. If I have five kids, I'll still take the 6th one to baby sit. When you just....you can't even handle it. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) you don't know how to draw the line (inaudible) Like you don't know when (inaudible) 


PATIENT: No. I can say no to my own family but I can't to other people. Just like, you know, you can be nice...(inaudible) say that you're supposed to be nice to your family first and then...I'm nice to other people and rotten to my family. I can sit here and say I'm not going to do that but it's really going to take a lot of practice. After years of doing...like the other day, I came home from here and this woman was having such a terrible time with her children so I said well, why don't you let me keep them while you go to the grocery store. They're really brats. They really are bad news kids and it was...my husband had to go to school at 5:00 o'clock and so I could hardly slap a sandwich on for him. I mean that's unreasonable. He should have had a better meal and she should have had a better meal and she should have taken her own rotten kids but she did it them...to the store with her and you know, she didn't get home until 7:00 o'clock. I mean, like that...I mean, I realize she's probably just delighted to get away from the little brats but I thought...you know, like you go to the store and somebody's baby sitting for you and you come home and you don't fiddle around. 


THERAPIST: Okay. 


PATIENT: And I've thought the last time, I'm (inaudible) offer to sit with her kids. But that's such an extreme case of where she really takes advantage of you. But if everybody doesn't...isn't that extreme, it's going to be hard for me to...


THERAPIST: Yeah. When they're that extreme you can sort of put your foot down and really just feel indignant (ph). It's like most people don't do it quite that way...quite that...


PATIENT: No, they...yeah. (inaudible) when I offer, I wouldn't turn that down either. But I still wouldn't stay out that late. That isn't even what I...but if they're not going to be extreme about it, it's still...it's going to be hard to stop and think well, I have to get dinner for my husband or my girls have to go to bed or... you know, because I have this habit of talking before I think and habits are awfully hard to break...for me. 


THERAPIST: It sounds like you...or what you've been saying today (inaudible) in some ways a prisoner of habits. 00:54:09


PATIENT: Well, I think I've never broken one and I don't know if I can or....you know? And I'm kind of afraid to try for fear I can't and there I am a loser again...or still. Because I...you know, on occasion I have tried to stop smoking but I never really wanted to. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible) and under that a piece of dirt and salt (inaudible) That burns. 


THERAPIST: (inaudible or quiet from 00:55:14 to 00:56:21 then tape stops) 


END TRANSCRIPT
