TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (Sighs) Oh gosh. I botched my interview. 
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. 
CLIENT: The good news is that I have some people who are going to help me, and my boss seems to think that I didn't botch it as badly as I think I did. 
THERAPIST: Good. 
CLIENT: I just felt like I wasn't myself. 
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: Like I...so it was (inaudible at 00:00:31].7). I was stuck underground. You know. Like I wasn't late...
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: ...but just like all this other stuff happened. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Plus on top of it I was given some very specific advice which I tried really hard to follow. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh. 
CLIENT: And I think that it made me seem distant and disinterested. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: Which is less than more. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Don't talk so much. Try and just keep things as simple as possible, and so I think that when I was asked for that I—because I was keeping that in the back of my mind the whole time...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. 
CLIENT: ...I think I wasn't really myself. 
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. 
CLIENT: And so I am sort of embarrassed that...I've never had that kind of thing happen really. Especially cuz I got nervous. I really wanted to do this.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: And so we'll see. I've talked to a couple of management people who said they would call just to touch base and to let them know that if they probably didn't get the same read on me that I really am.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:01:27.3]
CLIENT: So we'll see. I hope so. So I could really use...
THERAPIST: Yeah. It sounds like um it could be great if it came through. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So, but...like I said that would be really, really helpful. I just need...I need to stop making that long commute. So, um...oh gosh. I have just been struggling with a lot of internal stuff. Mostly just partially feeling overwhelmed but mostly not really wanting to do much of anything. Like not really wanting to...I'll get out of bed. I'm not spending the whole day in bed or anything like that, but that whole concept of okay, so I could be doing something like this, but really I don't want to, and let's see if I can get away with no doing it, ya know? And (pause) sometimes it's really turned out for the best. But boy it just...ya know I mean pretty much it makes it so that my life's pretty boring and pretty unfulfilling. 
THERAPIST: Is this kind of apathy? 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's been a really big apathy.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:02:48.3]
CLIENT: I mean I've been mostly sleeping. Like yesterday I went to sleep when I got home and then I got back up this morning at 5, so I got 12 hours of sleep. Normally if I get 12 hours of sleep there's a nap in the middle of the day that counts toward that whole thing but not like 12 hours of sleep. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Um, so I've just been kind of really not wanting to...if I don't...if I...I mean I'll...if I have to be awake, ya know I haven't really wanted to do too much of anything. I just don't like that. But at the same time, ya know...I just feel emotionally exhausted and so like trying to get more done than I really can seems sometimes more than I can really handle if that makes sense. Trying to do anything additional is sometimes more than I can handle in terms of the planning. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) Like you're so overwhelmed it's hard to fight being overwhelmed to get things done. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:04:04.0]
CLIENT: So (pause) and um, yeah that's pretty much the way I felt a lot lately. So (pause) I am trying very hard to be...at least at, ya know, at work or whatever trying to be you know as social as possible, but to be honest I, I really don't want to, and I feel like there's something really fake about it, but at the same time I just...like when people like oh, you look so sad. What's going on? Like I don't even want to...like I don't know you well enough for you to care and boy I don't have enough time to explain it. 
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. 
CLIENT: And so (pause) it's just it makes me not want to very much talk to people and sort of have some sort of friendship with 'em, ya know cuz there's just so much going on. Ya know I just (pause) (sighs) I love my husband very, very much but it is not my job to make sure that his life is regulated as well as it could be, but yet if I don't do that, then everything goes to hell, ya know. And at the risk of sounding like I'm being very condescending, or I can't even think of the word right now for this, it's more like...I really don't mean this, but his life is better if he has a schedule like a toddler or an infant has. Like, ya know, okay so if you leave the house at the same time then everything's going to be okay and this and like because if for some reason either he takes me to (inaudible at 00:06:14].7) or drives me to work or like ya know different times...ya know doing this, what usually happens is at some point something happens and he acts out and he feels terrible about himself and then like the day gets wasted pretty much. Or occasionally I will call to let him know I'm coming home for the day and I will wake him up. And I mean we all have those days. Those are those one-off days that happens but this happens a lot. 
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [0:06:40.1]
CLIENT: And so (pause) I cannot control his behavior. I can't regulate this at all, but at the same time I also know that he needs a push to do this, and in the past when like one of us needed somebody else to remind someone to do something, we always have. But this is just getting to be harder than I can handle, ya know? I have never really wanted to control his behavior or even anything like that. It's just like the whole thing is okay, so we'll both leave the house at the same time. That kind of thing. But (pause)...and maybe he was seeing things kind of skewed. Like, ya know, maybe he sees it as he's the person trying to get me out the door in the morning so he can get his life done maybe, but it's just...I don't know. It's just frustrating. (pause) It's especially frustrating when like, ya know, when I was done from work yesterday he was done too apparently at 3 P.M. and then he came and watched me sleep most of the evening. It's like could you put some dishes in the dishwasher or something like that. It's just like he turns off unless somebody's driving his action. It just makes me feel so bad because I don't want to be that person. I want him to be himself. Ya know?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [0:08:31.8]
CLIENT: And it's just...I feel like I'm being forced into being something that I'm not and that...I've met many people who...especially like in the S-Anon world who really want to control their spouse, their behavior, everything like it. 
THERAPIST: Sorry, now what was that?
CLIENT: Oh, that's the sexaholics anonymous. 
THERAPIST: Oh. 
CLIENT: Like the spousal groups that they have to support that. They want to know everything that they're doing. They want to control them this and that. And they're like...and it's part of like I don't really understand but this is a creepy dynamic to control their behavior and so I feel like I'm sort of being guided down this road, but I don't really (sighs)...the other day he came to me before I said anything at all and he said I was having trouble acting out, this and that...and I said okay, great. I'm so glad you told me. I'm not thrilled about it, and emotionally I'm still hurt about it, but I wasn't like...this was not an incident and it wasn't like a big thing. He told me, ya know, and I can get on with my day. And (pause) I feel like (sighs) (pause) I just feel like I have to help him with everything otherwise he just doesn't function, ya know? Or at least most of his functions revolve around in his mind taking care of me, ya know. Like he's like oh, well I'm gonna pick you up after your therapy. And I'm like well that's okay, thanks. What are you doing otherwise, ya know. And he's like oh, I'm done. Okay. Done. Is there really a word done in research really? But maybe tired, time to go home, but not done. And so it's like I don't know if he's seeing this as ya know that kind of thing or what, but it's rather frustrating because it's like I don't want to be that person, but at the same time I have a natural sense of organization that he does not and he has been so bright that he's been able to get as far as he can without it, but every time somebody forces him to try and get organized, it never lasts ya know. And so it's kind of...and when all is said and done, I really don't care how his files are organized or the fact that his bag is full of papers or anything like that. I just want him to get his act together though. And self-regulate this kind of thing because I really feel like it would make him feel better, ya know? (pause) I don't know. It makes me sad to know that...it makes me really sad to know that, that ya know that his...that there's so much of his life he missed out on and he has never picked up those big skills to do it, but at the same time it's like I don't think anyone ever really taught me how to plan my day out either I don't think, but maybe I just picked it up by osmosis. I don't know. (sighs) (pause) And don't get me wrong. I have my moments of extreme disorganization. Like extreme. But I don't know, just...it seems like sometimes his disorganization is a way to hide who he is. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [0:12:27.9]
CLIENT: Cuz it's like, ya know, you can't actually discover because all of his folders on his desktop like are random things and like things are so disorganized that you can never really filter through who he is, and like that's sort of like a reality of life. I mean I know he is as a person, but it's so weird, ya know? I don't know. (pause) I told him that ya know when I was in here last time I was talking about jealousy and things like that and how when all was said and done no matter what that he finds out that's who he is, that I'm just thrilled. I mean I'm not thrilled about him becoming...if he really ever became a jealous person, but if he just got in touch with his emotions and finds out who he is and being true to himself, and that's really true, ya know? I think that these little things like, ya know, in being disorganized or this or that really wouldn't bother me as much if I knew that they were really who he is. Ya know what I mean? If he's being true to himself and he can feel comfortable with that. Ya know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm, yeah. [0:13:43.5]
CLIENT: But he's not. He's really not comfortable with who he is. He's not thrilled when people are proud of him, and he's especially not thrilled when he does things incorrectly and (pause) I mean I even told him I'm kind of looking forward to seeing like these things in your life. Like I may not like them at the time but it's like it's trying something new. I'm going to see these feelings you have that, ya know, that have been socially acceptable in your life pre-me and this and that. And I'm trying to be really...I'm trying so hard to be as supportive as possible but ya know after so many years you get kind of bitter about it, ya know. It's like, ya know, that's part of the reason why I never wanted to go to couple's counseling is because I just don't want to sit down and have a okay, so let's talk a little bit about like communication, and like yeah, I was communicating effectively for 10 years. Now I'm not because I'm burned out and bitter. So like I don't need to be...ya know it's not necessarily true but I feel like I gave everything that I had and now I just kind of want to be pissy for a while about it, ya know? I want to be like okay, so I realize that this is not...talking to you about this will achieve nothing, therefore I'm just going to not waste my energy and do something else, ya know?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [0:15:04.5]
CLIENT: And I know that's not productive and it's not going to do anything, but at the same time it's just, what do you do when you've done all the right things and still the re...you know you've done all the right things and you're sort of towing the line on being the...doing (sighs)...playing by the rules and then nothing happens, ya know? I'm not especially one of those people like it's ah ha, I've been playing by the rules and you haven't. You know I deserve an extra gold star. You know a little bit, but not like...I know people who are really like that. Like people are mad that like they have been paying their mortgage and they're not bailed out kind of people. And so, but at the same time it's like (sighs) (pause) I can envision myself just getting so pissed off because it's like ya know I don't (sighs) I really want some results from his end first before I'm willing to really make myself that emotionally vulnerable right now because I just feel like I make myself vulnerable way too much now. 
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [0:16:26.5]
CLIENT: (pause) I, um, yeah. At no time I don't really want to take away fun from him or like want to make his life more miserable or anything like that. It just seems like sometimes I get put in a bad personal, ya know. (pause) It's just exhausting. It's really exhausting. 
THERAPIST: And you're thinking about it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I just don't feel like I can...I'm being very vague and not very um (pause) (sighs)...I'm not describing very well how I'm feeling but...
THERAPIST: I think it's hard for you to talk about and feel comfortable and like you have a right to um (pause) like express your frustration about it. [0:17:43.3]
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, that is true, but usually my modus operandus for that is to elevate it to an academic level and use big...ya know and use technical terms so that I cannot feel it. Well right now I'm just so exhausted that I can't even think of words that have more than one syllable, ya know? And it's not like it's a big deal that I can't. I just...even thinking about this is exhausting because it's a lot to deal with, ya know? (pause) I just wish I knew of the future, what it's going to hold, because that would make me feel like I could...whether or not it...I don't know. I don't think it will change the outcome but it'd make it a lot easier going day to day to have the certainty of knowing whether or not he is going to be able to get his act together in terms of that kind of stuff, ya know? So I could reduce expectations. 
THERAPIST: I see. [0:19:07.6] To know whether you should keep hoping. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Or not. 
CLIENT: You know, I (pause)...yeah. Or like I could just be like okay, so this is not going to happen and that's okay and I'm willing to go along with that, ya know. It's (pause)...one of the things I used to hate...hate about other people unfortunately is sort of coming to me which is the one thing...every discussion about one thing becomes a discussion about everything. Ya know what I mean? Like if like oh well, I'm talking about. I can't think of... [0:20:14.9]
END TRANSCRIPT
