TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: The following is brought to you in living color. Client Number 0426-002, UN Number 105, Interview Number 752, Tract B. Client Number 0426-002 Real Number 105, 7th Interview, Track B, Side 2.


PATIENT: Cool.


COUNSELOR: Well, not as cool as I'd like it to be but... 


PATIENT: Well it's actually floating. [On that?] (ph)


COUNSELOR: I don't have it.


PATIENT: Put it in.


COUNSELOR: I can get you one if you want one?


PATIENT: I'll go with Kenny (ph). It should last me about ten minutes.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Thank you. We have a new microphone today, too. (chuckling) You know it's really kind of a shame that you can't come here when you really need to come here. Because yesterday I was just so down in the dumps. I'm really quite a moody person. I didn't realize I was. You know I always thought I was very stable instead of what I really am.


COUNSELOR: And what you really are is like up and down, the roller coaster [overlapping voices at 0:02:31.8]... 


PATIENT: Yeah, like about every other day. It just is not, like when I went home Tuesday, I just, really I kind of said what I had on my mind to my neighbors, which was... 


COUNSELOR: To Jessica?


PATIENT: Yeah, which is so different. She said what...she apologized about five times for me having to call Jim home from work to babysit. And I said, "Well, you said...or asked me if they would be good?" And I couldn't guarantee that, so I thought I'd better have him home. She just...and then she apologized more and more. And then, and I just, I kind of let that all, it kind of felt good... [0:03:22.6]


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ...to kind of say what I really thought. I mean not, I wasn't really...I mean I could've been very brutal and say, "Well, I know you don't like my kids, so I won't even bother you." My husband however, thought I should try and be more gracious and bigger about it then.


COUNSELOR: So it sounds like you were moving in one direction very purposefully and it felt good to be moving in that direction?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And he was saying you should really be moving in that other direction?


PATIENT: Well, he said...that was a very good way to handle it. And then later on he said, "You know, it might be better to be bigger than she is." But I cannot, I'm not syrup, you know. He was, and I don't like people who are.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And that's what you would have to be to get over her, would be, "Well...I just don't like expect you to babysit for me all the time. I know you're so busy and blah, blah, blah."


COUNSELOR: Bring out the word marshmallow?


PATIENT: Yeah. But I mean that's what she gives to me and he thinks I could give that back to her double. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Like try to beat her at her own game.


COUNSELOR: Fill her with kindness?


PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckling) So yesterday I was just so upset because my daughter, who Jessica does not like, was visibly down in the dumps and very depressed, when I just wanted to go shake Jessica and say, "Look what you're doing to this four-year-old kid?" I mean, children and dogs...like know who likes them and who doesn't.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I don't think she probably knows that, like her tone changes when she speaks to Jennifer and she's...Jim and I were talking about it. Well, she has her hangups too and she's just so, her whole world is in this little boy, who is two and a half, and two and a half and four and a half, they don't mix generally, unless you have a...I mean, Jennifer is kind of a rotten little girl. [0:05:42.0]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And she's kind of out of the cute stage, and she's not all baby fat and gurgles like he is.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And she's comparing these two ages and Jennifer is coming up short.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:05:56.2]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. But I mean, she has her own good qualities. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And what this...it just, a lot of things gripe me about that, not only has Jennifer stopped bringing (ph) me and Jim, our friendship and everything, but see she really is phoney. And I used to just think that she could do no wrong. And it's like she really needs help (ph). (chuckling) And...like Jim said, "How are we expected to get well when we're living amongst these nuts?"


COUNSELOR: So what you saw as kind of sexiness before now, you see it like phoney acting?


PATIENT: Yeah. Well I mean, she is a very, I mean, everybody likes her. She has a very outgoing personality and etc., but she can cut you down and still appear so nice to everyone around, you know.


COUNSELOR: Like surgically? I don't know what you mean.


PATIENT: Well like, if like there are three women sitting together and Jessica is saying to this other woman, "Look how well Katie and Wes get along together. Oh, look at that, isn't that cute." Completely excluding me. And she used to do this to me and I just thought, "Boy...my kids are really great kids...here she is bragging on them."


COUNSELOR: Oh, and then now, in retrospect, as if she were later it hit you that what she was doing was freezing you out, left you out of the conversation?


PATIENT: Yeah. Because...and it's just so obvious that my children aren't mentioned...here are three of us together in a conversation and we're talking about Wes and Katherine and there are two little girls that aren't mentioned and it's so obvious. And there we see this other woman slipping into this same trap that I was in, and I think she's all together innocent.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I mean, she's just a very nice person. But if somebody brags about your kids then you do the same. Yesterday this little beast (chuckling) ran over her little girl's toe and she said to the little girl, "Don't cry." It's just, she doesn't want to hurt Jessica's feelings by saying, "Well, that was not a very kind thing of Wes to do." But I used to do that with my children too. "Oh, Wes bit you? Well, you be a big girl and don't cry."


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it's like, nobody's doing Anything for poor Wes.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: He's the one that's really...when he gets to be four and a half and he's still running over little girls feet and biting them and pinching them and all this stuff, he's not going to be very well accepted either and she's going to go around wringing her hands sort of. [0:09:01.0]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yes.


PATIENT: But I, what really gets me I guess is that I see it so clearly... 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:09:06.9]... yes.


PATIENT: ...and nobody else can see it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yes, and you can see, one thing you see so clearly is somebody else playing the role of [go through] (ph) [0:09:17.9] whatever that is, exactly the role you were playing.


PATIENT: Yeah. And it's, but I think, like they only have a year here and they're going to...like maybe subconsciously she's thinking, "I'll spend a year here and then I'll get my kids out of here."


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:09:37.1]... 


PATIENT: And then I think, yeah, I think Wes still reverts back to the way it was. She's not a very strong person. I mean, I don't think she'd get upset over, because [inaudible at 0:09:50.1]... (chuckling) very nice, easy going, nothing bothers her sort of person, even when her child, this thing ran over, I mean, she's not blaming either of them and if, I mean, she might be like that all the time. Whereas, either of...if my child had done that and I'd seen it done, it's, "So Sarah, don't do that to Wes, Oh, poor Wes."


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it's just, it's so turned around. Wes is never in the wrong. And if I stay upstairs, then Jessica will say, "You know, Jodie and I keep such a good eye on the children you don't even have to come down." Which makes you feel like (chuckling)... 


COUNSELOR: You're not wanted?


PATIENT: No, it makes me feel guilty because I'm not sticking my nose into it every time.


COUNSELOR: Oh, oh.


PATIENT: And what really makes me so mad about myself is when I'm down there, I am I know, punching (ph) the children like she would want me to, and half the time they don't need it and I'm still doing it. And it's not good for my girls to be, I mean, Wes hits them and I say, "Don't hit him." That's bad news...because they hit each other and I don't interfere, but it's just this little boy who is bigger than my three-year-old and he can't protect himself. (chuckling) If he's sick...I shouldn't even be there. And before she moved in everything was going very smoothly and they had fights down there but they worked them out themselves, and she's a great one to say that. Jessica will say, "Well, I believe in letting them work it out themselves." Except when Wes gets it.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And she's always telling me something that Jennifer has done, in a very nice way. I mean, she doesn't come up and say, "Oh, that brat of a kid..." or Anything.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. But it sounds that you kind of get the point, whether she does it in a nice way or not.


PATIENT: Yeah. And so I'm getting to be very defensive. And when the three...three women are out together, it's usually me that picks up my stones and goes home, because they think if, ostracize you so.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:12:34.0]... 


PATIENT: I mean, it's just such a conversation slowing between them, around me.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And it's just a very uncomfortable situation to be in, even though I know that she's building up this friendship...she's really working at it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, I mean, you can see her working at it because you're also to yourself seeing doubt and you started to pass over your, ignore her.


PATIENT: I would just like to ride above that and I have a very low opinion of women and I really thought that she was different, and then I find out that she's even worse because she's so sneaky about it. (chuckling) A lot of women could...like I don't know whether it's by nature or some wash and wear mothers, but they do, they back stab and they talk about everybody. I mean, I do the same thing. I don't usually get caught but I do it. (chuckling) And she's just such an artist, she's really quite talented. I mean, you could just see her in high school ostracizing some poor little person.


COUNSELOR: She sounds like the sorority school [inaudible at 0:13:55.9]... 


PATIENT: She does, doesn't she.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. [inaudible]... because I know what it does to you. It sounds like it makes you furious with her. So I'm not sure that maybe why you do [inaudible at 0:14:08.5]... like she doesn't get caught at it.


PATIENT: Yes, but I, but she's not happy. So...at first I thought, "Ghee, I'd just sure like to have that personality." Because like, she's so much fun to be around and a lot of fun at parties, and then, like in the last week I've seen, like she would tell me about her husband and her...like they had problems too, and she thought she wanted to come to therapy. And then the next day it was just the opposite...like, "Oh, they're sure good." And things are sure, everything was good, good, good. And it's like...I think she revealed too much of herself to me and she really doesn't want to be around me.


COUNSELOR: Well, like she feels exposed to you in some ways that make her uncomfortable.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And then that, I think that was sort of disparaged on Jodie.


COUNSELOR: Oh, oh, so that was, so it was her one way of escaping the closeness with you?


PATIENT: Right. And...I'd like to feel sorry for her, but it's so hard when it's your child that's really being... 


COUNSELOR: Hurt?


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, it was, she just broke out in tears like her heart was broken yesterday. And it's my fault too for being pushed by her.


COUNSELOR: So maybe you lose track of what you want to do and you're either, of how you should then do something?


PATIENT: Yeah, I'm not strong enough to stand up to her and it's inconvenient to ignore her, because every time I go down the steps I see her. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Those steps just take you through a maze to be fucked (ph) with?


PATIENT: She's going to be there for two years.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And unless like some rotten kid moves in so that she can get on him for a while...I guess it's only going to be really another month.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: Then Jennifer will be in school and hopefully, by next year she can ignore him. Yeah, there's an age like, she not old enough to go off by herself or go off someplace else and play, and yet she doesn't want to...play with him. She's, she like to manipulate and he can manipulate the little girls...say, "We're going to play this game." And they all say, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." And Wes goes [making noise] (chuckling)... and it's so frustrating for her, and Jessica can't see that, because she's never had a four and a half year old Anything, she doesn't know how they work. And that's another thing that's kind of disappointing is that she's not very... [0:17:27.9]


COUNSELOR: Sympathetic?


PATIENT: No. Or even open minded about other children's problems.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like that all she can tell is, you only need, the only person she's interested in, that she has Any rapport with is Wes, period.


PATIENT: Yeah. And so that must be a very sad thing too.


COUNSELOR: For?


PATIENT: For her.


COUNSELOR: Certainly if this has to always lead to you?


PATIENT: Yeah. But when I...I can say to that, that she really has kind of a rough life too, but when she starts on my kid it doesn't matter. I mean, rough life or not, I've never picked on Any little kid because of Anything.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So it's sort of in the abstract you can be understanding but when you see it happening before your eyes.


PATIENT: Well, I can't really be understanding. I mean, I can say to myself, "She really has her own hangups."


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it's coming out on Jennifer, and when I'm there I want to just shake her.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But instead I leave.


COUNSELOR: [You need to that bracing, huh?] (ph) [0:18:43.7]


PATIENT: Yeah. And we were talking about last night...like maybe I could get in the car and take the girls away. But that's kind of not solving the problem really. I mean, I can't be away from her all the time. But I just think...like if she would stay tough I could be, I'll never really have the respect that I once had for her.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: Or even...like care for her like I used to. So the change has to come from me.


COUNSELOR: Because she's not going to [inaudible at 0:19:42.6]... 


PATIENT: No, she's not going to. Not at least until she's in the same situation and by that time it will be too late. And another thing that happened last night, honestly she was just full of goodness (ph). Maybe I'm sitting around looking for it? I said, maybe I'm sitting around looking for things that she does...obviously, she's always been like this.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And it's really kind of a shame that I'm beginning to realize. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: You mean ignorance is bliss?


PATIENT: Right, right. And because she was such a good person. Because Jim and I are the only ones that see the same things...it might be both of us that are out of it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But last night the three of us were sitting out there and she comes out and said, "Jodie, would Richard like to play baseball? Rob and Dan are here and they need another one." And I didn't say Anything because Jim had already gone, but they had already asked Jim to play baseball with them. And...it's just like it was so deliberate, so intentional to leave me or my husband out of it. And then she comes back ten minutes later, she's, "Oh, Jessica, I didn't even think, would Jim like to play?" [inaudible at 0:21:44.1]... I said, "No, he wasn't home." But it's just such a fake to me. I can't believe that when I'm sitting there that she wouldn't remember my husband or know that I had one. There's lots of these little tricks the last week. [0:22:17.0]


COUNSELOR: Sounds like when you think about her over the last week, like everything she's done is either iced you out or sort of frosted out at your children?


PATIENT: Yeah. But when I've...like I'm the only one there or if the kids are getting along, it's okay. If there's one little spat it starts in again.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:22:41.6]... 


PATIENT: You know, things are going along fine...she's very pleasant to me and using her old charm. But I still can't, I can't go back to being the same way I was with her...I just either get moody or get up and leave or do something.


COUNSELOR: You're not beguiled Any more at her charm?


PATIENT: No, but I think she must think that I'm really going downhill or something because, I haven't ever been this moody I don't believe. And if I don't like somebody they usually know it. And I think you really should have a little art of hiding your feelings or something.


COUNSELOR: So are you saying, like right now you don't?


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: If I don't like somebody it's so plain...unless I really have no feeling at all for them and then they'd probably never know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Because most of the people like that really don't give a darn whether I'm dead or alive...and then that way, if you've never really liked them, it's much easier just to ignore them or accept them because, I don't know why, because they don't mean Anything I guess.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But if you really like someone and then you...you're kind of awakened to it, it's so disgusting. Like it's, you're embarrassed that you have been taken in, you with all this intelligence and etc.


COUNSELOR: Feel like a damn fool?


PATIENT: Right. Here I was chasing her like a little puppy dog or something.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, trotting along worshipfully [inaudible at 0:25:10.1]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. And nobody else will ever know unless they have a child that doesn't get along with her child. So I feel like I'm the one that's out of step because everyone loves Jessica. "Isn't she clever." And, "Isn't she cute." And I can sit there and say... (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it's like you've been sitting under that [inaudible at 0:25:39.0]... of reality nobody else can see because they would think I was crazy?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And I'm sort of trapped with my own perceptions of her and my own dislike for her. Nobody else is going to verify it.


PATIENT: No. Not unless they have the same situation. And then it's like, for me it's like sour grapes.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:26:05.9]... because you've lost her [inaudible]... 


PATIENT: Well, I mean, never had her. When you think about it, Anybody that's like that, that can just tune off a friendship... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah [inaudible at 0:26:20.5]... working toward that much of a union.


PATIENT: Well, your friendship wasn't. I mean, whether she is or not, is... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but your friendship was dust [inaudible at 0:26:35.2]... 


PATIENT: And I met another girl like that only she didn't affect me. I mean, another couple, a whole, and I think, "Gheeze, is this what Central Park is...a bunch of phonies?" I mean, like the other couple, until they...it's like going through rush week in a sorority or a fraternity, until they find out that you aren't going to do them Any good...and then they just drop you.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like the honeymoon created when you're sort of like, looked over and inspected and appraised, then they make a decision.


PATIENT: Yeah, well they're not really worth inviting...so while we were in their set for a while and now we're dropped. And that...I supposed it does bother me in a way but it's not as bothering as Jessica, because she lives there and it, like Jan doesn't give me the time of day and I mean, on the surface everything is fine but... 


COUNSELOR: Between you and?


PATIENT: Jan.


COUNSELOR: Jan?


PATIENT: But it's not...everybody's amiable and, but I'm afraid that if this continues it's going to pull her husband in, and now my husband is already turned off...it's going to be a big... 


COUNSELOR: I don't understand [inaudible at 0:28:29.7]... if it continues, your animosity toward Jan?


PATIENT: No, to Jessica. Okay, so the relationship between Jan and Joe and Jim and I... 


COUNSELOR: Is?


PATIENT: ...nothing ventured, nothing gained.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: Because I mean, we were in their set for a while and we weren't good enough.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And we know that, that we don't have the money to keep up with the [inaudible at 0:28:56.6]... or the apartment and...but we're really happy we're, not really happy (chuckling) but you know what I mean? But it doesn't bother us that like, we didn't come up to their standards... 


COUNSELOR: That's okay with you?


PATIENT: ...and so they dropped us, yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So, we weren't attached to them, they weren't attached to us and that's the way it goes. But with Jessica and Ethan (ph) and Jim and I...we played bridge back and forth and...we're just around each other so much.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.


PATIENT: But I think that if she continues to treat Jennifer like a sore or something, this already has angered Jim, when he saw her like she was yesterday.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: She wouldn't go out and play and she wouldn't smile or Anything. But he's going to be drawn into it and he's libel to say something because this, is his little princess.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And then it's going to be Ethan and Jessica against Jim and Jessica [inaudible at 0:30:12.7]... 


COUNSELOR: [You have to stay strong.] (ph)


PATIENT: I don't know. But the thing is, we're the ones that are going to be ostracized because everyone loves Ethan and Jessica, or Jessica at least, Ethan's just a nice fellow.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. He is? So to have a fight, you know in advance you're going to wind up the one hurt.


PATIENT: The loser.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Right. And it's not even going to, I mean, like it's still not going to do Anything for Jennifer.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: Because she's going to be hurt even worse than probably Sarah...it will be like that Ross Banar (ph), because of my [inaudible at 0:31:00.0]... (chuckling) something like that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So, I don't know, it probably really would never come to that, but if it did, I know their answer (ph).


COUNSELOR: And the answer is, you two are on pretty tenuous ground?


PATIENT: Well, we're the newcomers.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. The outsiders?


PATIENT: Yeah. Well plus, we're neither one of us that much fun to be around. I mean, you can understand why they would care for them more than us.


COUNSELOR: Because you are just blah?


PATIENT: No, we're not very witty or Anything, it's we're not people you'd want to have at a party to make the party.


COUNSELOR: You don't shine?


PATIENT: No. We all have our little something. [0:32:00.0]


COUNSELOR: There's a couple that you don't really [inaudible at 0:32:03.2]... 


PATIENT: No, not really. Well, I guess we do, we're [inaudible at 0:32:16.0]... - Now what happened to this? - We really do, it's just that thing you would pick out. Well, I mean...some people are just a lot of fun to be around and others are okay, we're okay.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But nothing to write home about.


COUNSELOR: You're not so bad, just the second rung, you're second rate?


PATIENT: Yeah. We couldn't carry a whole party by our witty antic dotes and stuff. And that's the way most of the people entertain, it's not a couple to couple basis, it's the whole crew.


COUNSELOR: So you, for instance, take your turn and so should they (ph)?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Some people take larger turns [as if that was the same?] (ph) [0:33:12.0]


PATIENT: Well, like Ethan and Jessica are the sort of people that you would invite to a party if you didn't know for sure if it was going to be fun (ph) enough, because they would, she would come in and liven it up. [And I saw her the same way.] (ph) [0:33:33.0] If you ever have a party call Jessica. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Oh, call her?


PATIENT: They're a lot of fun, Ethan plays the fiddle and you could have a ball. It's just that...like there's no way, it's not a good way socially to stay apart. If they have a party they're going to feel like they have to invite us or, and the same for me too, unless...like it's a class party or something. We could have a lot of those. So we're just going to have to make some different arrangements. You know, like keep the children separated as much as possible, because that's where...I forget how really mad I am, it's not recurring day after day.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I mean, like today Wes has been gone all day and there hasn't been a fight out there, and so everybody's, I mean, I feel much relieved that I haven't done Anything wrong with my children today. Like I haven't punished them when they couldn't pass standards (ph) or Anything. I feel much better about myself today because I was really mad at myself. So that's the way that problem will be solved. But I think I'm going to be just a little bit more careful the next time I am guilty of hero worship.


COUNSELOR: You're not going to let yourself get suckered in so easily by amiable peers?


PATIENT: Yeah. Maybe...like, well Jim never was, that kind of gripes me too, because I usually can pick out people better than he can.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:36:10.1]... talent of yours?


PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. And he said he doesn't...like I'd say, "She's really great, isn't she?" And he said, "I just can't believe Anybody's like that." You know?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So he had her pegged all the time?


PATIENT: Yeah. So it's not as much a surprise with him.


COUNSELOR: But that doesn't really leave you feeling like Jessica's [inaudible at 0:36:35.7]...? Not only were you taken in by her but he wasn't?


PATIENT: I don't know why he wouldn't be, when everybody else in the world in Central Park is?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Why because it's going to be a lucky day [inaudible at 0:36:55.7]... Well, I guess it was after he found out about her mother that he said, "She can't be like that because of her mother." (chuckling) He's using his behavioral science. And if you know she's this important that I would spend an hour talking about her.


COUNSELOR: How does that make you feel?


PATIENT: Kind of a waste of time. But...like I have this need for somebody to see it my way, and I know that's really dangerous.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: You know, it's unfair to people I bring into it because, maybe they would have gone along very happily...never looking at my side of it. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the neighbors around there. If I cannot control my mouth and I'll say...she's really depressed my daughter, and Jennifer's not all to blame.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:38:23.8]... 


PATIENT: I think it's... 


COUNSELOR: [Unfair to Jessica if you say that?] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah. Well, unfair to the person I tell...they could have, everything could have been very smooth and it could be between Jessica and I and not drag... 


COUNSELOR: Oh, that you're sort of like, gumming up, like Katerine, like Jodie, you're feeling very happy being with Jessica and you're like the snake in the garden of Eden or something?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yes?


PATIENT: Yeah. Only Jodie would not ever be the one I would tell, she's getting the good treatment.


COUNSELOR: She wouldn't believe you in a million years?


PATIENT: No. (chuckling) No, she, well, she might, but I don't think she'd ever admit it.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:39:12.6]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. But I...I can't believe like I'm the only person on, around...that she's (ph) convinced as they really are.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And other people must be a little bit of it or maybe all of it but they don't let it bother them like it bothers me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So maybe it isn't that you're more protective, it's just that somehow you will be hurt, I mean, like more vulnerable you think?


PATIENT: Yeah. Well, the only way I can think of is that I have a need, I think I have a need to be liked, and it hurts me when she doesn't like me or my child.


COUNSELOR: Other people thinking [inaudible at 0:40:34.9]... they've decided not to be that wounded?


PATIENT: I think they're probably not that wrapped up... 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ...it's more their family and they come first, then after that their friends.


COUNSELOR: Yes. Other priorities [inaudible at 0:40:58.2]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. Well, really I haven't had a husband, until we have some crisis...and then we stick together.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. But that must feel like that you [inaudible at 0:41:22.4]... no matter how long you have?


PATIENT: (chuckling) Well, I never thought about that. Yeah.


COUNSELOR: I hear you say that a lot. I'm with someone, really I haven't had Anyone to love [like you love Richard.] (ph) [0:41:34.5]


PATIENT: Or just to talk to.


COUNSELOR: [To be human with?] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah. But I find that like the more I talk to Jim the more he talks back...so maybe I haven't given that a chance or had Anything really to say, and really thought about much of Anything...about how I felt. I really have never thought about it. I'm either mad or not...I don't feel moody or I don't say to myself, "Are you moody?"


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: You know?


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And I've been thinking a little more about myself lately and how I was doing in these [inaudible at 0:42:34.4]... later.


COUNSELOR: And discovering things about you that were [inaudible at 0:42:41.9]... 


PATIENT: And that he didn't know and that he really is interested in...like I didn't give him sole credit.


COUNSELOR: Yes. It was like he always existed, if only he had known but he had no way of knowing?


PATIENT: Yeah. People must do that a lot, for sure. [The things in the chair, I mean the chair is disfigured.] (ph) [0:43:19.3] Now book (ph) certainly relieved me, although I...I'm not really pleased that I am a statistic, but it sure was good to read.


COUNSELOR: And you're a guest [inaudible at 0:43:43.4]... 


PATIENT: I made a loud effort (ph) with which we, because like I think when I was at the age for asking questions...like my mother got that book and thought I'd ask some questions. I wasn't all that interested in...even where babies came from and how that got there. And it's kind of, it is very informative for me, because by the time I was ready to get married I thought I was too old to ask those questions... 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ...and people would think, "Well she should know the answer." So I'm going to have one of those books around and [inaudible at 0:44:25.4]... (chuckling) Now for my girls...so that if they have a problem asking me, it's going to be at least available. I like that book.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like there have been a lot of questions for you?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: It's just where it has been locked up inside you, you felt [inaudible at 0:44:52.8]... about... 


PATIENT: Well and you think...like you hear a lot of old wives' tales and you say you don't believe them but maybe you do, sort of. Yeah. And I didn't have a very, I didn't have a warm, understanding doctor when I had my girls. It was in and out...before you had your time to formulate a question. So it's really good for me...to read, even the fallacies and myths.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. I've had a funny feeling about, or I'm having a funny feeling as you're telling me this, that there's something like I had a feeling that there was more to it than sex though. And I thought you said to me, "Well, like...I can know this, I could know objectively that masturbation wouldn't affect climax..." But that might be you need the effect, "...but I have feelings that the facts can't touch." At least I thought that was what she was saying last night. I guess maybe not was what she was saying. Maybe like... 


PATIENT: Oh, you mean from Tuesday?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Yeah. Until I read that book, and I said...like I have no doubts now, because there are so mAny women, I mean, there's quite a large percentage of them. And like it has nothing to do with your intelligence.


COUNSELOR: Which has nothing to do with, which are a large number of women [inaudible at 0:46:58.3]... or don't reach climax?


PATIENT: No, the women that masturbate.


COUNSELOR: Oh, oh.


PATIENT: It doesn't mean you're from a particular type of...your IQ has to be... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...this high before you get to it. I don't...what I mean.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But it's not a set group.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I mean, it has like three different groups, high school, one year of college or college graduates or something like grade school, high school, something... 


COUNSELOR: [overlapping voices at 0:47:39.4]... shortcuts like you were saying, it's something like, you can be pretty good or all right in that region (ph), like no meanness (ph)?


PATIENT: That you have to fit into a little group and these are the only people that do.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So, I was very much relieved that even though a number of women do masturbate that they don't all have to be morons or something.


COUNSELOR: Sometimes awful people don't?


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, married women, divorced and single, it's all there.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Is why he did that study. (chuckling) He'll never know. Well, that whole book just sort of relieves you even, because Jim would never let one of those books, not one of 'those' books, but like, the books that come out in paperback and I don't even...like I can't even say a title, but they are written to make money. And so if you read one of those, you don't believe it. But he didn't even want them in the house because he thought they were written to make money and he didn't want to be suckered into buying one of them. And it's really a shame that we didn't go to a book store...I think we could have saved a lot of strife if we'd have had one from the night we were married.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: Because...we thought it's really great that like, these university students have to read this before they're even...I mean, like it's not because you're planning on getting married or Anything, it's because you're interested in it. So I of course use the book. I took a course in marriage and family living after I was married and I never had such a bad thing in my life. It was just such an asinine course that it was pathetic. The instructor had his bright little casing (ph). [0:50:33.4] The only thing I remember about it is where there are the most men. (chuckling) If the need arises, which university to go to or which state to go to if you're looking for a man. Go to Wyoming. (chuckling) I feel like you could, you'd go to Florida, I'd go to Wyoming. And it kind of angers me that I didn't have that book or that maybe mAny other people don't either. I'd like to take it home and show it to my mother. She probably has questions she'd like to... 


COUNSELOR: One reason possibly she feels, I mean, when you were talking about the Wyoming and Florida course, probably left you feeling like let down...like let down by whoever taught that course and let down by your mother.


PATIENT: Yes, I do. I feel very seeded (ph). Here and you look back and you think, "Ghee, I..." Well, I never really think of that and I just, but I've thought I had a happy childhood. But now I think, "Okay, you had a happy childhood but you were so ignorant of things that you'd really need to get along in life."


COUNSELOR: Like you weren't given the tools when they would've matter?


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, for say ten years or twenty even, you need to know a little bit about sex, a little bit. You need to know a lot about it if you're going to get married. And it wasn't even that it was taboo in our home to speak about it. It was, I never really gave a darn and nobody had the initiative...like to interest me. I think my folks thought that since I was brought up on a horse farm and saw all the horses being born and, that I knew all there was to know.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:53:09.0]... So what this really had is like neglect your malevolence (ph) and gave you credit for more knowledge than you had? [overlapping voices at 0:53:30.9]... 


PATIENT: Well, I kind of wonder though if they didn't want to talk about it. Or maybe they didn't know...after reading that book I wonder if my folks know what's going on.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I can remember saying something to my mother after we were married, and telling her that I had not climaxed and she said, "Well, just don't worry about it. I didn't for the first year." And then it was just by accident, and that's the way my mother always thinks, everything is going to turn out for the better or for the best, when...it never occurred to her to say, "Well, why don't you speak to someone about it?"


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I think she...like I feel like she let me down, but it had to be Jim that finally said, "Listen, you've got to get help or I'm leaving here." And there again, one can say, "Well, your mother is human." But it still doesn't help.


COUNSELOR: I'm curious that after being like, bumble along and that it should be kind of like you almost distantly will view this and say [inaudible at 0:55:01.0]... 


PATIENT: That's the way...like that's their philosophy. I mean, everything always turns out for the best. Well, I'll be damned, it does not! You know, like finally, ten years later I'm disagreeing with my folks. When I think about it, I was just very lucky to get out of high school not pregnant, as much as I knew about it. I probably wouldn't even have known if it had happened, at that age. And then messed around and wondered how.


COUNSELOR: Like you sound like a reasonable [inaudible at 0:55:57.3]... almost miraculous?


PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckling) Costly to have a few of those books around. I mean, maybe more girls would have been playing around but those that did get caught, I wonder if they knew how it happened?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: [Sometimes it means you're exciting when you can.] (ph) [0:56:24.6] But I knew my folks would be so ashamed...my father would have been because he has his image to uphold...I don't know what he would have felt about me or if he would have felt Anything.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I think my mother would have been [inaudible at 0:56:51.8]... But I mean, like that's the only reason I think, and besides the fact that the boys didn't probably know Anything either. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Yeah, but you were immature (ph), and you were in a position where you really could have been taken advantage of.


PATIENT: Yeah, if I'd have dated Anybody that knew the score. I really, I have all these, I said to Jim, "Well, maybe I have, well, so I call it the penis envy, because of my father." There's the man worth me being honest like.


COUNSELOR: There's a man what?


PATIENT: Worth meeting. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Your father?


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: I can see where you meant that as [inaudible at 0:58:00.9]... 


PATIENT: - Now, it's all right now. - 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: But, I had all these misconceptions about penises, because my father was so big and just I wanted to compare that to and I think my brother, who was like just...14, 15 and I guess, would be a little different in size. But my father is not one iota modest (ph), and he would come out of the bathroom with his hands in front of him. I don't believe he has ever taken a towel into the bathroom, in all the years I've known him, and I don't care who is there. And it really embarrassed you, like the first time Jim was there, he came out with the towel held up in front of him, his back exposed. Or the, when I was finally a woman and taking a bath and in he comes to brush his teeth, saying, "I won't look." You know and I wonder if at the time, I thought I was mad but maybe I was hurt...like... 


COUNSELOR: That he wouldn't look?


PATIENT: Yeah. What am I...some animal that you don't even want to look?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And it stuck in my memory so that, it 's kind of a humiliation I think.


COUNSELOR: That he didn't look?


PATIENT: That he didn't want to look or that he didn't think I was old enough to give me my privacy in the bathtub.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Both, so it sounds to me like both instances were... 


PATIENT: Yeah. Okay, if you're not going to look then at least get out. (chuckling) You know, and I'm so embarrassed with this washcloth, wondering where to cover, when indeed...there was nothing to cover, but... (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: [He really liked to but...] (ph) [1:00:11.8]


PATIENT: Yeah, he should have given me the...like this one small hope that there was something to cover or, I don't know what.


COUNSELOR: Well, let me try, I'm not sure of this. Wondered if maybe he should have given me either, should have given me the sense as a woman, either by treating me as if it were taboo or by [inaudible at 1:00:57.9]... desiring me or being curious or interested but... 


PATIENT: Not just, either one or the other, but could be so... 


COUNSELOR: Interested (ph)?


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, actually what he should have done is just stayed out, [but six weeks later] (ph) But it...I can even remember him saying, "Well, I'm not going to peek." You know, like... 


COUNSELOR: For heaven sakes!


PATIENT: Sakes, to a 40 (ph) year old...you're nothing but a child. Well, in his eyes I was, but in mine...I was a little more than that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Did it make you wonder, to think he might have?


PATIENT: It made me wonder whether I was worth it or not. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: Wait a minute, that's what I meant.


PATIENT: Yeah. I imagine it did because otherwise I wouldn't have...always thought about it. Not always thought about but I can recollect the whole thing.


COUNSELOR: Like maybe he's right and I'm wrong? Maybe I'm not a woman?


PATIENT: Yeah, possibly I did, only now I can see that he was clearly at fault.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: I mean, I was, I've told this story to Jim enough times and I mean, like I know he would not do the same thing. But when you're, I don't even know how old I was...in high school at least, when you just didn't, you're not supposed to be in the bathroom with another man, father or brother or Anybody.


COUNSELOR: I think there are [inaudible at 1:02:48.5]... feelings for you in there, just like, sort of like, being in the bathtub is like very confined or just precarious. Like being on a gynecologist's table and you're like, there you are and there isn't a hell of a lot you can do about it?


PATIENT: No, you're just so revealed because you can't get out and... 


COUNSELOR: Close the door or throw a towel around you?


PATIENT: ...close the door, right. You don't want to get the towel wet, for heaven sakes, you have to do like my father.


COUNSELOR: And let themselves, I don't know, now looking back at it, it's like considered like violating?


PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. I don't understand how Anybody in our family got out with one iota of modesty. But I can remember opening the door to the boys' room when my brother was putting on his shorts and how upset he was.


COUNSELOR: (phone ringing - short phone conversation) So you, [inaudible at 1:03:59.4]... 


PATIENT: No, I have very little.


COUNSELOR: But I thought you were saying though, that you were upset when you...?


PATIENT: Well, now I'm, modesty and privacy...are two different things. I have never been modest around Jim but I wouldn't go prancing nude around Anybody, I mean, I wouldn't come out of the bathroom if we had guests with just a towel.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Because it's embarrassing for everyone, and I've been through it and I know...what it feels like to be the one, the onlooker, the audience... 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ...and it's not, I mean, I just don't think I was ever embarrassed that my father was running around with a fig leaf on, so to speak. But it was so embarrassing for Jim the first time, because he's kind of hard (ph) on us about sex and he's much more modest that I am. I mean, [inaudible at 1:05:02.0]... isn't shameful to me if it's with your husband. But to him, he'd much prefer that we have shorts on.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 1:05:13.6]... 


PATIENT: Yeah. You getting much [inaudible]... 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 1:05:44.0] ... south of Florida and someone brought me a bigger size there.


PATIENT: I, that's what I could get for him.


COUNSELOR: Are you asking if there's a [inaudible at 1:06:02.3]... well, that it takes a [inaudible]... that it cuts?


PATIENT: Oh. Do you have to pay all that time?


COUNSELOR: No, but you can't buy a box of black and then... 


PATIENT: Oh. [inaudible at 1:06:18.5]... you have a big box so everybody else can [inaudible]... 


COUNSELOR: Bye. [audio fuzzes from 1:06:37.4 to 1:06:54.3]


END TRANSCRIPT
