*TEXT-PV010021  Wednesday 23 October 1968             3703 3634   34   35
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (4-minute silence) I was just thinking about the fact that today I had the feeling even before I came that I thought I was going to have nothing to say.  And anything that came into my mind while I, when I first came in, I just thought I, it wasn't going to go anywhere and I just didn't want to bother saying it.  And I also, before I came, felt more tired today than most days and generally I might be nervous about coming or in a way not want to come but I never have thought oh I feel so tired I just wish I didn't have to go; but today I was thinking that.  But then I began to wonder if every time I've come having nothing to say, it has followed the time when I've begun to get into things and that's almost like I'm withdrawing from it again.  Except on the days when I'm getting into those things, I could keep going on and on and on.  I suppose that's one reason why I find it more upsetting when I feel the way I did today, because it, it just seems like such a reversal after feeling rather free about getting into things.
ANALYST: When did you notice a reversal taking place, today or last night?
PATIENT:  No, I just, I hadn't really thought about anything I might want to say here and if I did yesterday, it hasn't remained in my mind.  And so just after a while when I had to start watching the time so I'd be sure I'd be on time that's when I began to think well, I don't even know what I want to say anyway.  And it's just going to be one of those awful days when I just don't have anything to say.  That and the fact that I hadn't thought of anything or noted it down in any way.  (Pause)
In fact, from, when time was up yesterday I was about to say something, and I don't recall now what.  And this often happens and again this surprised me because I remember once I said something about it to e and he seems to be able to pick up right where he left off and I find that it's very hard to remember.  Unless thoughts occur to me after I leave and then I make a note of it.  And, and I have to almost be sure to write them down, not just make a note in my mind or else I don't, I don't trust myself remembering unless I write it down.  Of course that's true of everything .  Sometimes one reason why I find teaching such a burden, because there are so many little things that keep occurring to you and there are so many things you have to collect information on and I just don't feel I'll remember anything unless I write every single thing down so it just becomes a colossal task.  And it's almost the same thing happening there as happens here when I haven't thought I had no —, anything I want to say, I just get so nervous about it, that my mind would just blank out and I don't start over.  I have to keep thinking now what is it that I noticed once or what was it I was talking about yesterday.  And it's the same way I used to be on tests sometimes too.  I tried to visualize again the notes in my mind the way they were, instead of just thinking about it fresh.  (Pause)
And I've been feeling the last 2 days I know I've been feeling rather upset about how I'm handling my teaching again.  I seem to go in cycles.  And part of the reason is that I don't right now anyway, feel at all spontaneous with the children and so then I'll tell myself well, it's because you don't feel well and I use it as an excuse.  But both days I've noticed that one of the main things that's upset me is when I have a few minutes with them, and there are so many things you can do, if I sit down afterwards and think about all the little things I could have done, I just have a million ideas.  But at the time all I can think of is, I wonder if I wrote anything else down in my lesson plan that I should be doing now or that I could be doing now.  So I never seize the moment and do whatever seems most appropriate for that time.  (Pause)
The other thing that made me very nervous about being here just when I came in, was again the kind of noise that I heard out in the lobby of a group of people who probably were having some kind of meeting, but it had a kind of carefree, happy tone to it as if they were all relaxed and enjoying themselves and it just seemed a contrast, sort of my feeling under a lot of tension.  (Pause) And I suppose I react to it because I do every time I hear it when I come, partly because I used to spend so much time both in high school and college just sort of sitting looking out a window, and watching people outside enjoying themselves and I was being so envious of them, but I never sort of threw myself out into life too.  I'd always sit back and watch them and then feel very sorry about the fact that I didn't feel the same way.  It was almost like I thought I could understand some secret they had if I watched them long enough.  (Pause)
Some reason, just thinking of myself then, made me think of the book "The Secret Garden" I don't know why.  I know I used to love it though.  There must have been something in it I found very revealing to me or comforting to me or something.  I think it might have been partly the fact that the boy being the invalid couldn't go out after something and something came after him all in a little walled-up pretty place and I suppose that's what I was hoping would happen to me.  I wouldn't have to go out but somehow, something would come to me within my own little world.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you think that this is a walled-up little place?
PATIENT:  I suppose I must, in a way.  (Pause) Because I know when I was waiting outside, I kept thinking that I was very anxious to come in so that I could sort of be away from hearing that.  (Pause) I think I probably have many mixed feelings about being here.  (Pause) But I was just thinking now that thinking about myself watching everybody else and trying to find out their secret and of course, now I can see the way with me and my, the fact that I couldn't get outside of myself or, or go halfway or sort of participate too.  I'd never call up friends and ask them if they want to do things.  I'd always wait for them to ask me and sometimes even then I wouldn't want to do it but now that whole feeling has gotten so much more intense because now e has to really make me agree to have people for dinner except very occasionally.  And very often friends will ask if I want to do something and I always find reasons why I can't.  And there are always other little things that I want to do for my job outside of school that I keep telling myself, if I can get that done then I'd be free to do something else.  And of course you never get all those things done.  (Pause)
And I guess every once in a while I start wondering how much they mean anyway, how much it's worth doing any of them, and then I won't let myself think about it.  In fact, today one of the things that I think was upsetting me most by the end of the day, was I had this feeling that there must be lots of little tasks for me to do but I couldn't think of any of them, I couldn't think clearly what they might be.  And this was very disturbing to me because I was very sure there must be some and that if I just had a list, and if even, if I knew I wasn't going to get to them, just the fact that I knew they were on a list would make me feel alright about it.  (Silence)
And the other thing that disturbs me when I'm in this type of mood is the way I, it seems like I get more like my mother then, because I, my attitude toward the children at school is sort of well you're at school to do certain things to learn certain things, and it's too bad if they're not fun, you're still going to learn them and I get very grim.  And I don't have any of the freedom to just have fun with them, which I can at times and while I'm being this way I know that I don't want to be this way, but I still am.  And of course then the contrast of the girl who is assisting me is even greater.  And so then that disturbs me too.  And I start trying to be critical of her and, and just goes around in a cycle and I, even if I'm aware of it, it seems to still be happening.  (Pause)
And since I've started to come here, I've been a little more aware of sort of the pattern, or not really the pattern yet, but the fact that I do go first, I'm feeling good about things and then I'm back being depressed and then I'm feeling good again.  I, and now I've just been trying to figure out what it is that seems to, probably there are a million things, but wondering first if there is any pattern.  Because it almost seems like I go several days feeling quite good about the way I'm coping and then I start being very depressed again for a while until I can't stand being that depressed anymore and somehow things work out and I start feeling good about them again.  (Silence)
And knowing that I use having little tasks and jobs as an excuse, really, to avoid doing other things that I might like to do but be afraid of doing makes me now wonder if my mother's being so busy in all her little committees and jobs and also she had everything that she did as a task while we were growing up, if that wasn't her way of escaping from being someone or doing things that she really would have wanted to do.  So I just wonder how social she really would have liked to have been now and my father too.  Because they used to always be very harsh on people who lived in communities where there were country clubs and by criticizing them they made themselves seem very superior, that they were above such trite kind of pleasure or some silly ways to spend their money and so forth.  And yet I almost, it seems to me that my father really toyed with the idea or, or at least was apologetic to us for the fact that we did not have coming out parties.  And I remember being amazed because from after the way they talked about country clubs, it just seemed without question that we would never be debutantes or anything like that and I had no desire to be — on the surface, but maybe underneath it all I did.  (Pause)
And I used to carry this to the extreme of, when I was in college I had a good friend who was in a fraternity that was known for drinking fairly heavily and so forth, and I used to have fights with him all the ti—, or arguments with him all the time about drinking.  Not that he did but just the reputation of his house and how stupid it was just to sit around and drinking beer and I know I'm sure part of that was just because I didn't feel I could handle just sitting around drinking beer, I wouldn't know what to do with myself.  How to carry on a sort of silly, light conversation while doing that.  So I got a very moralistic tone and took the attitude that it was just wrong to do it.  And then one time, I've forgotten it, it was my junior year or my senior year but one of those two times I was with him.  And there was some champaign around for some reason, it must have been a Christmas party, and I, I think part of my pressure that I was feeling was knowing that he felt a great deal more for me than I could return to him and this was upsetting me but beyond that I think I was just generally upset with myself and so either I wanted to be drunk or else I drank too much but I can remember feeling high enough so I didn't care what I did and then becoming extremely upset about it.
ANALYST: What might you have done if you were high enough?
PATIENT:  I don't know, except I think maybe I thought I'd be destructive as well as make a fool of myself.  Because usually I'm very conscientious about other people's property.  And I do know that while I was drinking the champaign or at least far enough along so I didn't really care what I was doing, I kept spilling it on somebody's coat and I was almost doing it on purpose or at least I felt that it was quite funny that I was doing it.  And that, I mean that's just sort of a minor thing but the person's coat that I was spilling it on was somebody who didn't drink at all and he was getting kind of upset.  So to me, that was a destructive thing to be doing and I think I was afraid that I might get more destructive or louder, foolish and drawing attention to myself and everything.  (Pause)
And just the whole thing of having attention called to me.  I've, except for participating in classes when I am getting aggressively involved in what's being discussed, I never have liked having attention on me at all.  I think even within my family I felt that way.  (Pause) And it's the same thing, I was just thinking about well, maybe, maybe I've already mentioned this but at parties having different parlor games or even just playing tennis or bridge or anything, where there's competition, therefore a certain kind of focusing on each player, and I can't stand that kind of pressure on me.  And I'm probably competitive in a way myself as far as trying to become as good or better than other people are because I feel inferior trying to make myself think I think I'm superior.  But in any game where there's just open competition I almost loose on purpose.  Because I know in just playing tennis, I, (stammers) I could do very well in rallying but as soon as it became a game I would begin to hate it and my thoughts would be well let's just get this over as fast as possible, so just keep losing and, or else I'd just feel that no matter what I did, I couldn't play very well and, and then of course, I wouldn't.  (Pause)
And I imagine part of this feeling comes from the attitude my father has toward games or competition because he, he just is fierce about winning.  And it used to be just awful when he and I would play tennis, because the fiercer he got the more I'd just fall apart.  And the, and he thought it was funny, which would be more upsetting still.  I'm not sure he really knew what was happening but he just enjoyed winning so much that he didn't even think about anybody else.  (Pause) And it's almost like in all those times I'm sure somebody's going to say I'm, that was a stupid thing to do, or what a clod you are or something, so I would become nasty first or unpleasant first.  And then when, if I got into arguments with whomever I was playing with, it would make a little more sense.  (Pause)
Or if it were people I didn't know so well I guess I'd just get very apologetic and sort of, and have a steady stream of excuses.  (Pause) I was just thinking about being at parties again and how if I could relax then probably everything would be alright.  But I think underneath it all, even times when I have relaxed and I've known things have gone well, I basically believe that I'm poor company and that it was just sort of a freak accident when something worked out, so it was a very nice occasion.  (Pause) And maybe that's why I'm so moody and nasty with e sometimes, because I really can't understand why he does love me and I don't, sometimes I don't even believe him if he says he does.  And so it's almost like I'm trying to make him finally say alright I really don't.  (Pause) It's funny if he, if I get him to the point where he just kind of withdraws from me because he's upset or angry or something, then I can become very warm and affectionate to him and I used to think it was because he had stopped putting pressure on me to return a feeling.  But maybe it's because I got what I wanted and so now I can be nicer.  (Silence)
It's funny, for some reason, I just was trying to think what the train of thought was but somehow or other my mind got back to school and an incident that well, every morning when the boys come into the room they're to shake hands and say hello to me.  And sometimes a few get busy as soon as they come in the room with other things and they don't, and I know that regardless of what reason it might have been that the boy didn't come up to say hello to me, I take it very personally.  As if it's sort of a total rejection of me that they didn't say hello and then that will put me in a defensive mood for the rest of the day.  And then this really worries me that I can be so sensitive or swayed by little things like this because I shouldn't be, I should be stronger.  And, I don't know, I think of the word above reacting this way with the children who I am sure half the time aren't doing anything near what I give them the motives of doing.  Because maybe it's because sometimes I want e to treat me one way when he comes home and if he doesn't, then I get very moody with him and it may not even be something I'm aware I wanted.  (Silence)
I was just thinking too that most of the time when I'm talking instead of feeling more relaxed, in a way I feel more relaxed because I am talking more easily but on the other hand, my body feels as if I'm getting more tense.  And I become aware of the fact that probably sometimes I'm e—, even using an angry tone and my fists are clenched and I just feel all tense.  (2-minute silence)
My mind just went to the fact that starting next week I have conferences with mothers and I, it's almost like the whole time I've been here too, I've been, in the back of my mind trying to think of what little tasks I had in my mind but then forgot that I should be doing for school.  And I was just wondering when in the world am I ever going to write down for each boy all the things that I'll have to write down and again I know I'll make the whole job much too big and unwieldy.  And I, I, just wondered that anything about when I write up notes for conferences or write the reports I always say really one central thing a million different ways and I never can qui—, get the note, I never can cut it down.  And this is the way I used to always write papers too.  It's almost like I never got a clear focus or even if I did have one, I would keep going around it and around it, saying it all in so many different ways and almost seems like again it's a lack of confidence that I've really said it.  So I have to say it again in a slightly different way or with a slightly different connotation so I'm sure to cover it.  (Pause)
And it's true too of the way I take notes when I'm reading a book or if I'm just reading.  Because I know when I'm reading my speed is very slow because I keep going back over the same things again and again.  (Pause) I used to find those reading tests that they'd give in high school for comprehension I suppose it was, just torture, sitting there with this time element and then all I could think about while I was doing it was the fact that I had only a little time and anyway, I'd be reading over and over so I'd be sure to remember so I could answer the questions, and then the feeling that I didn't have any time anyway made me practically unable to notice what I was reading.  And so I'd always do poorly on them.  And then when I did poorly I would, it would just be like another confirmation of the fact that I wasn't very able.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Our time's up.
