TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Now I was a little troubled by the clock, can we-is it possible to put it in a place where we can both see it or is that - ?
COUNSELOR: Oh sure.
PATIENT: Yeah okay, and the session is basically 50 minutes?
COUNSELOR: 50 minutes.
PATIENT: Okay, so it almost seems like we just kind of get into something and then it just-time runs out. Yeah let me talk about a few things and I had one observation, I was filling out the forms, I was thinking about some of last week's session and I notice when we got into-I mean it's a couple of weeks in a row, we got into issues, we're going down one path and then we come back or your questioning comes back to feelings about my mother and it was a little, to me I guess it was a little disappointing. Because, I don't know, I think I could spend all my life talking about my mother, I kind of would like to put all the issues about my mother aside.
It's just very draining for me to deal with it and it seems like she's such a nutcase today and trying to extrapolate back as to how much of a nutcase she was when I was growing up, I guess, you know and I can't get beyond the questions about the issues in my mind about her total rejection of my-of her role as a grandmother to Madison and my-and her attempt to try to maintain a normal relationship with me without acknowledging my responsibilities and my love for Madison.
 So I mean she's just a lunatic and I-my sense was, a couple of times, I had the sense, maybe incorrectly, that we were into some things about my relationships with women, maybe even my relationship with you, my sense that my career might take a change. Which I feel probably more strongly about today because-than I have in the last several weeks because these two big deals that will be a huge windfall for me and looked very, very certain to close a few weeks ago.
 Now they're encountering unexpected turmoil and God only knows where and when they'll close. So I'm feeling a lot of aggravation and anxiety about what's going to happen now. Everything seemed to be very certain and looked like my financial future was going to be very safe and now suddenly, there are major dips, major bumps in the road. [00:03:34 ]
 So I'm going to be strung out on these two big transactions for many, many weeks to come. I'm fearing something could get cleared up tomorrow in which case I might be wrong but they look like they're in some difficulty.
 So it causes me to kind of think about what's-what am I really doing with my life and then when I brought up the issue of women and how much more fun and rewarding and alive I feel when I'm in the company of women and dealing with women and then we kind of got off into the business of my mother and I just-
COUNSELOR: Well maybe to focus wherever you would like.
PATIENT: I mean do you think it's productive to deal with my-is it-I mean you raised the question, I just don't know whether it's produc-I just-
COUNSELOR: You're clear that you don't think it's productive. Or am I misunderstanding?
PATIENT: No I don't-yeah I agree, I don't think it's productive. I think she's just too, you know, there's not much I can do to change our relationship between me and my mother. I've tried and-so I don't know that it could be productive so I'd just as soon-
COUNSELOR: You know, as I said, I'm ready to focus wherever you would like to focus. What I would-the only thing I would say is that it may not be possible to change your relationship with your mother. Certainly it is unlikely that your mother's going to change.
PATIENT: Yeah definitely not.
COUNSELOR: Right? I mean that's just really unlikely. How you feel about that relationship and how intolerable it feels to you, or how-where it sits in you, for yourself, that may be something that maybe be amenable to change. But as I said, that's, you know, but how that happens is not necessarily by talking about her. It is a complex process so-[00:06:05 ]
PATIENT: Yeah I'd kind of like to put it aside for the time being. I've kind of just made my peace with the fact that, as you say, she's not going to change, I think I'm kind of stable or I've kind of made my peace with myself. That I do as much as I can but that I can't drive myself crazy about dealing with her and talking to her too much. I mean that's just-so I just kind of want to go on and I'm thinking that that's probably why what I really want to do is spend more time with bright interesting women because I just-I suffered so much under-in my relationship with her, with her mother. With my first wife, I had-in those three cases, three very, very kooky weird manic narcissistic difficult women.
 So that consumed like the first 40 years of my life, I was largely influenced by these three extraordinarily difficult women and then I got in-I led a very unhappy life and I think that caused all this depression and anxiety and just really made the first 40 years of my life extraordinarily difficult.
 So now the rest of my life, I kind of just want to put that behind me. I find in my relationship with Jemma and my relationship with Jane, my daughter's mother, and the relationship increasingly with the women in my life and I'm anxious to test that out in our relationship.
 You know, just a nice peaceable, cordial, intelligent, very, very productive, amicable kind of relationship and I'm getting a lot of wonderful feedback. And even today, I had fixed up a friend of mine with a woman that I went out with a couple of times last year and we quickly came to the conclusion we'd be better friends than romantic partners. And so we kind of stayed in touch as friends and so I fixed her up with another friend of mine and he called me up and he'd said, "Oh Aidan, she just raved about you, I think she really wants to have a romance with you and not with me." [00:08:49 ]
 So that was wonderfully gratifying and I get that kind of feedback increasingly and Jemma has been just incredibly wonderful as a romantic partner and an intellectual partner in every way shape or form. My relationship with Jemma is so wonderful, that the anxiety that I have and I've expressed to you is that I'm really just discomfited by the fact that I don't know how long I can just kind of sit and wait for Jemma to work out her divorce and work out her relation-how she's going to work me into the relationship with her kids and her family.
 And she's kind of saying on the one hand, "I love you and I need you and I want to be in your life." But on the other hand, "Don't push me too hard because it's still uncomfortable for me to give up-to allow you to possibly get in between me and my son." So it's kind of left me having to tread water for awhile longer until we kind of work this out. [00:10:00 ]
 So I'm a little bit at a strange place in that these two big deals, I'm kind of treading water on and in terms of where my financial life is going to be. With Jemma I'm kind of treading water until we kind of sort out how I'm going to inter-how I'm going to connect with her one kid.
COUNSELOR: Perhaps it feels that you're treading water here as well?
PATIENT: No, no I think last week I was a little upset at the-after that session because I was getting into what I thought was some interesting stuff and then we kind of got-I got sidelined on the business about my mother. But other than that, no I'm still so incredibly pleased with the way my mood is so much better, more optimistic and upbeat and hopeful even. That if these same circumstances, the trouble on the deals, the trouble-the little bit of trouble in the relationship with Jemma had come about before our therapy had started, and then again, the wild cards, the Paxil as well.
 As I was talking to a friend of mine today, he said, "Aidan, you know, if these things you're telling me about had come up like two months ago, you would be so freaked out, you'd be such a nervous wreck. The fact that you're handling them as well as you are is extraordinary." And it is amazing 'cause I'm just very pleased in some ways that I'm really functioning about as well as I can. I'm very-pretty present, I'm not, other than just overeating a lot, which unfortunately is bugging me, I'm just displacing a lot of my anxiety into eating. I've gained about ten pounds in the last three or four weeks and it's aggravating me 'cause I am feeling nervous and anxious. [00:12:19 ]
 But basically my intellectual functioning and my emotional functioning I think is actually better than it's ever been. But I am feeling a little-I've got to find some way to displace all this energy that I was ready to put into what I was going to do with my life after these deals closed and moving on with Jemma and all of that and looking forward to our sessions even more about where I could go and beyond. I don't know, I'm kind of feeling like I've got to kind of step back and deal with these issues and then I just want to throw out this one other issue that's suddenly come up in my life. I don't know how-what its impact is going to be but Skyler, my daughter's mother has just checked herself into a drug detox center for the next four weeks.
 So I'm going to go up to [inaudible] [00:13:20 ] and see my daughter and see my son at [inaudible] [00:13:23 ] this weekend. Try to see Skyler at her place in Virginia. It's a terrible, sad event for Skyler who had-I know had a serious drug problem in the past but I thought had pretty much put it behind her. Now it's come back and, you know, it's a-going to cut across a lot of issues, financially, what kind of impact it's going to have on her career and to the extent that she then needs financial support from me, that's an unwelcome thing.
 Time, that I'm now going to have to spend and it's got Jemma a little bit upset about boundaries between me and Skyler. So that's a whole-
COUNSELOR: What do you mean boundaries between you and Skyler?
PATIENT: Well she's picking up on how-it's been this issue of my relationship with Skyler that is always a little bit unclear to me and Jemma, very quickly, very smartly picks up that I feel very, very, very close to Skyler, primarily because of the fact that she's Madison's mother and the only person taking care of Madison. And so I just am enormously beholden to her and appreciative of her parenting efforts and she's done a wonderful job and I'm just, for the most part, very, very pleased with Madison's development. [00:15:20 ]
 But it can appear and it does very much to my family and it sometimes appears to Jemma that my affection and respect and admiration for Skyler may be more about my feelings toward Skyler independent of Madison. Just as a-so that's what I say by a boundary issue and I don't know about that. I mean I think there still is a huge amount of affection that I have for Skyler in her own right. With leftover from our relationship, I can't-it's hard for me to separate how much of that is just about Skyler and how much of that is for Skyler as just Madison's mother.
COUNSELOR: Well why do you want to separate it?
PATIENT: Well I don't know that I necessarily want to separate it. I'm not sure that it needs to be separated but Jemma is-has suggested that I kind of draw some-for example, here's an example as to how she sort of happened to mention to her that one of the time-one of the thousands of little bits and pieces of fallout from Skyler checking into the detox, is the fact that I had just agreed to pay for a ticket. I just bought her a ticket to go down to Miami [inaudible] [00:17:04 ] next week and take the whole [inaudible] [00:17:08 ] for her board certification as a physical therapist. She had passed the written, flunked-
COUNSELOR: Why are you paying for her ticket?
PATIENT: And that's Jemma's question. Why am I paying for the ticket?
COUNSELOR: Do you have a child support arrangement?
PATIENT: We have no formal arrangement. I mean we go on all these many years now, five years without anything, any definitive arrangement. It's been very loose and it has-
COUNSELOR: Is that by choice?
PATIENT: Yeah, we just never-we talk from time to time about writing something down, I guess partly because my income has been so uncertain and she's worked and not worked and it's been-it's been very difficult and I know it's something we at one point, a couple of the-last year started to think about getting a mediator or a facilitator and helping us come to a more definitive-
COUNSELOR: Is there a conflict about it?
PATIENT: There really hasn't been, it's been kind of very-
COUNSELOR: Why would you get a mediator?
PATIENT: Well, we kind of wanted to get some guidance to kind of clarify many things about the parenting issues and just nothing has been defined. From everything from the name Madison uses which at the minute is her mother's name to all kinds of decisions, decision making, all kinds of financial business.
COUNSELOR: So Jemma's jealous?
PATIENT: Jemma is not saying she's jealous, but she's-
COUNSELOR: She's acting like she's jealous?
PATIENT: No, she's raising some legitimate issues which is when I do things, when I write checks to Skyler, which I just do on kind of an ad hoc basis. Some years it's been a lot, as much as $18,000, $25,000 and some years it's been very little, as little as $6,000. The question in her mind is theoretically everything could be traced back to Madison, to the extent that I'm writing a check for Skyler that frees up money that she can-that she was otherwise going to spend [inaudible] [00:19:43 ], it's just fungible balance.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel when Jemma raises questions about your sending money to Skyler?
PATIENT: I respect Jemma and I-we've achieved I think, such a wonderful relationship that I am happy to have her input on every aspect of my life and I'm glad that she's raising it because I think she's-I don't feel defensive about it. I think it's about-
COUNSELOR: So she's disinterested and she's in an objective position?
PATIENT: She says she is and I can accept that there might be at some point a conflict but not yet, nothing at this point. But anyhow, that's one place where on money issues, we're not doing things for Skyler, we're doing it for Skyler, has Skyler doing it for Skyler as Madison's mother.
 But it's kind of part and parcel of my whole-of this whole mindset that I'm in of trying to do as much as I can for-to be the best possible friend and nurturer and supporter of the important women in my life. Whether it's Jemma or Skyler or anybody else that I'm involved with. [00:21:26 ]
COUNSELOR: Does that mean following their lead and taking their suggestions and-is that what that means? That's what it sounds like with this situation, like Jemma said, "Well what about these checks?" and you experience it as she's raising an important question, you should think about it. Maybe you shouldn't be writing these checks, maybe she's right.
PATIENT: Yeah, taking their lead, yeah.
COUNSELOR: But I don't think you always like it.
PATIENT: I don't think I what?
COUNSELOR: I don't think you always like it as much as you say you do. For example, you didn't like it here.
PATIENT: When you-when my mother?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Well you're right but in a way I guess, I'm glad that you did because then it just kind of-it may have forced me to deal with and I'm glad I did. I took a more assertive stand and I thought about it and I said-and I considered it. Is there any benefit in talking about my mother? And so I'm glad that it came up and that we dealt with it and I appreciated your feedback on it, that it's-that we don't necessarily have to deal with it but that it might come in at some other way into our work.
 And so I think the bottom line is that I'm not unhappy about it. I think-and I'm glad that-
COUNSELOR: You said you were upset. [00:23:13 ]
PATIENT: I think I was upset last time and okay, but life has its upsetting moments but I think the place-I think that where I'm growing and enjoying life more and enjoying the interactions that I'm having with you and I think this is helping me get somewhere is that I can be upset with a woman without it becoming a big deal.
 It can be an upset-it can be like-I can get upset by something Jemma does, upset by something Skyler does, upset by something you do and work it out. And so I can then resolve A to clear the air. I think that's something I'm just being far more effective about. Not letting it fester, not letting grudges build up, not letting it so permeate the relationship that I'm just in a bad temper all the time.
 So I think that's what the-that's forcing me to then engage whether it's you or Jemma or Skyler and hear your views and get a chance to put my views out there and really it enhances our connections because in the case of each of the three of you you're-and again, this is the big difference between my mother and her mother and Karina and Hannah. Is that you're all three women that I can-that I enjoy getting your feedback on. I enjoy having this very real authentic relationship in a very meaningful way. [00:25:14 ]
 And it's such a refreshing change for me and I'm going, from here, to have dinner with another bright interesting attractive woman that I really will look forward to engaging with. And it's such a-and you know and then coming full circle as to finish the thought, that, this kind of engagement and connection that we have and the feedback and the back and forth, even with the upsetting moments, is so much-is so wonderfully fulfilling for me. It's so extraordinarily exciting and stimulating to me that it's what got me saying to you last week, "This is what I really wish my life had been more about in the past and what I'd like to have my life be about in the future."
 Because what women say to me, what Jemma has said to me, what Skyler has said to me, what other woman have said to me is that, "Aidan, you're a fairly rare guy that is prepared to have these kind of thoughtful, well considered, well mannered discussions that most guys who are upset, as you pointed out, they all will stalk off or will do-or will just fly off the handle and want to control the communication, will just want to." [00:26:54 ]
 And what I'm so delighted by is to find that I'm hearing more and more and more from the women in my life that this warmness I have to listen to them, enjoy provoking their displeasure if that's what it is. But then handle it in a very calm, reasonable and thoughtful and empathetic way is something that I'm hearing now is a very rare experience. And it's a joy to me to know that that's something that is unusual.
 It says to me well then I have something that indeed is unusual and I'm just hearing it from a few people, I don't know that it's-I'm interested in finding out if that's really the case, then this is something that if it's good for me and it's good for them, then I should find a way to do more of it and maybe make it more a part of what my life is all about. Because that would be far more fulfilling to me than just getting another goddamned real estate [inaudible] [00:28:04 ].
 So this really beautifully ties it all together, it ties everything together.
COUNSELOR: That's your thought of running a dating service?
PATIENT: That was-yes, that could that, that led to that, exactly. Something that allows me to engage with women, to listen very hard to what they have to say and try to-maybe try to help solve problems that are on their mind. Also learn and grow from my interactions with them and just have some very, very good intensive communications about real life issues, of personal growth and fun and pleasure and dating and romance and all the things that I think-that I enjoy and I think most people enjoy. And I guess and I'm hearing more and more so many guys like me don't particularly-either aren't good at talking about or don't particularly want to talk about.
 So it really is true that it's a fairly rare thing that I'm doing, then great, then I should be more-I should be doing more of it and figuring out a way to-just to be doing it more and maybe find a way to make a living out of it. It's-how does that all strike you?
COUNSELOR: I was wondering if somewhere in the fantasy of running a dating service was the idea-I mean I say fantasy in the sense of idea and thoughts about or daydream, is that a fair characterization?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering if somewhere in there was the idea that you would also sleep with them? [00:30:05 ]
PATIENT: Yeah I mean it's certainly in the fantasy. But-
COUNSELOR: You had a big reaction when I started speaking. What was that?
PATIENT: I had a big reaction when you started-
COUNSELOR: As I started speaking and I said I was wondering if in this fantasy, you were laughing. What struck you?
PATIENT: I thought the rest of your-I imagined the rest of your sentence was going to be in your fantasy about fixing women up, like I guess I projected you, I thought you were going to say to me, maybe you're thinking about even fixing me up.
COUNSELOR: Fixing me up?
PATIENT: Yeah. I knew it was going to come to something fairly personal and sensitive and-
COUNSELOR: Yes maybe that is part of what's in your mind.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: I mean I just-
COUNSELOR: You thought it.
PATIENT: It just kind of just jumped into my mind. I didn't-well I saw that you were headed in some provocative direction, I guess that was the first thing that occurred to me. But the whole business about being a friend and a sensitive communicator with women and not-but doing it in a purely platonic way is something-that's my main objective and I'm not looking to-I don't-I want to be-it would be gratifying enough to me to just to be involved and having these wonderfully stimulating connections. And not involved in the physical way, particularly if my relationship with Jemma continues to be-evolves in the direction that I want it to go which is-that we'll be a couple and committed to each other, then I would see that as essentially monogamous. [00:32:50 ]
 I don't want to-I don't know that I don't necessarily want to look for a way to just involve myself in a lot of romances at the same time I don't think, but I don't know. I guess I just kind of [inaudible] [00:33:20 ] it's all kind of a fantasy at this point. But the more important thing probably would be just to learn how to talk to women and listen to what they have to say and see if I can gain their respect and approval as somebody that is a useful resource.
 I don't think so because like the women, for example, tonight that I'm having dinner with, I don't think that there's going to be-she's a woman I've had as a friend and I think we've had opportunities to sleep together before and it's never happened. I think that I'll be very, very pleased to have a lovely evening talking to her about what's going on in her life, with the men in her life and share with her what's been going on with me and there'd be no issue with-and she's coming to stay in my-she's staying over in my apartment. She's going to sleep in my son's room tonight as she has in the past. It's just never occurred to me to think about having anything other than just a wonderful friendship.[00:34:23 ]
 I guess I had the feeling, and this brings me back to something else, I had the feeling last week and it was the first time I wrote in our little forms where they ask you about what you think your patient is thinking about you. And I had the first sense that maybe there was some disapproval on your part toward me because I thought that you might be concerned or might be looking at me as somebody who's just-as a guy who's really thinking about trying to be all things to the women in my life and that that might include sleeping with them. And I had the sense, and I could see that from a woman's point of view that would be a very hypothetically jerky kind of chauvinistic thing for a guy to do.
 That it could make me look very shallow and interested in manipulating women to want to be their friend for a purpose of wanting to end up in bed with them.
COUNSELOR: It's complicated. I'm thinking about those forms, I'm thinking-and also the camera which, I'm thinking about that. But I think from time to time you're aware of the camera, maybe-
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No? Has it just receded? But the forms are-there's the forms and there's, the interviews went through at the start of all of this, that's all a part of the picture here and a part of what this is like for you and I think it's just very important to keep in mind.
PATIENT: Well the more important thing is-or the business about, I mean I knew that one of the objectives of the research was to kind of-was to-I could see that the forms test or ask me questions about how I'm feeling, about the relationship with my therapist and how I'm projecting what the therapist is feeling about me. So it's not something that-so I'm aware of that when I fill out the forms at the end of the session. I'm trying to be as honest and helpful to the people who are conducting the research as possible. [00:37:14 ]
 So that's what led me to think-to focus very hard on trying to gauge how I was coming across to you which was-and which led me to that conclusion.
COUNSELOR: That I might be viewing you as shallow?
PATIENT: Yeah because-to involve trying to be-'cause I guess that's the difference. I'm trying to be honest and at the same time, understanding that in my honesty, I may not be winning any friends here. I may be exposing myself as-in a way that you might perceive as a shallow jerk or that an intelligent woman might perceive as a shallow jerk. But at the same time, it's not my objective here to necessarily win friends, it's to kind of try to get my issues out on the table and for us together to examine them.
 So it's good that it gets me to kind of be aware of how I come across, whether it's to you or to another woman. But because this is therapy, it's-if I say something, it exposes me as being shallow or jerk like-
COUNSELOR: Well that concern of being exposed, seeing-well being exposed and needing to be-and feeling very tied up with worries about how you're coming across, it makes it hard to be open as you might wish to be right? [00:39:22 ]
PATIENT: No because I think what I just said is actually the reverse. That I'm prepared to be as authentic as I-to be perfectly authentic and open and say things that, reflecting on them, might make me look like a jerk to you. Might turn you off that way. I think I'm saying that, that I'm not censoring myself. I'm not here to win a popularity contest, I'm not here to have you necessarily like me or respect me which I would normally be in my relations with women because as I've said, so much of my life is about winning the approval of women.
 So I might normally censor those kind of remarks but here I'm trying to be authentic and knowing that some of these uncensored remarks might cause you as a human being, as a woman, to step back and say-as I might myself feel. Kind of, the guy's kind of a slime ball, he just wants to set up a dating service to befriend women or to sleep with them and that's not a very nice thing.
 So I run a risk of, as I say, just not winning any friends with you but at least it's something that's out there and we can deal with it if-well I guess I could ask them. Does it describe-am I turning you off? Are you alienated from me? Are you feeling a-that I'm like just a hopeless jerk from the way I come across?
COUNSELOR: I feel I have to be very precise here because I am not so concerned with the morality or immorality of the-of the feelings that you have and it kind of sounds like that kind of question. Like that's a bad idea. Now it may be that it's not very nice but I don't expect that people's inner lives are always all about being nice. [00:42:03 ]
PATIENT: Okay, well we might-'cause I mean my question was even more to the point of in talking about this desire to befriend women and to engage with women and connect with them, the fact that led that you asked is this a ploy to end up-you didn't use the word ploy, but I guess it crossed your mind. Is this-would this possibly lead to your sleeping with them? I guess causes me to suspect that you kind of reacted to that somewhat negatively or basically jumped to the-you so quickly jumped to the conclusion that I might be using that as a way and I guess maybe what I'm saying is maybe, this maybe betrayed a feeling about me as the kind of guy that would do that. Which leads me to wonder, are you-
COUNSELOR: Are you that kind of guy who befriends women and sleeps with them?
PATIENT: Well the very fact that you asked me made me wonder are you disapproving-would you disapprove of that? Or does it lower your regard for me so that it hinders our working relationship? [00:43:29 ]
COUNSELOR: I can safely say that I don't feel any impediment to working with you. As for whether I approve of you or not, I think that's something to examine. How much that's in the air I think a lot of the time and I think that all those forms really bring it forward even more than it might be otherwise and I think the evaluations and the camera bring it forward even more than it would be otherwise. Although I suspect that for you in therapy, this would be a big issue, whether or not I approve of you. Which is a different thing from whether I seek to understand, whether I have warm feelings, whether I'm interested and attentive.
 Approval is something different and I think that there's a lot to look at about how very, very much you are needing me to be approving of you and how uncomfortable it is, although you manage it, you manage it, right? You come to these sessions and how uncomfortable it is that I don't say whether I approve of you or not. [00:45:06 ]
PATIENT: Well I guess my concern is that if you don't approve of me, it's not-you're saying, I honestly believe you that it's not an impediment to working with me, but I know that in my work, I do a better job for people that I-my clients that I like. And to the extent that you, quote, unquote, don't like me or don't approve of me, it might cause you to be less enthusiastic about our working together.
COUNSELOR: I think that you're concerned that your expression of your giving voice to sexual fantasies or acknowledging when I asked about sexual fantasies and even, I think, by implication that I might be one of those women coming to this dating service is somewhere in that picture. I think that's got you very worried, that I'm not liking you right now in this moment.
PATIENT: Yeah, or disrespecting me or just seeing me as a jerk. 'Cause I know-that's a-there's like a huge divide between-in the lines of the women that I know between jerks and non jerks and it's very important for me to not be a jerk 'cause that's what I keep hearing from women. And I think for much of my life I was a jerk and I've been trying so damned hard to stop being a jerk. To being a mensch, to being somebody that a woman can really befriend. And it's important to me to have a woman say to me that, "You're not a jerk Aidan," 'cause there are so goddamned many jerks out there. [00:46:59 ]
 And nothing would please me more than to have-and that's the highest or just an enormously wonderful thing is for me to hear a woman say, "You're not a jerk." Because as I say, there seems to be a huge part of the male population that are jerks and I think that's-addresses like a fundamental problem in the world today is that there is so-there's such huge bitterness between men and women over women's perception that there's-that they've been so badly treated by so many jerky guys. [00:47:45 ]
 I kind of see it as my little mission in life to separate myself from all these jerky guys and be a good guy that women can trust and relate to and that's-that makes me feel really good. And particularly 'cause as I say, I think-I mean I talk a lot about this with Jemma and tell her how lucky she is to know me now, I think I've grown a lot and I'm not the jerk that I used to be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah just [inaudible] [00:48:19 ].
PATIENT: I mean I'd like to [inaudible] [00:48:23 ] for one more minute. 'Cause I think we're right at something very interesting. Does that make sense to you?
COUNSELOR: That you have a mission to be the mensch [ph] to make up for all the men who are jerks? Or to make up for having been a jerk?
PATIENT: Yeah, both.
COUNSELOR: Does it make sense to me? I don't know.
PATIENT: All right, well that's-I think I may feel like that's really a-that's really I think at the heart of a lot of what's at the essence of a lot of my issues I think. I mean it could even make sense to pursue that in the next session?
COUNSELOR: We could pick up wherever you'd like.
PATIENT: Okay, so you don't have a clear cut answer on that.
COUNSELOR: [Inaudible] .[00:49:25 ]
PATIENT: All right, I guess I'm-and I guess the last thing and I know you've had this [inaudible] [00:49:31 ] to, if I were to ask you whether I came across as a jerk or a mensch [ph], I guess it would be premature. I guess you'd have to reserve judgment probably on it.
COUNSELOR: We'll have to resume next week.
PATIENT: Okay, good thanks. Do you have a pen? Can I just ask one last question? Do you-how would you like me to refer to you as? As Julie or Dr. Larsen or [inaudible] [00:50:10 ]?
COUNSELOR: I'm not a doctor, my name is Julie Larsen and you can refer to me as you wish.
PATIENT: Do you have a preference?
COUNSELOR: Well you're-say what's on your mind and I could hardly dictate to you what to call me if my role is that people should say what's on their mind.
PATIENT: Great.
COUNSELOR: Thank you.
PATIENT: Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
