Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview Nine. (long pause) (inaudible at 0:00:48.1)
PATIENT: Oh, okay. Fine. (long pause) Are you waiting for me to start? (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: Here I go.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: Oh. Oh, I'm afraid I haven't analyzed myself too much this week.
COUNSELOR: You've been busy with other things?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. (long pause) You know, one thing I was thinking recent - uh, yesterday - that when you realize - when something is bothering you really bad - you really have a bad problem and you realize the length of time that it might go on, I think that's a shock. It's shocking.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Like realizing how big it is and how it might be going forever and ever - at least for a really long time?
PATIENT: Well I was speaking of being infatuated with one person. When you realize that they will probably - that you don't know how many years you will be working with that person. And it suddenly occurs to you that you could be getting into - that it's gotta end some kind of way. So I think that's - 0:02:53.6
COUNSELOR: You mean, it occurs to you that you might be working with them year after year -
PATIENT: Well, at least next year. I don't know about after that.
COUNSELOR: And you mean that it might be - the infatuation might last as long as he's around?
PATIENT: It could which would be....
COUNSELOR: It's really depressing when you think of it - all that time at once.
PATIENT: Well, yes, well - you know jealousy and what not. You know, and being jealous and you realize that the women that you're jealous of - they're going to be around too. In other words, the situation that has been dragging you down and making you depressed is that when you realize that it's going to continue for quite a while then I think your defenses - at least I feel that some kind of defense mechanism is beginning to take over. And I realize that I've got to check it because this year it's a little weight, next year it might be an ulcer. (chuckles) And - 0:04:09.9
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: I know that sounds weird to you, but it's shocking.
COUNSELOR: [Shocking for you.] (ph)
PATIENT: No it's not shocking. I mean, all of a sudden you start to think about this. And you say, "Now wait a minute." You know, you say, "Okay, I've been in an anxious, depressed state for eight months and then next year it'll be another ten months." The school year is ten months. 0:04:38.0
COUNSELOR: It seems very serious.
PATIENT: And I think that - I think a real serious problem that involves anxiety could eventually be damaging physically.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. And so you begin to worry what that will do to you.
PATIENT: Yeah. Besides, I'm just tired of being unhappy.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Tired of it and to think of that going on for another long period of time....
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Of course, that takes care of the immediate problem probably but...
COUNSELOR: What takes care of the immediate problem?
PATIENT: I mean, that - I mean that - thinking like that but the big problem I have - the one I - the general problem I have...
COUNSELOR: Ohhh...
PATIENT: I don't know what to think about that. I mean, I told you all about it. You know, I've said as much to you concerning it that [I don't know if I can.] (ph) 0:05:53.6
COUNSELOR: You mean like you've said all you can think of to say about it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So it feels like you've talked about it and said everything there is to say and there's nowhere to go. But you still feel upset by it.
PATIENT: Well, you see - well see like last week I said that one of my problems - one of the things that I was confused about was whether I should - whether attracting men or a man is something I should worry about.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: Or whether I should accept it as part of reality or part of my life or the way it is. And is it something that I should expect?
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Or should I think in terms that I can attract men or think in terms of doing it or should I like accept that that won't happen and focus on other things in life. 0:06:50.9
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. (long pause) And that question feels pretty insoluble?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. What do you think - I have to decide?
COUNSELOR: No, I wasn't thinking that.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: I was trying to see how you felt about that question.
PATIENT: Well, I feel - I don't feel any way about it. You mean  -
COUNSELOR: Well, see now I was just explaining to you that that's what I meant rather than meaning that you had to decide. 0:07:46.1
PATIENT: How I feel about that question?
COUNSELOR: Or - or - no, I was just trying to get at the fact that [that it seemed like] (ph) it was confusing to not have an answer to that or...(long pause)
PATIENT: When does this center close? On the 30th?
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. I [did plenty of thinking about that] (ph). The center closes on the 30th and we're moving to a new place, which is going to be over on 53rd street so I could see you here next week. And then you know if you want to transfer over there  -
PATIENT: Well let me figure out how much money I'm going to have. 0:09:16.3
COUNSELOR: Okay. The charge would be the same.
PATIENT: Yeah. (Sighs) Well maybe if I start - if I have more confidence, maybe I won't feel that I have to attract men and I'll just concentrate on other things, which I do anyway.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Maybe if you had more confidence it wouldn't be so important to you to attract men - so all-important.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know if it's all-important. It's important sometimes and sometimes it isn't.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: I don't know if other women really attract men either. I think a lot of what I see is just fooling around.
COUNSELOR: Fooling around?
PATIENT: Or light flirtations. I certainly know that a lot of men - I know a lot of men date other women after they've married. I don't know what that means. You know perhaps it's not worth it if - Oh, I don't know what I'm saying. I'm just babbling because I'm trying to think of something to say. 0:10:49.1
COUNSELOR: Because you're trying to think of something to say?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't really have anything to say.
COUNSELOR: What's that? You don't know if you have anything more to say or nothing is on your mind?
PATIENT: Noth - no. It's just not on my mind today.
COUNSELOR: Well, what's on your mind today? 0:11:12.0
PATIENT: Oh, grades and records and -
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. So what's happened today is that you're very much focused on school or things like that.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: And it's hard to get back in - well, you know a problem that goes on for years and years - you're not really into it every day. You're not  -
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. You come out of it and you go into it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But were you trying to get into it because you were  -
PATIENT: Well, when I come here I think I'm supposed to talk about it - and sometimes I don't feel like talking about it.
COUNSELOR: [What does that supposed to mean?] (ph) I guess what I'm thinking is I would rather you talk about what you want to talk about rather than feeling like - for my sake or something - like that I'm supposed to now talk about "x'. 0:12:09.5
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. (long pause)
COUNSELOR: What - what happened - you know, what's happening now?
PATIENT: Absolutely nothing.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) Does that mean your mind is blank?
PATIENT: Just about, yeah. Well, you know - well, my thoughts about men this week has been sort of - well, I've been trying to relax about this one man. And I think that - I'm sure that a two-month sep - not seeing him for two months might well help. I don't know what that's going to do to me. And - 0:13:11.5
COUNSELOR: Getting away from him for a while will make it easier but you don't know what that's going to do to you?
PATIENT: Well I don't - yeah, I don't know how I'm going to feel in the fall.
COUNSELOR: Seeing him again. You don't know then what that will be like coming back to the situation. You're kind of afraid of what that will be like?
PATIENT: I am - in a way, yes.
COUNSELOR: A little afraid that you'll still be caught in those [same] (ph) feelings about him.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: It sounded like (inaudible at 0:13:57.4) it's very discouraging to think, "I'm going to keep seeing this man, keep seeing all these other women, seeing this whole situation for a whole long time."
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: It's not like somebody that you met at a party and you stopped seeing him every day.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Uh-hmm. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's a lot harder this way.
PATIENT: If I could - If I could just get over the feeling that I'm some kind of failure.
COUNSELOR: But that's what it feels like - with him I guess. The fact that it turned out this way means that you did something wrong. 0:14:55.1
PATIENT: Yeah - well yes. I can't - or and the fact that there's no other man. Now if there were other men in my life, I would be a little different.
COUNSELOR: But it's the fact that not only [are things not going well with him but things aren't going anywhere with anyone else either.] (ph) And that makes you feel like [it couldn't] (ph). Is that right?
PATIENT: I don't know - I don't supposed it's impossible for anyone to attract somebody of the opposite sex but I don't know why I haven't.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. And it feels like it means that there is something wrong about you.
PATIENT: Yeah. Maybe - perhaps - I  -
COUNSELOR: You're not sure though.
PATIENT: I don't know. I - I don't know - maybe I'm too childish or there's something that's not magnetic or - I don't know. 0:16:26.2
COUNSELOR: But you feel like - are you saying you feel say...childish?
PATIENT: I don't know - like I know a lot of - I have friends that date. They have steady boyfriends. And I told you before, it doesn't - they're doesn't seem to be any connection between doing the right thing and attracting a man. And I was just wondering this week - I wonder if I'll ever have the steady boyfriend  - someone that I see regularly.
COUNSELOR: [So you're saying, "Will there ever  - ?"] (ph)
PATIENT: I'm just wondering - I  -
COUNSELOR: And feeling sad if there won't be?
PATIENT: I don't know - there - you know, I - you see I see people's married lives and I can see problems that people have that are involved - that are married. The housewife doesn't seem to have much fun. I don't particularly care for that kind of life. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with my life the way it is. I don't know. I have mixed feelings about getting involved - even getting married. 0:17:37.0
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Mixed feelings like in some ways you would rather have the kind of life you have than a lot of married people that you know.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I still wonder why I haven't been able. You know, sometimes it's hinted that if you can't attract anyone there's something wrong. The person is emotionally immature.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:18:06.9)
PATIENT: So maybe I can't  -
COUNSELOR: Maybe you're emotionally immature.
PATIENT: Immature and I don't know how that's conveyed to other people. Somehow I'm not reaching them or the connection or chemistry isn't there. 0:18:23.8
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like somehow you're separate and you don't draw them. You don't pull them. (inaudible at 0:18:33.9)
PATIENT: No. Yeah. (long pause)
COUNSELOR: [ I'm not sure whether you're saying that it must be you or are you saying that sometimes you feel within yourself that way of not drawing people or things?] (ph)
PATIENT: I feel what?
COUNSELOR: Are you saying that - is it at the level of there must be something wrong with me and then saying, "what is that?" Or is it partly at the level of feeling sometimes like sitting somewhere and feeling right now I'm acting like I'm not attracting someone  -
PATIENT: No. No, just in general - my personality.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. What about specifically when you're with someone? Do you feel that way? 0:19:32.5
PATIENT: That I'm not being attractive?
COUNSELOR: Well how - yeah - well how do you feel? I was trying to get  -
PATIENT: When I'm talking to them a man how do I feel?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Well, I feel - I feel relaxed. It depends on the person.
COUNSELOR: Well, take an example. Just think of an instance. 0:20:20.9
PATIENT: You mean with a friend or just some  -
COUNSELOR: I mean with a man.
PATIENT: Just one instance?
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmmm or just one - well try to get specific yeah.
PATIENT: Well, if I'm talking about something - (long pause) - [oh, I don't know what to say] (ph). I feel - I haven't had a long conversation that I can think of with a man. I don't have a lot of male friends that are just close friends but platonic. I - sometimes I - oh, you want me to think of one person. 0:21:34.8
COUNSELOR: Well go ahead with what you were going to say.
PATIENT: Well, last week a man that I haven't known too long drove me home. And I remember feeling very relaxed. I didn't know him too well. Usually when I talk with men that I don't know too well I'm thinking, "Does he find me attractive?" And I'm sometimes - I might be a little tense. Not very tense but I might be wondering what he's thinking of me. I'm usually thinking that. I'm sure that's it. 0:22:13.9
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. You're sure that's what you're usually thinking.
PATIENT: Yeah. What is he thinking of me?
COUNSELOR: That while you're talking to him in the back of your mind it's like, "How is he reacting to me?", "What does he think of what I'm saying?"
PATIENT: Yeah. (long pause) I think that's usually what I'm thinking of. Sometimes not - it depends on if I'm asking him a question about something that has to do with work. I might not think about it. But I think that on a social level, I'm usually wondering.
COUNSELOR: So part of the time when you're talking about teaching or work then you're thinking about whatever it is you're asking him, I guess you said.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And when you're talking to him socially you were thinking about, "How does he feel about me?" 0:23:10.2
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. But it depends - some men, this never crosses my mind. I'm not thinking of them at all. Some men I just don't - if they're married I'm usually not thinking of that. Or someone that I wouldn't think of as being interested in, then I don't  -
COUNSELOR: Then what are you thinking? Then how is it?
PATIENT: I'm just thinking about them or whatever I'm saying. Sometimes even then I might wonder what they really think. Well like the one that I - like this man I've been talking about - I feel that - oh now this really silly. That he would take someone else out but not me. 0:24:08.5
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Wait, wait, wait  - now -
PATIENT: And sometimes when I see that men - well see I don't know if - I shouldn't get into that because I'm not really sure.
COUNSELOR: Wait - wait a minute  -
PATIENT: But I feel that he finds other women more attractive and that he would take them out but not me. But then sometimes - but then I know that sometimes a man will take one woman out because she's more attractive and he wants to be seen with her.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm, but sometimes just the fact that he would take other women out and not you and that makes you feel like that means that there's something inferior or wrong about you. Is that right?
PATIENT: Yes. You know, I can't get over that vague feeling of feeling inferior.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. [I think you're feeling less than other people you know.] (ph)
PATIENT: See I just don't know — I don't know how I appear to men in comparison to other women. Whether I seem - I'm so afraid of seeming like a little girl. I'm so sure that I seem very childish.
COUNSELOR: Do you want - what specifically? What are you afraid that you do? 0:25:37.6
PATIENT: Oh, I feel that maybe I walk too fast or that I act childish in general.
COUNSELOR: [Well so you walk too fast  - ] (ph)
PATIENT: Or I move too much. I'm not serene enough.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:25:54.3)
PATIENT: And not womanly enough - I don't seem experienced. Men are always supposed to be able to tell if women are experienced. I'm always afraid that my inexperience shows.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. You're afraid that your inexperience in terms of having a lot of relationships with men?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: But somehow you feel like  -
PATIENT: And I feel that's left me lacking something that other women have.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. But what I'm not clear about is, it sounds like you have that fear. Like what's that pinned to? Like now I heard you say a couple of things. 0:26:29.5
PATIENT: Well, I look young for one thing but so do a lot of other women.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh....so....
PATIENT: (sighs) I don't know - that I move too much, that I'm not  -
COUNSELOR: Wait - let's stick with that - you move around, you don't sit quietly  -
PATIENT: I sit quiet, yes.
COUNSELOR: Well, then what do you mean you move around too much?
PATIENT: Oh, I feel that if I'm smiling it must look like a childish grin.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: Or that I look na�ve or that - I don't know  -
COUNSELOR: Wait; is that any kind of smiling you're talking about now?
PATIENT: Yes or - I'm just afraid  - I'm just afraid that men can see through me.
COUNSELOR: Ummm, that you're transparent.
PATIENT: Yes, that they can tell that she has hasn't had much experience. That - I just feel that they can see it.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, you feel it shows...
PATIENT: And I feel that that makes me seem inferior.
COUNSELOR: And you feel very exposed. Like wherever you go  -
PATIENT: Yes, and that men are astute enough to see it. And that they take me for a child. That they don't consider me a woman that they would want to date or have anything to do with. "She's not grown up yet."
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm, uh-hmm. "She's just a little girl."
PATIENT: "She's a little girl."
COUNSELOR: So it's not only feeling that way, but feeling like it sticks out all over wherever you go.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. And I can't break out of that uh...you know, "she's smart." I can't get out of that image. They think  -
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: They think of me as some type of proper person...and not real.
COUNSELOR: Like a doll you mean?
PATIENT: No, somebody who goes to concerts. Somebody who reads and  -
COUNSELOR: Is cultured.
PATIENT:  - who's cultured. I hate that word that people use. Somebody that well - not one of us - not a real person. Someone who's - that you don't get familiar with. 0:29:02.9
COUNSELOR: Someone you keep your distance with you mean.
PATIENT: Someone that you're only - someone that doesn't swear or drink or  -
COUNSELOR: Someone who has a different set of morals. (inaudible at 0:29:17.9)
PATIENT: Which is absurd. I probably - I'm probably freer thinking than they are but  -
COUNSELOR: It feels unfair because it doesn't feel like really that's who you are.
PATIENT: No, plus - but you know - I don't know - you know like the movie culture. The movies - like I've been watching American movies that have been made from about 1940 on. And the characters in the movie - the ones who like classical music and they wear glasses. They're sort of staid they don't have fun. They're unsophisticated socially. I'm always afraid that I appear unsophisticated socially. The more studious they are, the more unsophisticated they are socially. They don't get married. They don't relate to the opposite sex. And I don't know - I just feel that I'm just put into this bag. 0:30:31.0
COUNSELOR: But you don't feel like you are that way. Is that right? But like  -
PATIENT: No. Well I might be unsophisticated soc -  No, I don't feel that I'm unsophis - well, I don't know. I feel that I'm not worldly, but...I just feel like there's a language - a way of life that I haven't learned.
COUNSELOR: So partly you do feel unsophisticated.
PATIENT: Socially. I feel unsophisticated in that there must be something to it that I can't see. So far as I can see when I go to parties, I don't see that much going on that I would consider sophisticated. And you know lately I've been sitting at the lunch table with people who are called swingers. And there's nothing really that goes on. They just sort of banter around and  -
COUNSELOR: Nothing of substance do you mean? 0:31:38.3
PATIENT: No. I mean, I wonder, "Well what is all of this?" You know, what's going on? What am I missing?
COUNSELOR: And then when you're with them you feel that there's nothing that you're missing.
PATIENT: Remember what I was telling you about not getting along with black people? Well, I've been - I just sort of sat around with them. Of course, I was feeling that way that day. The next day people were friendly. [So it was a mood that I was] (ph)...
COUNSELOR: But wait now - I don't get this thing about sophistication. It sounds like you don't feel sophisticated in ways or there feels like there's something that you don't know about that sophisticated people must know that you don't know?
PATIENT: Yes. Some secret language that they have.
COUNSELOR: Some language? What do you mean?
PATIENT: Not language - a way - I don't know. I just feel that, "Oh, she's not - she doesn't have it."
COUNSELOR: You mean you don't have it.
PATIENT: I don't have it.
COUNSELOR: Feeling like you can't talk swinger talk.
PATIENT: Yeah...but I can.
COUNSELOR: But you can.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So now wait  -
PATIENT: Well - (sighs) You know when I was at a party a few months ago this person - I think I told you - he turned to another woman and told me that she was lovely and sophisticated.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: I told you about that.
COUNSELOR: You told me how bad that made you feel.
PATIENT: That made me feel - and I asked him later what was sophistication and he just said it was just - he couldn't describe it. Then he said it's something about - then he made up something about knowing about politics or whatnot. I looked up sophistication in the dictionary and it says it means worldliness. And very often it's an affectation of manners. I think a lot of times people are mistaken as sophistication when all they have is a way. 0:33:58.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's beginning to sound to me like you don't really know what the sophistication is - like what it's composed of. Like if you said to yourself, "All right. I'm going to be sophisticated." Would you know how to do that? What to learn?
PATIENT: Well, I feel that I haven't had some experiences that make me sophisticated. I feel that perhaps you should have been married or you have a - I always feel that sophistication - with sophistication you need a background of experience with the opposite sex.
COUNSELOR: But that's to you a lot of what sophistication means.
PATIENT: Yeah, part of it.
COUNSELOR: Is experience with men. Uh-huh, uh-huh. Well...
PATIENT: Well, I would call it taste.
COUNSELOR: Like knowing how to choose - you're talking about knowing how to choose clothes and music and [kind of like that?] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah, things like that. And call it a way of - a way you dress. And...and the ways of the world and dealing with people.
COUNSELOR: And what does that mean?
PATIENT: Uh...well sort of knowing how to handle people, being on top of the situation in any kind of relationship with people. Not being uh...0:35:33.7
COUNSELOR: Being at ease?
PATIENT: Yeah, being at ease but not - oh, how do I describe it? - Because with women it's a little different. Well, for example, with this man that I know I feel that everything I do he can see through it. Now I've heard - "Oh, she" - you know, "She likes me" or "She's spying on me" or he could figure out everything that I'm thinking and that I feel that he can handle me. And I feel that if I were - and I feel that he doesn't respect me because he's been able to manipulate me emotionally. And I feel that the sophisticated person never allows - is never manipulated by someone else emotionally - that they know how to deal with people. 0:36:35.6
COUNSELOR: That they are more independent?
PATIENT: They're more independent. Right - emotionally.
COUNSELOR: Meaning that if somebody tried to manipulate them they - well would somehow resist that.
PATIENT: They would resist it. And I feel I don't have that. Plus I don't have the manner. I don't have the sophisticated manners.
COUNSELOR: Something like being poised?
PATIENT: Poised. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And cool maybe - part of it?
PATIENT: Cool. Poised.
COUNSELOR: And like acting as if you could take him or leave him. Is that part of it too?
PATIENT: Yeah. Uh-hmm.
PATIENT: Oh and I feel that my movements are too jerky - that I'm not smooth enough and I don't have grace. (chuckles) And I feel that all of this hurts me with men. That this is why they can tell that I have no experience. And I wish that there was some way I could cover it up. You know, I could hide that. I don't want to be a phony but - and yet -
COUNSELOR: Well, okay. Let me shoot something out as an example. Now you're talking saying that your movements are jerky.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Now - and you're saying, "And that shows that I'm inexperienced." Now there must be something that stopped you from just [up in grade school or just saying] (ph) "okay, I don't want to look like that anymore. I'm going to change the way I move."] (ph) What is that? 0:38:14.6
PATIENT: Why I behave this way?
COUNSELOR: Well, why you - well, you told me that you feel you move too fast, right, and that that looks childish?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: That that looks inexperienced. Now you couldn't say to yourself, "Okay, I will start moving more slowly and then I'll look more experienced." But why don't you do that, is what I'm saying? I'm not saying you should. I'm trying to see -
PATIENT: Well, I have thought of doing it. I am trying to do it.
COUNSELOR: You are trying to do it.
PATIENT: I've had friends who have known me three or four years who volunteered to tell me that I've changed - that I do act more serene than I used to. Now  -
COUNSELOR: So if there - partly under your control then?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's partly under my control and part of my change I think has come about through psychological changes. Because even when I - you know, even before you knew me I was even worse because I've done a lot of improving on my own. 0:39:21.5
COUNSELOR: So the whole - well partly then you're saying the fact of looking inexperienced and being transparent and looking unsophisticated is something I can do something about. Maybe not entirely  -
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: - but something that you are working on.
PATIENT: But you know it's really umm - I know women who are experienced with men who have been married who behave the way I do or even worse. They're jerky. They move too fast. They're awkward. So that doesn't seem to do it. I don't know - but I feel  -
COUNSELOR: That doesn't seem to do what?
PATIENT: To make them act sophisticated. But I just feel that men somehow can see what I am. They know  -
COUNSELOR: Men more than women?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. They can see that she's not a woman. She's really not a woman. Now whether they get this from my manner - the way I move - like I feel that I move badly even though I know other women who move badly but - I shouldn't say badly. In fact, some of the most charming people that I really like don't really have the sophisticated manner. And a lot of the people who behave sophisticated they don't talk sophisticated. They don't really say anything. And when you talk to them for a long time, you find out that they have doubts about themselves and that they're blowing their own horn. And that - 0:41:01.6
COUNSELOR: So in some ways it doesn't seem so admirable to be sophisticated?
PATIENT: No. I guess what's bothering me is that men don't know it.
COUNSELOR: Men don't  -
PATIENT: Some men don't know that  -
COUNSELOR: That men want sophisticated women?
PATIENT: Yeah, but they don't really know what that is. They - I feel that a lot of men look upon sophistication as a manner or a way of behaving whereas I've always thought of sophistication as being sophisticated about something. See sophistication can either be an affectation of manner or sophistication can also mean knowledgeable.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. [It's kind of the difference between it being outside superficially than a more genuine knowledge about things.] (ph)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Knowledge about the world.
PATIENT: And I'm not so sure this always shows in manner. I think what makes a person move badly is his lack of confidence.
COUNSELOR: But it comes from inside [even if it's just that he moves badly.] (ph) And that there's something that you feel don't appreciate the kind of sophistication that you really value.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: And that makes you angry at them?
PATIENT: No. Not angry. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: Well its - well the less angry I feel the more - the less angry I feel if men - well, no, I'm not angry. It just makes me realize that they have these values and this is the way it is. And I feel less responsible for their lack of reaction to me.
COUNSELOR: It feels like more their problem.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. But that's selfish. Isn't that selfish to feel, "Well if men don't like me that's their problem?" 0:42:58.3
COUNSELOR: It feels selfish I think you're saying  -
PATIENT: - for me to feel like that.
COUNSELOR: Whenever you have thought something was your fault and then to think it's their fault.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is that what feels selfish - for their problems?
PATIENT: No, I feel - I feel women I think are always trained from the time they're little girls to feel that if they don't attract men, there's something wrong. Of course, everyone can attract men. If you don't attract men, there's something wrong. And I feel with the attitude, "Well there's nothing wrong with them, it's the way they are. It's their taste  - "
COUNSELOR: Men's taste.
PATIENT: Yeah, men's taste - well, I feel that's selfish. That I'm not being hard - I should be rough on myself. I should - 0:43:40.7
COUNSELOR: I don't get the connection between it being selfish and being rough on yourself.
PATIENT: That it's selfish in that I'm not looking for faults within myself.
COUNSELOR: Whenever you see a fault you mean it's - you've always ought to look at it as a fault within you whenever something doesn't go right?
PATIENT: Yes. Yeah. This is the way I usually feel.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Like whenever something doesn't go successfully that you ought to see that as your fault or  -
PATIENT: Most of time in relationships - well not always. I don't mean that it would be entirely my fault in every individual case with every man. But it's my fault that I can't attract anybody. When it becomes a collective thing. For an example, you're always told, "Well if you lose a friend then well that's just one of those things." But if you don't have any friends then it's more significant. You know, then you start, "Well why doesn't anybody like me?" 0:44:49.1
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. And that's how this feels. It's like, "No men are attracted to me."
PATIENT: So then I have to look at myself and say, "What is this?"
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. But it sounds too like you're not only looking at yourself and saying, "What is this?" but you're also looking at yourself and blaming yourself, which is different.
PATIENT: Yes, and like I said, if the fault is mostly that I'm little girlish or that they can see some kind of inexperience then I don't know how to deal with that or what to do.
COUNSELOR: Well wait now - that's okay -
PATIENT: I can't fake experience.
COUNSELOR: Okay well it sounded like let's see - it sounded like that the fault is that they see you as childish. Now you were pointing out what the things were - some of them that made you seem childish. It sounded like you felt you could change some of them.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But now you're saying it feels sometimes like you can't do anything.
PATIENT: Well I feel that there's something else that they can - that its an aura. Something as vague as an aura about me that gives me away. 0:45:55.5
COUNSELOR: Well like what?
PATIENT: That I don't know. I have no idea about that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it seems that a lot of the ways you feel are feeling like what's wrong with me as you see it. It's like not really a specific thing somehow but some general thing you give off.
PATIENT: Yes. And I don't know - lately I've been struggling against that. Trying to appear more grown up. 0:46:30.0
COUNSELOR: And how is it going?
PATIENT: I'm very conscious - well, I don't know (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Well how does it feel to be doing that?
PATIENT: Uh....okay. As long as I feel that I'm not phony.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. But you mean there are ways you can do it in which you don't feel phony?
PATIENT: Well, I'm trying to be more grown up and at the same time seem less stiff. I've always been able to be funny. Well for example I've been trying - with certain people - I've been trying to adopt a kind of lightness that they would appreciate. Not just to please them but trying to just get out of that cultured image. And - 0:47:31.6
COUNSELOR: Trying to act differently.
PATIENT: But yet at the same time - well for example one day we were talking about pregnant girls - teenage girls - and now the swinger - well for example so I used the phrase, "girls who've come to grief." And some people - the swinging type - someone who was sitting there who was a swinger type would say, "What do you mean girls who've come to grief?" And she thought I was being absolutely serious. Whereas other people who are more like me thought - you know they understood what I was saying. I was making fun of an archaic attitude toward unmarried teenage girls. So I can't use some of the stuff - lightness - with one type of crowd that I can do with another. 0:48:29.8
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. It's kind of learning where certain kinds of humor go and where they don't.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I notice if I say something sort of tongue in cheek or use a different expression like, "girls who've come to grief," or "so and so is a strumpet" instead of a tramp or anything like that that some people will laugh at - other people you know - what do - you know, they'll take me absolutely serious. And they think, "What? Grief? What do you mean by grief? What kind of thing is that to say?" And (chuckles) - well it's not as big a problem as I'm making it out. I get along pretty well on the whole. 0:49:26.2
COUNSELOR: But it's a problem to sort out when you can say what.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well one time - you know I was reading about conversation in a magazine called Cosmopolitan. And they were saying that sometimes when we don't want to talk to people too much or we're just being polite, we put them into a module. For example, we know a person is a sports fan; we'll talk to them about baseball just to say something to that person - or any other subject. Well very often people say to me, "Oh have you been to any concerts lately?" So once last week someone did this to me and I say - and I didn't really care. I wasn't offended - and I just said, "Oh, I don't do things like that." Not that I - I don't care. I'm not trying to deny that I would go to concert. And I'm not trying to change that part of myself. But people think - 0:50:20.8
COUNSELOR: What were you trying to do? Get out of that category?
PATIENT: Yeah, in a way. I was just trying to keep it light and people want to get all serious with me. I said, "I'm not a culture vulture. I don't do things like that. I don't like that kind of music." But I didn't say it seriously. I was saying it as a joke so that the other person would relax with me more and laugh. Because he knows I'm kidding and I know I'm kidding. 0:50:50.3
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. But it was a way of not denying that you were cultured but somehow trying to get the conversation off on a different foot.
PATIENT: Right. I didn't want to get bogged down into that.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Because I don't always want to talk about that.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. So what you're trying to do now - it sounds like - is have different kinds of conversations with people not just about culture. You know, get them out of thinking you're just "cultured".
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and it's not being phony. I am interested in a lot of things. And I do like to keep conversation light in a way unless I'm talking with one or two people. And they're really as interested in something as I am. And then I like to talk seriously. Otherwise, rather than a lot of pretension going on, "Oh, I never could stand opera!" and "Oh, yeah, what is opera all about?" I'd just rather banter around and just fool around. 0:51:47.5
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Kid around and have casual  -
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't like people getting serious trying to show me or - "Well I want to get into this and I want to show that I know culture" because something like classical music is - well my mother played when she was younger and it just seems very natural to me. And I feel annoyed that it's something that's extra I think in this country. I think people say that Americans think of the arts as culture and something that you're supposed to be in a fray over and in awe of. And I take it matter of fact. And I don't like discussing it with people who think that it's something that's not a part of life. 0:52:39.1
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. That attitude annoys you.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you don't like talking about it.
PATIENT: Because - no because I don't think of it that - I'm not in awe of it. It's just something else to do.
COUNSELOR: It's an every day thing to you.
PATIENT: I think so. To me it is.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like what you're doing is trying to get people to expand the way they think of you. You know be able to talk with you about culture or other things.
PATIENT: Yes. Yeah, I'm just another person.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. You're not somebody who's off afar just who runs from concert to concert.
PATIENT: Yeah, in an ivory tower or something. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. (long pause)
PATIENT: And you know I was discussing this with a girlfriend. And she says that sometimes people think of - they think of culture and social sophistication and a lot of sexual experience - social experience - as being - they're exclusive of each other.
COUNSELOR: Exclusive and what?
PATIENT: They're exclusive. They uh - that phrase, mutually exclusive - I don't know if I'm using it [right] (ph)  - that either you're off into books or something and you're innocent or you're with it. You play cards and you dance and you date people and you get married and you have children. That's one kind of life. And reading books and listening to Beethoven is another kind life. That this is an image. We're very - you know we just have images. People are not people. I think that they're just images. 0:54:44.3
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. You don't think that's really true that you have to choose one of those lives or the other.
PATIENT: No, because I know too many people that are in the field and they're certainly not innocent. Well I think that a lot of them are just people - they think of the people in the gym department as just dumb. And people in math are smart, etc., which certainly is not true in all cases. I haven't met a brilliant gym teacher. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) But you might. (chuckles) Well we're going to have to stop.
PATIENT: Okay. Yeah, all right.
COUNSELOR: Now next week I will still be here.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now the week after, I'll probably be over at the other place but I can tell you where that is and so forth.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now is next Wednesday, same time, okay with you?
PATIENT: Yeah. I won't be working next week.
COUNSELOR: You won't?
PATIENT: I can come earlier.
COUNSELOR: Ummm...let me just think about that. No I can't see you earlier.
PATIENT: Okay, the same time is okay. That's fine.
COUNSELOR: Umm, well I tell you what (inaudible at 0:56:06.0) If you could come on Tuesday, you know, that would be better for me. Could you do that?
PATIENT: Yeah. Sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Three-thirty?
PATIENT: Yeah. Fine
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now if the receptionist isn't there downstairs, come on up.
PATIENT: Okay fine.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
