TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So, yesterday got pretty bad. You know, after noon (ph) we walked home and just kind of read for a couple of hours, or knitted actually. And (pause) you know, eventually I kind of talked with James about some of the stuff that's been going on with me and why I've been angry with him and that went pretty well, but it was hard. (sighs) And then, like, right after that, Franco called to talk and I just, like, lost it. You know, I didn't answer the phone. I couldn't talk to him. And we were supposed to Skype with James's sister Vivienne (sp?) and her daughter and I (clears throat) had to cancel that and basically I just (pause)—just, like, the rest of the day I was (pause) having to work really, really hard on not to kill myself. It was very scary. Very scary. [00:01:30]
But, like, all of the things that I (pause) need to do to kind of be in the world and have relationships and all of that. And then I can't do or right now, or it's much harder or I feel really overwhelming to think about. Kind of all came on at me at once. And (pause) yeah. I really don't want to be here. I really, really don't. [00:02:26]
(silence)
You know, and it's like (clears throat) I can kind of put it away. I wasn't, like, crying hysterically. And I kind of ended up having to because (pause)—OK, I had a guy look at the apartment, which is great that the guy came by to look at the apartment. He seemed enthusiastic, so that would be wonderful. You know, and (pause) basically James is doing everything for me right now and I'm really grateful to him for that and, you know, (inaudible at 03:20). But (pause) it's like the only thing that I have to do is just not kill myself, and that's almost more than I can do. And I'm scared. [00:03:39]
(silence)
You know, I could do it, but kind of just barely. (inaudible at 04:15)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 04:15) two veins (ph), one (pause) to do with how much you don't want to be here and the other to do with how scared you are that (inaudible at 04:41) down there.
CLIENT: I'm in kind of a double bind. I (pause) you know, what I did was just kind of think about the consequences of my actions. Like, this is what would happen if I cut my wrists open in the bathtub, like, I would not be able to go to work tomorrow. Like, it would be pretty awkward for the guy who came by to look at the apartment tonight. (sighs) This is what would happen even, like, dialing it back some, this is what would happen if I took all of my sleeping pills as once just so that I could have some time where I live unconscious. I would go to the hospital and they would pump my stomach. It would be pretty embarrassing and kind of a mess for everybody. [00:05:43]
But (pause) if I don't do those things then I'm still here and I'm still acting (ph)... (crying)
THERAPIST: It's not any better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What happened in (ph) the conversation with James?
CLIENT: So I think he was kind of just waiting for me to talk and I was kind of avoiding talking and (pause) often just kind of not doing very well. But in that kind of dull behind the scenes way. So (inaudible at 06:34) said, you know, "Are you OK? Because you look really bad." He said, "Well, you know, it's not very much fun sitting here, like, waiting for you to decide to talk about, you know, the problems." So I get like, OK, OK, I can do that. And I said the kind of two general areas were that I feel like James is angry or inpatient with me or snaps at me for things that I don't need to do or am (pause)—or things that I don't think are reasonable. And I feel like talking with him is sometimes like an interrogation where I have to say everything exactly right and I don't know how. [00:07:31]
And the conversation I said, "Well, I think it's true." That's pretty much just the way James always talks, like, he's a fairly aggressive conversationalist, but I just can't handle that very well right now. You know, and he said that, yeah, he was sorry that he was irritable with me, that he wished he weren't. And he said, you know, "Where do we go from here?" And I said, "Well, I think I ask you to try to be really patient and careful with me and I think I ask myself to tell you when you're pissing me off." He said OK, then said, "Is there anything else?" And I was like, "Probably, but I can't think of anything else right now." This is the summary version, basically. So, I felt like it was a start. And it was about as much as I could do when (pause) we weren't in a moment where I could remember why I was angry at him, you know. [00:08:55]
(inaudible at 09:00) I'm just kind of hate everybody right now and you live with me. (pause) You know, it was fine and it was hard. I didn't feel like I (pause) said everything I—you know, I didn't feel like I could have put everything out on the table, but I started (ph)...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 09:55)
CLIENT: Oh, more just, like, magnified and, you know, magnified versions of those two things. I'm just feeling like I have to do everything right and say everything right or he jumps on me. (pause) And I honestly don't know (pause)—I don't know where the (pause), the line is there or how...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 10:42)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. You know, so I'm just kind of trying to be as honest as I could be and say, like, some of this anger is reasonable and I want us to work on that, and some of it is unreasonable and I want us to work on that too. Both of them are there.
THERAPIST: that's terribly disconcerting for you to not know how reasonable you're being. I mean, to not have your head in charge [I think] (ph).
CLIENT: I'm getting used to it, but (inaudible at 11:36)...
(silence)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like as I think about my life very hard, I was just this whore that kind of (inaudible at 12:17) that I can't sit with at home (ph), but there's nothing (pause) that actually deals with it. So (pause) (sighs) yeah. But, you know, (pause) then if I don't sit with it, I have to just (pause) (inaudible at 13:02) it's kind of (pause) person asking myself and that I just disgust myself (inaudible at 13:20). I'm just (pause) being distanced from myself and I don't know want to be where I am, so... (crying)
THERAPIST: [It's impossible] (ph)?
CLIENT: It feels like that. You know, I'm still here, so. (sighs)
(silence)
THERAPIST: So you had a conversation with James (pause) and then Franco called fairly soon after that?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it was when the phone rang that you lost it?
CLIENT: Yes. It's like I can't have another conversation with James again, right now. I can't.
THERAPIST: What (inaudible at 14:42)
CLIENT: I mean, he was calling to basically say, like, "I can't be your friend for a while," you know. He was calling to talk to me about what he had talked to James about yesterday. Then he called back later and I didn't answer [at the] (ph).
THERAPIST: When you said you couldn't have another conversation like that (pause) how would those two conversations have been alike (ph)?
CLIENT: I guess they would both have been me trying to be honest about being angry with somebody that I really, really care about in a way that (pause) hurt them as little as possible, but also, like, did justice to where I am and what I'm feeling. [00:16:12] But also, really, like, I just couldn't talk anymore. I couldn't see anybody. I didn't want to or I didn't feel like I could (pause) pull myself together enough to, like, form a sentence, [have a conversation] (ph).
THERAPIST: Felt like a big mess?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And it feels like (pause) basically every interaction hat I have with other people is (pause) false in some way, because for me not to be (pause) crying hysterically is (laughter) not doing justice to—yeah, is not telling the truth about [where I am] (ph). (crying) And nobody wants to hear that. Even if they want to, I'm really just (ph) able to (inaudible at 17:43) what to do. (crying)
(silence)
(inaudible at 18:43) after an hour or so, I made—maybe, like, after a while, I just said, well, I guess I'm going to go watch some TV now, get out of (inaudible at 18:56). So, we (ph) watched some TV, then as soon as we stopped I started crying.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Do you still feel like crying hysterically?
(silence)
CLIENT: (crying) But what scares me is that I care less about the consequences. [00:20:27]
(silence)
You know, given the (crying)—doing devastating damage to the all of the people that I love, that is not going to go away. (pause), I just don't care [that much] (ph). (crying)
(silence)
(crying) It's like I still really care but it's not enough to care, you know. [00:22:26]
I cut myself yesterday, before I talked to James. I didn't tell him [at all] (ph). So, that was both good and bad. (sighs) [00:24:06]
(silence)
I don't know how much longer I can do this. But, you know, (pause) I never know (ph). I always feel like it has to stop right now and it doesn't and (pause) I keep going. (crying)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:35) in a way it's impossible that all that could be true and it is all true. (pause) And nobody really knows what to do about it, and certainly I don't, you don't, James doesn't. But, you know, or even (pause)—[I don't even really] (ph) know a whole lot about what's going on. He (ph) knows some things.
CLIENT: [You found it] (ph)?
THERAPIST: We know some things, but there's probably a lot we don't know.
CLIENT: (crying)
(silence)
THERAPIST: Are there (pause)—I could imagine you have moments of hating me as well for making you do this? [00:27:22]
CLIENT: No, not that I remember.
THERAPIST: [Perhaps you didn't] (ph).
CLIENT: I like that you don't say that you know. I wish that you had better answers than anybody else, but, you know, you do what you can. (pause) You know, I keep hoping that there's some, like, [big gun in reserve that nobody misses it, you don't think] (ph). You know, (inaudible at 28:17), that was about a year ago and I'm still here and...
(silence)
I mean, I keep expecting to hate you too, but no. (laughter)
(silence)
I imagine it would be devastating to you to lose a patient, but not in the same way that it would be for my family. So, you are less somebody who's keeping me here.
THERAPIST: I see, yeah. So, I'm not as much at fault that way either.
CLIENT: (crying) I don't know what to say. (crying) [It's just so sad, it's so sad] (ph). (inaudible at 30:29) (pause) and I don't know where it comes from or why it hurts so much, I don't know. I just—(pause) it's a secret. (pause) I'm just tired of carrying it.
(silence)
THERAPIST: And yet it's not completely disconnected from everything else, you know. [00:31:50] In other words, (pause) it's make a kind of sense that it (pause) came up after (pause) expressing being angry at James, (pause) which you knew you wanted to avoid doing.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I see what you're trying to do here.
THERAPIST: What's that?
CLIENT: Give me hope.
THERAPIST: Oh, not that I'm aware of. No, I [write it a name] (ph), the way we can make you get worse. I'm not trying to make you feel worse. [00:32:53]
CLIENT: If it's a problem I can fix, then I can fix it.
THERAPIST: I think there might be a way that (pause) it would have to some advantages (inaudible at 33:27) or a big kind of disconnected from everything, seemingly justify illogical kind of cloud of awfulness.
CLIENT: Yeah, as you can tell, (inaudible at 33:48)
THERAPIST: But one thing (ph).
CLIENT: (inaudible at 34:01) [husbands would know] (ph).
THERAPIST: Or that it had anything to do with this things that have happened or go in your life, such as your husband making you angry or being (inaudible at 34:24) with one of your best friends.
CLIENT: You know, if I think about myself with somebody else I have to say that the connection is probably there, but it doesn't feel like it. (pause) (inaudible at 35:06) it is connected to things, but I can't make any changes in my life and it keeps happening. (pause) You're connected to people's (inaudible at 35:37) it always fine when you have people to connect it to.
THERAPIST: I'm a little skeptical. How's that?
CLIENT: Fretting about school, so I said I'm going to take some time off school. And then I was fretting about a job and I found a job and then fretting about doing the job. (pause) I just feel like no matter how much I lighten my burdens, they're always too much. And no matter how little people ask of me, [it's a lot] (ph). I'm lonely because my (pause) friends don't ask how I'm doing and then they all ask how I'm doing, then I'm completely overwhelmed and I don't want to talk to any of them. [00:37:05]
Sounds fairly (inaudible at 37:21) but I mean, I feel defeated.
(silence)
THERAPIST: I guess I feel like you're making it cake (ph) (pause) or how nothing helps and how you're very much defeated and overcome by all this. [00:38:42]
(silence)
But those things aren't entirely true. I mean, I get that at a certain level or once you're at a certain point nothing helps. Like when you feel really awful, like, nothing anybody says or anything anybody can do or any way to make it better, especially in that moment for a while. And that you can have long stretches of time where inside it's like that. I am not (pause) (inaudible at 39:41) I don't think, but (pause) again, things happening around you or with you do actually have an effect, sometimes for better and sometimes for worse on how you're feelings. And there are moments you're more able to do things and there are moments you're less able to do things. There are moments you're more defeated and moments you're less defeated. And (pause) I think it's (pause)—I think you're imagining that I was trying to give you hope and perhaps now thinking that I'm trying to be positive are ways you're setting up a disagreement between us about this. In fact... [00:41:16]
CLIENT: Well you're certainly right about that. (laughter)
THERAPIST: What I think I'm actually doing is saying that you're (pause) using a sort of a psychological defense here or (pause) for coping purposes, fooling yourself a little bit to be less charitable about it, by wanting to see this as a sort of global, disconnected monolithic presence in your life, rather than something more (pause) subject to (inaudible at 42:33) with (pause) things that happen between other people (inaudible at 42:45).
CLIENT: I don't want to think about that.
THERAPIST: I mean, this is sort of (inaudible at 43:00) from my point of view, I'd feel a little like I'm, you know, maybe wrongly—that's to be determined—but con you in something a little bit, though I'm aware that (pause) you are feeling is a bit different that (pause) and sometimes I'm however (pause) (inaudible at 43:32), like, trying to cheer you up. [I think] (ph) I would never do that. (laughter)
(silence)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 44:44)
THERAPIST: We should finish up for now. (inaudible at 44:51)
(background noise)
END TRANSCRIPT
