TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 1927-112. Reel 2, Tape 131. Interview 9, January 20, 1971. Austin (ph) counselor. 
PATIENT: I don't know what to talk about tonight.
COUNSELOR: Does anything feel most important for you to talk about?
PATIENT: No. [0:00:54]
(period of silence 0:00:55 - 0:02:28)
PATIENT: I guess that maybe I'm feeling kind of like I'm not getting anywhere. 
COUNSELOR: What do you mean when you say you're not getting anywhere? (inaudible 0:02:42)
PATIENT: I suppose because my feelings haven't...we'll say since I first started talking with you, my feelings are the same. We've talked about them and I've expressed them, but...and there's some of that I'm aware of now that I guess I wasn't aware of before and some that, after having talked with you, I was able to talk with my wife about and express. But I don't know if it has necessarily made things...well, it has made things different in a sense that we do discuss things more. But I don't know. I guess I suppose that the feelings that I came with, basically, I still have. [0:04:21]
COUNSELOR: [It's like you haven't changed with respect to feelings, meaning the confidence that you feel about what you want from life, about your marriage...they're still there.] (ph)
PATIENT: In some...maybe to a different degree they are. They're still there, yeah. I imagine in some ways, to a lesser degree, but then at other times, to a greater degree. By that I mean that I suppose that in the past that I had been thinking, "Well, I'm unhappy with the marriage and maybe I should think in terms of dissolving it." And then I would think, "Well, you really should try therapy first." And then, I don't know. I guess I kind of feel that maybe the kind of changes that I had hoped to make, I'm not necessarily making and maybe that's because I can't make them through therapy. [0:05:43]
COUNSELOR: Therapy hasn't given you the answer about what to do.
PATIENT: Yeah. That and also I...therapy isn't going to change reality for me. I mean there are limits. So I guess at this time, I suppose I'm kind of feeling disappointed, I guess.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. You're disappointed. It doesn't seem clear to you what to do at this point. You don't feel change. You're still where you were in life.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Does that make you feel sad? 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You seem kind of...when I asked you that, you said, "Yeah," like it was an unwillingness to say that. [0:07:13]
PATIENT: I know. I don't...I guess I was just thinking maybe there's another word, but "sad" will do. I don't know. Some things changed within me that are positive changes. And those changes do change reality for me. [0:09:11] 
COUNSELOR: What are those changes?
PATIENT: Well, you remember I talked about how I really just sometimes felt like what I had with my wife was not what I wanted. And then I would really...like I talked about my experience at the park and how I just was like falling in love with all these girls because of a kind of a fantasy projection that-
COUNSELOR: [You could have that kind of feeling.] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah, that they were...they represented that kind of thing. 
COUNSELOR: [Which you didn't have.] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah...and I don't know. Since sometime after that time...and I said that that kind of experience just really almost like drove me up a wall because you know, I'd go home-
COUNSELOR: It hit really deep.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'd go home and be very angry...very consciously angry at my wife because I felt cheated. I no longer really feel that way. And I don't feel it's because I've repressed that yearning or that desire. It's just something that doesn't affect me the way it was. 
My feelings, I guess, are much more "realistic" and I hate to use that word, but without denying my feelings, I guess it's like I make far more distinctions and judgements...oh, hell...more on a conscious level rather than a fantasy level about that. And it's unhappy with that kind of change because that...it was...those feelings were just...I'd really get uptight and I'd get really angry. And then I'd really let go at my wife. So that has been a positive change and we talk more. [0:11:41]
When we left here last week, we were...I really felt depressed when I left and we got in the car. She wanted to talk and I really didn't want to. I wanted just to...I just couldn't talk then. I couldn't.
COUNSELOR: You felt really down.
PATIENT: Yeah. And so we didn't talk all the way home at all. And as we didn't talk, I think we were both growing angry. And so then we sat and we did talk for a long time. And that was good. Well, it was good. It was more...we talked more deeply about ourselves and our feelings than we were in the past without being angry at each other.
COUNSELOR: You mean and you talked not because it came after a violent interruption. It was just sharing.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. And what we talked about were...are really our disappointments in our marriage and in each other. And that was helpful. [0:13:21] 
COUNSELOR: Was it helpful because something came out of it or just because it was a good feeling that came out of it?
PATIENT: Well, I think it was helpful maybe because something came out. But it was helpful because...I suppose because I told her that, "Well, I'm disappointed in our marriage and I'm unhappy." And she told me the same thing. 
I would imagine that the positive...really positive thing was that after she told me, "Well, I'm disappointed,"...at first, I felt kind of a sense of failure, but then I didn't. I felt kind of a sense of, "Well, we're in it together. We both feel the same things."
COUNSELOR: It's two of you, not just each of you individually.
PATIENT: Yeah. And that because we both feel the same way, in a sense, that makes it easier to do something about it because we both understand.
COUNSELOR: In kind of saying those things to each other, what it's like is the understanding. What it's like...if there were two of you, it would have had a "two-ness" to it. 
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. [0:14:37]
(period of silence 0:14:38 - 0:16:46)
(phone rings - counselor responds 0:16:47 - 0:17:40)
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry. I should switch my phone off.
(period of silence 0:17:41 - 0:19:42)
COUNSELOR: I sense you are really feeling down?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm, in a sense.
COUNSELOR: I kind of have the same kind of feeling for you that I had the last time you left because I remember it very strongly. [I have a feeling that you're really upset and it's because you can't see a way.] (ph)
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: [You seem closed in, the way you are in the situation you're in.] (ph) Is there ever going to be a way that's going to seem clearer and that you can be happy and have what you want?
(period of silence 0:20:34 - 0:27:50)
COUNSELOR: I feel a little bad about saying that. I feel kind of torn between letting you decide and also just wanting to know what you're feeling and what's happening inside of you. (inaudible 0:28:04) because I know sometimes with yourself, a lot of things are happening inside of you, but you just don't want to talk about it. 
PATIENT: I'm just feeling more physically depressed than mentally depressed right now. 
COUNSELOR: [You feel physically depressed.] (ph)
PATIENT: Mm-hmm...very tired physically. 
COUNSELOR: [Does that kind of follow with] (ph)...for a while there, I had a sense that you were feeling in your head depressed. Did that kind of come on afterward?
PATIENT: Well, it...although before I came...when I was still at home, I was a little minimally depressed and not physically depressed. I was very tense. And then when the tension left, I just-
COUNSELOR: It's kind of (inaudible 0:29:22). You kind of go through something in your head that feels very tense and very (inaudible 0:29:33). It's like after you left (inaudible 0:29:34). But what was...what's the mental depression about?
PATIENT: I'm just...where do we go from here? Where am I going from here? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I know when I was at the end of the last hour...I don't know if you remember that...what you were talking about, but it felt to me like you were starting to get into something. And I guess I kind of...and what you...and I thought that...I don't know. Like you probably had more to say about it or more feelings about it (inaudible 0:30:32), which with respect to the end of last hour...it's just like I really have a sense that where you were was just kind of feeling torn...really torn about what you don't have with respect to your wife and the gratifications that she doesn't give you or really what you want.
It was kind of like you were seeing that and [kind of sensing it.] (ph) It was kind of a sense of hopelessness and despair. [0:31:03]
PATIENT: Yeah, I felt very much that way. That's why I couldn't talk at first right away. 
COUNSELOR: Just what happens when you start to feel that despair? Do you kind of start to feel immobilized? You don't know what to do with it? Because I notice like when you do feel down, it's...you just...you're very different in a way. You know you're not-
PATIENT: I become immobilized, I think, because when I get depressed about my marriage, then I see the only other alternative as opposed to somehow working it out. The only other alternative is divorce. And I guess I get depressed because I can't see what...as opposed to divorce, I can't see what the end-product of working it out is going to be. I can't...I guess I can't visualize myself being happy.
COUNSELOR: You mean does it really feel like you...it can't be worked out? You don't really kind of...it's hard for you to kind of have a sense that you and your wife can live together and be satisfied and fulfilled and happy? [0:33:22] 
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess maybe that's how I feel. You know...that it's just-
COUNSELOR: You could do some patchwork (inaudible 0:33:32)
PATIENT: Yeah, but that's not going to make me happy...you know, feel fulfilled. And at the same time, it's hard for me to pinpoint what it is that...about our relationship that's not fulfilling or why it can't be. Do you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Yes. Even why it can never be that way, you just don't know, but somehow you have a sense that it is that way.
PATIENT: Yeah, and we talked about...well, I can talk about, "Well, it's not this. It's not...I'm not fulfilled in this way or that way." But yet I can't say why I'm not...why it's missing. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
PATIENT: I can recognize that it's missing or that I feel that it's not fulfilling, but I don't know why it's not.
COUNSELOR: You know it's missing. You know what's missing in a way. (inaudible 0:34:38). But why is it this way and why does it have to be this way...you just don't know the answer to that. You're kind of left with, "That's the way it is." 
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Does that kind of give you a feeling of like, "What's the point then?" or "It's hopeless"?
PATIENT: No...well, yes, but it...more that...I guess I get more of the feeling that if it's going to be this way, then why prolong it? And therefore, then I really get depressed because I think, well, then that means I should get a divorce and I don't...that's when I get really immobilized because I get really frightened. [0:35:46]
COUNSELOR: Frightened about what a divorce means?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: It's like there's no end-product there. That's just the beginning.
PATIENT: Yeah. That's right.
COUNSELOR: And what the hell lies after that? 
PATIENT: That's right. And will I be happy?
COUNSELOR: Will you ever find anybody or will you just be very lonely kind of like the (inaudible 0:36:07) who wants to go (inaudible 0:36:10) at the party.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it's like the doors really do feel closed or you don't know what's behind them. It's like on the one hand there's really the sense that it's not going to be...it can never be really (inaudible 0:37:36). Kind of the alternative is [worse than something else] (ph), but would you ever find it there? It's like you kind of feel like you're in a compromise now and it feels pretty bad to be in, but would it be worse the other way? You have no way to weigh that (inaudible 0:38:03)
PATIENT: I guess that ever since we've been married, I've never really had a feeling of permanence, which is maybe why I've never felt close because maybe I've never invested myself.
COUNSELOR: You held back.
PATIENT: I just kind of always had a feeling that it might not work out. And like now, at Christmas, we talked and decided that we'd stop all forms of birth control and see if we could start a family. And I was very happy about that decision because I wanted to have kids. But since then, I haven't had intercourse with her at all. And it's kind of like I'm afraid to because I'm afraid that she will get pregnant and then I'm trapped because I-
COUNSELOR: Your fate is sealed.
PATIENT: Yeah, kind of because-
COUNSELOR: It's a lot harder when there's a kid involved.
PATIENT: Yeah, I just feel it would be easier to dissolve the marriage if there were no children. I would feel it was easier. And so I feel very ambivalent. [0:39:37]
COUNSELOR: You don't know if you want to stay.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 0:39:47) [afraid to go.] (ph)
PATIENT: And she feels the same way. 
COUNSELOR: Is it what's keeping you together is your fright [of losing each other?] (ph)
PATIENT: I think that's part of it. I think we both feel that we get certain things out of the marriage that we like and are happy with, but-
COUNSELOR: It's just not the whole pie.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think that fear is the thing that keeps us together. We do. When we both feel that there's a lot of stress on us...on the marriage, that's when we really come together more and talk about it and then finally confront it when it's confronting us. And it's kind of a defensive gesture rather than an offensive move.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like out of...it's a "save you" gesture in a way, not because you want to...not because when you really feel sharing you want to share it, but because...you (inaudible 0:41:09) to it because then it'll really be over. It's kind of to keep it where it is in a way.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
(period of silence 0:41:17 - 0:44:01)
PATIENT: I'm feeling...I think I told you before when my family would go on trips and my dad would get to alternate roads where roads met and he could never make a decision about what to take.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: That's how I feel right now.
COUNSELOR: [That you're lacking?] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You really feel you're at a choice point and I guess you kind of felt it a while, but maybe it feels more narrowing now (inaudible 0:44:37). You don't know which road to take. It's like you don't know if the road with your wife leads anywhere. It never leads it to a nice place that's really happy to live.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's like when you hear...when I talk with friends and they're talking about the future with their wives or...well, okay, we'll say with their wives and their families and I never really even feel a sense of the future for us.
COUNSELOR: You don't know if you want a future "for us," I guess.
PATIENT: Yeah, but I guess I'm not sure which came first. Well, it's hard for me to say...to explain that because I've had that feeling for so long that I feel I probably came into the marriage with that feeling. But I'm not sure why I have the feeling. [0:45:55]
COUNSELOR: You don't know why you have the feeling. Kind of the effects of having a feeling is kind of like you can't feel like that road really...you feel like that road doesn't...it doesn't go anyplace. You can't feel it. You don't feel that it goes anyplace, but the other road may be your wife. God, that's really unknown territory. It's scary territory. It's not mapped. You have to create your own map and find your way. That's pretty scary.
Kind of the effect of it all is this kind of leaves you with just a real kind of despairing feeling like, "Is there no hope?" or "What can I do?" [0:48:05]
(period of silence 0:48:06 - 0:54:05)
COUNSELOR: You're feeling really down. What do you do with that choice? What's the answer (inaudible 0:54:19)? Will I have to make it? (inaudible 0:54:27)
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It feels like choosing one of those roads is just an incredibly big decision.
PATIENT: It is.
COUNSELOR: And it involves my whole body. I can sense that I (inaudible 0:54:56) that choice part. I sure as hell wouldn't know what to take (inaudible 0:55:04). Does that...? It looks like that makes you feel really lousy.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 0:55:23) Is it angry? (inaudible 0:55:26)
PATIENT: In a way, it is. 
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: I guess it's kind of anger because I feel that my potential for life is being wasted. It's not being [in-expendable.] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Like you're wasting yourself away and kind of not living your life and I'm not kind of helping you to find the answer? Is that why you feel angry at me? Were you feeling angry-?
PATIENT: No. I was thinking of my wife when I-
COUNSELOR: Oh. I thought you were angry at me because I couldn't tell you the answer, but I can't. I think you know that.
PATIENT: Yeah, I wouldn't want you to because you would have to live with it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it's like your sense there was a...that anger was kind of, "God dammit! The times are going by. The days go by. The weeks go by. The months have gone by. The years have gone by. And where had it all led? I've got one life to live. Am I really wasting it in this marriage?" 
END TRANSCRIPT
