TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: How's it going? You look nice. 
THERAPIST: Thanks
CLIENT: So remember—I like that it's cool in here. Ah, remember yesterday you were saying, this might get harder before, or, we're in that now. Yeah, I had a little bit of a breakdown yesterday at home. Oh man, (pause) So, I'm going to have to like share some of this with you, because otherwise I'm don't want to feel like, like I'm like— So like with this chick Lucy, I told you she's a little bit like, curt in her texts, and not always quick to respond, or whatever, there's a lot of lag time and all that. [0:01:00.4] 
And that's been fine, but like yesterday, yesterday, so she texted me late on Halloween or whatever, and I was asleep or whatever and see, or I didn't get back to her, or whatever. Then the next day, (pause) so the next day I was like 'hey, you know how's everything', whatever. She's like, 'Hey, I'm okay, just in meetings all day', and then she's like' how's Starbucks' or whatever? So then I said I wasn't there today it's been a hectic few days. And she goes 'oh', and I said yeah and she said okay. And I don't know why, that 'okay' aggravated me. I feel like, so that's it. There's no like, I'm sorry, or are you okay or what's going on, you know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: Uh huh. 
CLIENT: So I don't know why I ty- I said, I said, you know, I said 'you're funny and kind of confusing.' (chuckle) And she threw it back, 'likewise'. [00:02:01] 
So I was like, 'how am I confusing?' and she said, 'You don't share much, you just listen.' And I was like, I mean, I was like, what the fuck are you kidding me? So I was just like, 'Really? I feel like I've been open and being more expressive about how I feel about you'. And then I said, 'Maybe I would share much more, if I were asked more questions about how I'm doing, otherwise I feel like maybe I shouldn't divulge as much', you know. And she says, 'I'm happy to listen to whatever you want to share'. And again it's like this very like, (pause) I mean, is it me? I just, it's very like, I don't know, like that just annoys me. It's very, I mean texting is shitty anyway, but this is so, like, brief and curt and you know what I mean? So then I said, I said 'yeah, well that's good to know and likewise'. And then I said 'I guess maybe my guards are up a bit, maybe yours are too, at least when you're texting.'[00:03:06]
And I said, you know 'I've not liked someone, the way I like you, in a long time'. Then she says 'why?' And I said 'why what?'.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) 
CLIENT: And she said 'I don't think my guard is exceptionally up, I'm a careful person in general though'. And then she's like 'why do you like me differently?' and I was like, oh fuck me. I was like, ' well, why does anyone like anyone differently.' You know. I was like, 'just chemistry, and we seem to have a unique chemistry that's nice and kind of hard to come by.' You know. And then I said 'in person I don't think either of us are very guarded at all', I said 'I think texting can be strange and there's lots of room for misinterpretation', you know. And then I said, and, by the way, notice I'm sharing and I'm being way more expressive' you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. 
CLIENT: And I said, then I said, 'sometimes I feel like your texts are kind of cryptic and less expressive', I said, but I'm here, I'm just giving this to her. [00:04:06] 
But I'm like, 'maybe I'm misinterpreting, or I'm probably misinterpreting'. And I said 'since we don't see each other very often it probably makes me more self protective, because I feel like overall I've been really direct and expressive in my texts, you know'. And I said (chuckle) see that's a lot of sharing, way more than I usually would with someone. Still didn't hear back, and I said anyway, no big deal, hope your day of meetings aren't too bad, you know, whatever. And then I sent her 
THERAPIST: She never responded to any of that? 
CLIENT: So what is, she didn't. I said that, then I sent her this picture I'd taken yesterday of the sky or whatever, and her next response is 'how'd you get the jet to fly like right there?' So it's as if nothing happened, kind of you know. And then she says, 'I agree, texting is its own genre of communication. (laughter) You even have to program it differently into your computer versus more normal writing.' [00:5:06]
It's like this fucking nerdy weird, robotic (pause) then she talked a little about the traffic and then later she was like 'I'm so exhausted, thank God it's Friday.' I just said 'sorry you had a long week beautiful', she gave me a smiley face. And then I said 'we'll have some fun Monday, and it's my treat', and then she said,' sound good, sounds good'. Ah, okay. So then today, I said 'Hey, happy Friday,' she said 'yes, it's here'. And then, I, I just like, kind of flirted with her a little bit. I just said like you know, 'I was kind of thinking about you this morning' or whatever. This is what she wrote, suddenly 'the prospect of commitment makes me very anxious these days' I said well I kind of figured, cause that's the—I mean cause something's up you know. I said, and then I said,' well it's not like I'm asking you to marry me or anything ', and I was like 'commitment makes me nervous too'. [00:06:10]
and she's like, 'yeah I know it's not that you've done that. I was manipulated a lot of yucky ways in my last relationship and refuse to be that stupid again'. So I said ' I totally understand I've been through some awful stuff and felt really disappointed and felt kind of stupid as well.' 
THERAPIST: This is all over text? 
CLIENT: Yeah can you believe this shit? 
THERAPIST: (chuckles) what is going on that this is what you are texting each other? 
CLIENT: On my end nothing's going on, I'm just trying to flirt with this girl and be like 'hey what's up?' 
THERAPIST: But over a text? 
CLIENT: What's over a text? The conversation? 
THERAPIST: Yeah it's like the SAP channel 
CLIENT: Well yeah, but on my end, I don't know what to do about it because she's making me feel like, it's like game playing going on you know what I mean, because I can't call her or something, I don't know if she wants me—I don't know what's going on, you know what I mean. So I'm not going to call her and then see more, that's not a good way to call, I don't want to be like, 'Hey, I just want to talk about what we're texting', you know, fuck that. She can call me. [00:07:08] 
this is stuff you talk about in person. You know? 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: So I just said 'I totally understand', blah, blah, blah. I said 'look, you know, I just like you as a person, I super enjoy spending time with you. I don't believe in any sort of rushing or pressure and I despise games'. And then, whatever, I said, 'does that make sense?' Didn't hear back from her for several minutes. Then, I don't even know what this means, 'well everyone's going to do what they are inclined to do I suppose'. What the fuck does that mean? (chuckle) I was like, 'I don't know what you mean', you know. And then I tried to even lighten it up and be like 'how did the commitment thing even come up here?' You know, like, and then she said, 'because it's important.' I said, 'yeah, it is,' I said, 'but my sense has been that we're on the same page '. And she said,' alright'. [00:08:02]
THERAPIST: (chuckles) 
CLIENT: And at that point I was like, I'm just going to ignore this chick, I'm just going to have to ignore here, I don't want to, I don't know what's going on. But would it have
THERAPIST: She might just have want to have a conversation without actually saying anything to you. 
CLIENT: Saying anything 
THERAPIST: Because it's slippery
CLIENT: Yeah, and, and what ended up happening yesterday, that initial part when I said you're kind of confusing or whatever, I automatically started feeling stupid. For even having said that, I was like oh, oh why, why am I doing this? This is 
THERAPIST: Why? 
CLIENT: Because of what you said, what am I doing? Over text? Like what am I trying to get at, that's stuff that you either call them or you talk about in person. So then, when she said I'm confusing and we went back, honestly, it got so bad, I literally just started bawling. And I realize it's not because of this. I realize like maybe it's of this, you know, I think my nerves and emotions are really raw, you know, and I feel super alone, and I feel frustrated, and I feel, just sad and alone. You know, and I was like, are you fucking kidding me? [00:09:03] 
Like, what do you want? So you want— I think I'm just like drained. I don't understand anymore, dating you know. It's like dude; you're at my house having crazy sex and acting completely warm and whatever with me. Why are we having this conversation? Just go with it. If I'm flirting with you just be like, thanks, just, I mean you know what I mean? It's like I don't understand people anymore. And it's not just her, I feel, I don't know, it makes me angry and just makes me feel stupid. I just feel like, women, I feel like they don't know what they want. It's like, you, so should I be aloof and dickish, but then that ends badly too, because then we're just acting like we don't care and nothing really happens with that either, you know what I mean? But if I show a little bit, that I'm thinking of you, then suddenly, it's like we're talking about commitment, like, I don't know, I just [00:10:03] 
Shit, it's like you know, maybe you shouldn't have been having dirty sex with me and being all intimate with me and now you don't, you're having trouble with I don't know what? I don't know. But long story short. That freaked me out, I was like really, really something, deep kind of came up and I was like really sobbing you know. So I was just like, I'm worried, I mean, what is, like what, I'm not going to be able to date while I'm in session, psychoanalysis because I'm you know, what I mean. But then I got angry because I was like, I haven't done anything! You, you're being weird, I mean, am I being wrong here? Like, tell me. 
THERAPIST: I don't even know what you're saying to, to say whether it's wrong or not. I think that's where we have to back off and figure out what, what it is you're feeling. You know. I, I totally agree she's being aloof and weird. 
CLIENT: Right, right, so that's what I'm saying, so I'm not wrong. [00:11:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah, 
CLIENT: Well, what triggered it was I just got tired of like, I'm telling you, I'm reaching out to you and the one time, I've never complained to her about shit, the one time I tell her that I've had a hectic week or whatever, she's like 'oh'? That's not enough for me to divulge more, what do you mean 'OH'? Like it's like 'oh I'm sorry to hear that are you ok, is everything ok?' That's a fucking normal response, and then I'm happy to share with you. So that I don't know, that just really fucking ticked me off. It's like you know what, fuck you. It's kind of like Gwen with taking half my money even though I told her I'm broke. It's like, I don't know, and then I think my sadness comes from just like, this is why I feel, I feel like I can't seem to, maybe I just, I'm just too sensitive. You know, like I'm too something. I need to not be so sens— I need to just not care that she said oh. Do you know what I mean? I don't know what to do anymore. Like I try not to be as sensitive, but I don't feel like I'm wrong. Like that's just not a normal [00:12:01] 
That, that's just, what is that? You know what I mean? I, I don't know that just really makes me angry at myself, and sad and you know, just tired that here we go again, I thought this chick seemed really nice, and she probably is really nice. And, but, that's just weird, like you said, that's just weird slipperiness, it's not direct, just like I feel like there's nothing emotive in any of this shit. There's something just kind of robotic or something. Which is completely opposite of what it's like in person. I just, like fuck this man. I don't know I'm just so fucking tired. (pause) 
THERAPIST: So I wonder, if what you are feeling with her, on the one hand you are able to say this is probably about something bigger and deeper, is this is connected to what the bigger and deeper is.[00:13:01] In other words it's triggering some feeling in you about something old, that is actually happening with her, you're right, you are not making it up that she's this way, she's being that way. 
CLIENT: Right, right. 
THERAPIST: It's confusing, cryptic, aloof, withdrawn, kind of cold. And you're left dangling out, kind of in the breeze, vulnerable. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
THERAPIST: You're left, you're being very honest and open and real with her. Not overly so, 
CLIENT: Right, like, what the fuck 
THERAPIST: But still out there, and she's not joining you there. Even if she were to say, I need to let you know, I'm having second thoughts about this
CLIENT: Exactly, 
THERAPIST: That would actually be more honest and 
(crosstalking) 
CLIENT: And then I would be like, Okay, now I'm going to ignore you, like now, I'm good, I can shut that down, that's fine. But this kind of shit, it's like, now I don't know if I want to see you. You know, like what is this. You know? I don't fucking know. (pause) [00:14:03]
And what I hate about it is, is, I think about it, it's affecting my confidence. I was thinking about that Friday night when I, got emotional, the last week or the week before. That's what scares me, is that on some deep level when that shit comes up I lack all confidence. It's a deep sense of aloneness, of feeling small, and stupid and just I fucking hate that, it's making me really nervous you know. 
THERAPIST: That's what you put your— what your reasoning about this is. It's not that if you were in a healthy place around this part of things, that it wouldn't tick you off. It, it is healthy to be bothered by somebody being so withdrawn and aloof. That's a normal response. But it sounds like it brings you to this place that sounds like it's a childhood place for you. Where you, like, your self esteem is back in gutter. [00:15:04]
CLIENT: Yeah because I think that like other people, they might have, I think what I texted her is all totally fine, I think it's the, that emotional stuff that I have a problem with. You know because I think other people would have texted all that and then would have been like whatever. Or something, to that effect. They would have just gone on with their day and then been like 'eh this chick's being weird', you know or something. I wasn't able to do that, I couldn't think of anything else. I felt really stupid and shitty and alone and hurt and vulnerable. 
THERAPIST: It turned you on yourself, so the self criticism, you start to criticize yourself, and it's not 'oh what's wrong with her'?
CLIENT: And the same night at that bar, I wasn't able to just even, if it was for a few moments of feeling down. I think other people would've been like 'well fuck you, whatever'. You know, go back to their friend, and fucking buy a round of drinks and who cares you know. I wasn't. I couldn't get over it, it took me a while you know. [00:16:02] 
And that really, is, I've, I've had it with that. Whatever that is, and I know it's just not going to go away tomorrow but, I've had it, because I think it's incredibly unhealthy, and it's taking away valuable time and energy and, (pause) I don't know. (pause) 
THERAPIST: What's the feeling? 
CLIENT: What's that? 
THERAPIST: What's the feeling? 
CLIENT: I just feel tired. Like I just feel, now I know why I haven't been drinking, I literally feel too tired to drink. Like, I just feel emotionally drained you know. (pause) (sighs) (pause) And now, what sucks about this is? I, I have to just ignore her. Like anything else I do now is going to be completely pointless and stupid, you know what I mean. [00:17:03] 
And I hate that, there just used to be this dangling, you know, just I have to, and she's probably going to text me later or tomorrow with some other cryptic fucking thing, as if nothing happened maybe. Or something. I don't know and it's like you know man, just a fucking waste of time. (whispering) A complete waste of time. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You sound like you are so hungry for a real contact with someone. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah and I think that's what's worrying me to, I don't want to come across as desperate or something, and I don't think I am. But, yeah, like I think I'm just sick and tired of not having a genuine connection with someone that I want to have, I mean there are plenty of people I could probably do that. But a girl that I actually want to do that with, rather than having to feel like I'm settling or like I'm you know. You know what I mean? I don't understand anymore, like I don't, maybe I need to give up and try really hard not to date or do anything, or. (stammering) I don't know. (pause) I just don't know what to do. [00:18:18] (long pause) 
CLIENT: That being said 
THERAPIST: (laughter) 
CLIENT: That being said, I'm not trying to denigrate it.
THERAPIST: (laughter) 
CLIENT: I know I always do this, but just to show like, I didn't like curl up into a ball the whole night, you know, but, you know after that happened, I had some dinner, gave myself a pretty cool haircut, kept this thing going. Then my guitar player was like ' Hey man, I'm grabbing a beer at my brother's bar, with two of my friends I got up and went. Went had a great time, didn't mention one fucking word about anybody that I'm dating or whatever. That was that. [00:19:06]
THERAPIST: So right now, why is, why add that piece. 
CLIENT: Well just because I think it's important. I think it's important for me to even articulate it, that my night wasn't like a write off. I didn't curl up into a ball and pull down the shades, you know what I mean? I went out into the world and I, I (chuckle) I think it's important to point out for myself that yeah, these things are happening once in a while, but now they are happening in shorter durations. And then I'm able to, you know what I mean? It's as if I just need a good cry. You know, and then I have a good cry and then, you know what I mean? Whereas I think in the past, this shit would spiral out—I mean, the one thing I am worried about is I don't like this feeling of exhaustion that I have, like emotional exhaustion, and I don't know what to do about that. But, (pause) I was going to have lunch today with one of my older Assyrian friends and I just didn't feel like it. Because again, I'm having the weird thing with like small talk. I, I don't, like, I don't know. I'm assuming this is kind of common. [00:20:20]
THERAPIST: Very, and that's what you sound so worried about being. Like even if you had spent the night being down and preoccupied with this, and interested still in fact at was happening, because I think you are worried about that being a sign of something being really wrong. I just, I think you are really past that. And so I wonder if you are saying it for my reassurance. 
CLIENT: Yea probably for you and me, like, it's like I need to tell myself that, you're not, it's not 2004, you know. Because that's, that had worried me. I was like, wow, this, this, chick is affect, this chick is, I think I had a Samantha flashback to be honest. 
THERAPIST: Yeah I was thinking of Samantha too
(crosstalking) 
CLIENT: And then I kept going over, it and I was like, I didn't say anything, like nothing is weird here. It's just I'm feeling like, why do I care so much that this girl is aloof or not. Or I, I can't go back to that, and I know, I know I'm way beyond that. That's just totally different, its' just scared me, or is scaring me. You know, like that Lucy that Friday night, tat scared me, you know some fucking strange girl. Like who the fuck cares why, to have to have a good cry, like that's some deep seeded stuff. So that's just worrying me. That and this tiredness is worrying me. But anyway it's good to hear that it's normal you know but. [00:21:55]
THERAPIST: I also think you're picking up on something specific to you though that has to do with the feeling that, I don't know if you are aware of this or not, but like, you can cycle through a kind of a pattern and move out of it, and then think it's over and then the same pattern happens kind of like, a little like Groundhog's Day and I mean that in the, in the way that, it's like you don't have memory integrated of what happened last time. You know the feeling that this time it's different. Like with falling for someone. I think you are working on trying to remind yourself like what happened before, how is this different, how have things changed. Because it is hard to hold on to. You don't have inside you just the trust, it's different, this is different, and you just know that, and you know that I know that. You're trance (ph?) are working on figuring out how it's different, what's changing, how is this different than Samantha? If there's something similar, there's something familiar in it, then we want to actually get to know all about, and have it, you know take up as much of the time as you needed. [00:23:07] 
But it's also different, in intensity and you are reassuring yourself of that I think. Because it gets scary and you feel like it's exactly the same. (pause) 
CLIENT: I was even thinking today, when I was e-mailing with my, the director at the school. I realized even that, remember I was saying something was bothering me about the work, what, you know what's bothering me? I think it's because I feel raw and alone and, I'm even sensitive to a fucking boss's e-mail. Because I read into it. Is she being nice? You know what I mean? Is she, or is she being cold and aloof? It's fucking work. What's she supposed to do say 'Brian, you know, Hope you're doing great Brian' you know I r—great, like what is the woman supposed to do, I know she likes me. But that, that's what is bothering me that I'm, I'm very tired now of having that level of sensitivity, or reading into, like, is somebody being nice to me or are they being warm to me, or whatever the fuck. [00:24:16] 
Like I know that somehow I've got to make peace with that because that's, you know, that's incredibly unhealthy. Because it's not based in reality, it's not based in my interaction with my boss. (pause) So I'm just, I'm really sick of that. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I would wonder if you are preoccupied with something that was missing when you were very young. You can just specifically use you time, just wanting warmth. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Wanting, wanting to know someone's interested, someone cares. 
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah. I think like yesterday. I think that is what all of this is about. It's like I just feel alone, and I don't feel there's, yeah, enough interest in me. [00:25:08]
Like, just like, how am I doing? You know. It's as simple as that. And the problem is, that whether it's this chick, or my boss. Yeah this chick is being cryptic and slippery and all that. But, there's no reason for it to do this to me. Do you know what I mean? I could have been like, I texted her, I was very clear. I could be very proud of my text. And I was, like, I'm very proud of those texts. I, I kept it kind of light as much as possible but direct, so, I could have been like [inaudible] and that's that. Boom, awesome, good job. I felt that, but I also felt this like deep well of insane sadness you know. (pause) And yeah, that's all it is, I just, I'm very sensitive to when I feel like people aren't going a little bit out of their way to care for me or to ask about me, or to. That for some reason drives me crazy you know. It makes me really sad. But that's, that's not good, that's not healthy. Because if that's the case then, that's an unending thing. You know what I mean? You can always be sensitive about how people are, how you perceive people's whatever, you know what I mean? [00:26:31]
THERAPIST: Here's the thing though, I don't actually think that, I don't think you are making it up either. Look, even in your boss, (pause) part of being a sensitive person in the world means that you are sensitive to the things that are there. It doesn't mean that you make things up that aren't there. You actually are exquisitely attuned to things that are there. So, your boss might have been in a bad mood, just like, this is, this is a real thing you are picking up on in this with Lucy. That's really there. It's how much it devastates you that, you know. [00:27:07]
CLIENT: Well that's what I'm saying, my problem with it is, it's not about me. And I keep making it about me. I'm sure my boss might be, I mean, if worked there I'd be, with that fucking whack job, I'd be in a bad mood too. And I didn't even sense that from her e-mail's. 
THERAPIST: I, yeah. 
CLIENT: They were just a little bit, they were fucking business like. They were just kind of brief and then boom, you know. (pause) What the fuck does it have to do with me? I immediately took it to possibly mean that she's kind of doesn't like me as much anymore, She's like, she's like, maybe they're like, what is the deal with this guy, why isn't he finishing all this shit? All this stuff. That is never based on anything. Anytime I see her, she's super happy to see me, you know, so the same with this fucking loser, like. There, Like you said, there is something. Like who the fu—on some level, it, it can't result in this much pain. Do you know what I mean? [00:28:10] It's like, there's got to be some level of who the fuck cares. Fine, you know what? Figure it out, and I'm around, you know, text me, and we'll hang out sometime. If you can't figure it out, I'm sorry to hear that. You know what I mean? Like, 
THERAPIST: But the problem is you do care. 
CLIENT: That, that's what I'm saying Yeah, that's the thing, that's the thing. And what I'm worried about is I can't uncare. I don't think you can stop being a sensitive person. You know. 
THERAPIST: It's going to take work. 
CLIENT: Well know, but, but what I mean, I mean it's kind of like you said, do I want to stop being a sensitive—I mean I wouldn't be a song writer and a poet if I wasn't a sensitive person. I think the part that is bothering me is, (pause) I can be sensitive about stuff, but manage my reactions. You, know what I mean? [00:29:01] I don't think I can, I mean, is that, that's not possible right? I mean realistically, I don't think someone who is very sensitive can stop being very sensitive. I think you can, you can manage your reactions when you do get sensitive. 
THERAPIST: What I think will be possible is for you to notice what you tune into in people that are in them. And not have it be all about you.
CLIENT: Oh I see, right, right right, right. 
THERAPIST: And notice it, and even have it make you feel sad. 
CLIENT: Actually it's funny what you are saying, because I've always thought the word sensitive, I've taken it to just mean weakness kind of. That basically I'm too, something. But yeah, you're right, sensa—that's not what sensitive generally means. 
THERAPIST: I don't think it's actually means. That's a sort of pejorative. 
CLIENT: Yeah I use it as a, pre, yeah, yeah, it just means I actually have a gift to sense things that very highly[00:29:59]
THERAPIST: Yes, yes
CLIENT: And the majority of those things have nothing to do with me. And actually as a good example, remember I told you the one time I was on the bus I saw this guy and his little girl, his baby, and like that I almost cried on the bus, that's what sensitive is. I did kind of make it about me because I thought about my dad. But it's a general sensitivity. You know, it's just about you know the beauty of life, humanity and what all that stuff. So I think I need to remind myself more. Yeah, that's a really good point. I've always thought it's a bad thing. You know. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. As opposed to, your tough dad. 
Yeah, who actually was a really sensitive guy. 
THERAPIST: You just defend on that one too (ph) 
CLIENT: But, I think, I think just what makes me sad is, let's just say I get to the point where I'm very healthy about it and I see it's about, it still makes you feel a little bit like an outsider. That gift of having that highly attuned sensitivity, that's, it's a bummer a little bit. Because then stuff like this happens and maybe she didn't mean anything at all, you know what I mean? I mean we are texting, who the fuck knows what her intents, intent is or isn't. But, you know what I mean? That's just a, it's hard to meet other people that are quite at that level of being. You know what I mean? And that's just, (pause) that's something I think I need to make peace with you know. [00:31:31]
THERAPIST: Well, and I also don't know that it's that hard to meet people like that either, because here's the thing of it. I think you've been drawn to people who have been explicitly aloof and withdrawn over the years. There's a pattern actually of finding people who, what happens is you take care of their minds. You are interested in their daily lives. You ask them lots of questions, they, they don't reciprocate. I don't think that's just the luck of the draw, I actually think that's, that's what your childhood experience probably was. Even though I don't know details yet, we haven't gone into the nitty gritty [00:32:08]
CLIENT: No, no you're right. It's wanting, it's wanting to win over, you know. 
THERAPIST: That's what love is for you. As a child you didn't have a loving experience where your parents, your mother especially was totally interested in you. In how you think, in how you write, in how you draw, in how you, what you want to play with, how you are creative, just interested in you for your sake. So that that's what love is and then that's what you look for and want to find. My guess is, you have a kind of aloofness and down right criticism that we know of. So that what you know of as love is trying to win over the unwinnable mother. That's what love looks like. (pause) [00:32:50]
CLIENT: (sighs) Yep. (pause begins) [00:32:58] (pause ends) [00:33:24] Yeah, I don't know what to say about it, that's just totally true. I mean it's true, just in the way, just with my guy friends I can be sensitive because I kind of, them, I want to be accepted almost like a father, you know what I mean? (pause) You know, guys that are my age, or even younger, I see them as older. It's the weirdest fucking thing. You know. (pause) But it's the same, I just want someone to give me some guidance and kind of pat me on the back, you know,[00:34:04] (pause begins) (sigh) [00:34:26]I mean I think, I think one thing I was thinking about today, other than just exercise. Because again, my mind just goes to this, cause this isn't going to go away, this is not, we're just getting started, that's fucking scary. I mean I can't be just a walking bundle of raw emotions all the time. I mean, other than exercise, I thought about some—I think I really need to as scary as it is, I think I need to slowly suck it up and start playing like solo shows, with my acoustic guitar you know. I think, any time I've done that, it's been very intense and people seem to be like riveted. And I, somehow I feel like that would be, I mean I hate using like art or whatever as therapy, but in this case I think, it might be very cathartic, you know. 
THERAPIST: Or even I don't know if putting this as a container of your feelings. As a place to kind of allow them to be and to have their fullest, in a way it's not self destructive and that can give you an experience for the night that helps you kind of talk it away. And feel manageable between sessions. 
CLIENT: And also connect to people about those things without, in a productive way. In a good way. Yep. And also I think, if nothing else it has to be done, because I've always been kind of ashamed that I've not done that. And it's ludicrous, someone who's a songwriter who doesn't play shows because he doesn't want to play by himself. That's, shameful, I mean that's unbelievable. You know. It's like, you know, I, I, somehow I have to get over this, and I know what it is, it's because I feel nervous and I feel, I know how intense and vulnerable I get when I'm playing by myself, and, that's a lot to take. It just makes me scared a little bit, you know. But I think it's gotta be done. I think at this point it's gotta be done. [00:36:37] (pause) because it would give me a sense of confidence and a sense of like, you know (pause) Yeah. It's just (pause) So I think what I'm going to do is, as a starter I'm gonna just invite like 10-15 people. To my practice space, and just have like a cooler of beer. (pause) [00:37:05] pause ends at 00:37:23]
THERAPIST: It's really interesting, the experience of life and how that would fit in with, the wish to win over whoever she or even he is, or an audience watching you, looking at you, being entertained by you. You know, and it's like kind of massive exposure to just being yourself and tolerating whatever comes. (pause) 
CLIENT: You know because more and more of what I've been thinking is that a lot of this like, I think this would all be less, this like, these break down, crying things, I think it would be a lot less, if I felt in general, that, well, I mean I have a show to do Tuesday at some club, you know what I mean. If I knew that I'm gonna get up there and I'm going to kick some fucking ass with just me and my acoustic guitar, there's something really powerful about that. To the point where, it, it gives you a sense of yourself. You know I don't, what the fuck are we texting, you know whatever. And that's partly why I've been getting better anyway. I've got the band, we're getting shows, the records coming out, all these things are giving me a sense of like, I've got stuff to do, and I'm doing these things. And I'm really proud of these things. [00:39:02] But, But I think that's been the last fucking piece is being able to say, you know what, I can do the stuff by myself. In a quiet, intimate intense way, that scares the shit out of me, but I think that's the last step. You know, because I think, once I can do that, and do it regularly, this is all going to be nonsense because if that's going to be about, you know what, this is who I am, this is who I've always been. I've been working really hard to get to this point of like, musician and writer and everything else is secondary. You know. But to really be that, I also need to be able to get up there as just a singer-songwriter and have shows. Like even, I love the band, and we're going to do a lot of great things. But I am still kind of hiding, you know what I mean. I'm up there with a bunch of guys, and it's loud and, it's a show you know. But it's very different when you are sitting down and you're quiet and you know. (pause) [00:40:05]
THERAPIST: I wonder if in a concrete way, talking about singing solo, is like thinking about, wanting to be at the place where you don't need to depend on other people anymore. 
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And it would be great if you could do that right now and to, sort, to tape things together in the interim. It might also be that that's also something that's going to come in time, as being really comfortable.
CLIENT: Right, Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: You know [00:40:41]
CLIENT: Yeah. But that's exactly what it is, I mean what is there in life? Right? I mean you have to, you can't look to others for validation or to gauge your mood, you know, just because somebody said something one way or the other, or you think they said, that's no way to, I mean what is that? So you're basically being constantly you're definition of self is constantly in flux based on what's happening around you and your unrealistic perceptions of what's, that's fucked up. So, all you have is some sense of control, all you can have is some sense of having things that give you anchors. You know, and I have that in other ways with the writing and the band, but I think it's not, nothing is more intimate and powerful as just me and that guitar, even more than my poetry. There's something very powerful about that. It doesn't mean that I'm so much better than other songwriters, I just mean, it just is. Good or bad or whatever, it seems to resonate, you know. So. [00:41:52]
THERAPIST: Well, I still have this feeling that you think like, what you are proposing to yourself is like you're just gonna muscle your way through and just do it, and then you will sort of, create yourself as a different person? I mean even when you are talking about this now, you say it's just not going to be this way, but we don't even know why, we don't know a lot of things about what's that way even in you. Do you hear me? It just closes down knowing more about it. Knowing more about why you care so much you know? [00:42:29]
CLIENT: Yeah I guess. I don't know. I mean I don't know if I mean it that way to just muscle through. I just mean that, I don't think that it's going to change everything. I really think that it's just like working out in a way. It's just a matter of a practical way to 
THERAPIST: An outlet
CLIENT: An outlet and a sense of accomplishment and a sense of some semblance of control and fulfillment that, that I think a kind of, minimize a little bit more some of these more extreme moments of sensitivity you know. (sigh)
THERAPIST: Are you worried that the sensitivity is going to sort of creep into your life, and sort of run the show 
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: Some? Maybe that's you saying is this going to return to 2004 [00:43:20]
(crosstalking) 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I'm just worried that like, now, I, I just, I'm tired of these moments. I know that other people maybe have these kinds of moments. That other people aren't robots you know. But I just, man, just something triggering me to just start crying like that. I felt kind of, I felt really kind of edgy and frazzled and, just, yeah, just it bothers me. 
THERAPIST: So one way to start thinking of those moments when they happen is that they are memories. They're not, what's happening right now. They are memories that your body has stored up, that are getting released by something. They are triggered by something in what's actually happening now. But there's something old that's being remembered. It doesn't have words yet, your body has it. I don't think it's going to run the show. I just think you are in a different place now Brian. I really feel confident about that. I don't think that means that you're not going to have a lot of intense feelings and you may, you know have a long hours on feeling that way one time. But as you keep reminding both of us, you are getting up, you're going to work, you have been taking increasingly, taking care of more and more things in your life. It hasn't been that things have started to lean. It might mean that something's you don't do for a little while. Like there might be certain things that you turn down because you just don't feel like it. And I don't, I don't think that's a bad, that's bringing you back to 2004. It actually be you need new space inside, or alone, or in here you don't want to put on the happy face when you are in a bad mood. There's nothing wrong with that. [00:45:03] You know, we'll keep an eye on it, if it starts to feel like it's too destabilizing. I just think that you've come a very, very long way, and so far, as you've been doing this process, you've only in some ways keep organizing and structuring things more and more in your life, not less. (pause) One of the things that happens is I think as you have more to learn, it oddly organizes you more in your present life. Because it sort of releases the old wishes, that would keep you stuck. You get more on in your reality life right now. Even though you might be feeling more pain (pause) 
CLIENT: (quietly) Yeah that makes sense. (pause) [00:46:01]
THERAPIST: Where are you? What are you feeling now? 
CLIENT: Yeah I'm just listening. You know a little mixed
THERAPIST: You're starting
CLIENT: What's that? 
THERAPIST: You're starting to look really sad. 
CLIENT: Yeah I am. I was going to say, that annoys me. (laughter) Because my friend did that on Facebook too. I was like you're not fucking helping. I was venting about this, and she's like are you ok over there? I'm like, yeah you know. She's like, you just seem, she's like I don't know, you just seem, I was like what? She's like, you don't seem like the regular, confident Brian. And I was like, well, that's not helping now. (laughter) 
THERAPIST: That's what, now here we have something really interesting. I'm so glad you said this. On the one hand someone doesn't see what's going on inside you, and they are self centered, right. They are preoccupied with themselves, they are not reaching out they are not caring for you. On the other hand, if they see and they know and they inquire, you feel really uncomfortable about having been seen. [00:47:07]
CLIENT: I, I, I think it's different to be like, how are you doing, are you ok, I think, yeah, for some reason I've always, when people say you look sad, or whatever, I just, that annoys me, because I feel like, well that's, it's like saying you're wearing boots. Like I'm sure I do (chuckle) that's not here nor there, I mean no sho- no shit. I probably am sad, (chuckle) you know like, I feel like that— or someone says oh you don't seem very confident' Oh, well I do now, now I feel totally confident . Like, 
THERAPIST: So does it feel humiliating. 
CLIENT: Yeah it kind of feels like, Well it just, I feel like it's pointing out the obvious, One. Two by pointing out the obvious it's just creating a, you know if you tell a leper that oh, so man, you have leprosy huh, it's like well, no shit, I have leprosy, like, how about, you know what I mean, it doesn't help I think. It's different than like how are you doing? Can I do something? I just think there are other ways to bring things up, rather than just, cause those things are all labels basically. What if I'm just weird and I look sad all the time, but I'm not even sad? You know what I mean. [00:48:20]
THERAPIST: Yeah
CLIENT: Stuff like that has just always bothered me. You know. No doubt, that's also a very old thing because it sort of reminds me of old criticism and you know, also because I hate complaining, I hate people who complain, it's, it's all that stuff you know. So, 
THERAPIST: There's a lot of that
CLIENT: There's a lot of that. Yeah, yeah, yeah
THERAPIST: It feels like a criticism I think, 
CLIENT: Yeah, Yeah it does. But in general, I still stand by it though. On the, I just think, because I'm careful not to do that because I, if my friend looks sad. I might say it I guess if they already started talking about how sad they are. But I just feel like, how's that gonna help them for me to say they look sad. It's just going to make them feel like (inaudible) Great I look kind of shitty and sad, you know. I don't know. Again, That's one of those very sensitive. [00:49:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah and I think it's, if you've had an upbringing where that kind of observation is a criticism, it would make you feel like "no shit" you know lay off me. Right. If you had an upbringing where that meant, wow my mom is seeing me and would feel holding and caring and she noticed and now I get to burst into tears and go run give a hug, you know. That that would feel really, really different, it would just feel loving, somebody cares, somebody sees, somebody's actually helping me find my affective state that I'm having trouble articulating and it would open things up. I hear you say it doesn't 'feel that way right now. 
CLIENT: No
THERAPIST: It feels almost objectifying. 
CLIENT: Yeah (pause) Or yeah, or it feels like suddenly there's a spotlight on you. Oh, well you look sad, you look tired, you look whatever, you know. or you don't seem that confident this time, yeah whatever. Yeah it's like you know settle down. (laughter) But you are totally right, I never had that, there's never been on single moment in my life where I had, With my dad too, I mean I never had that. Where I could go and seem sad and then, you know there's, my family doesn't have that. Everyone in my family is all about like, if you told them you were sad, t hey wouldn't just say snap out of it, but they'll make it worse, by, oh, what, you know like. You know what I mean, they will just turn it in to, it's just be like let's talk, like, you know if you say like you have cold, you know, ahh its a cold, you know don't go out of the house dressed, you know like everything becomes a fucking stressful, you know what I mean. So that whatever you said initially where yeah I have a cold, that's forgotten. And the sudden fucking cacophony of neuroses and weirdness, you know what I mean. So, it's, no, I've never had that, where I could be like I'm sad and I could just have good cry and be like, oh my mom, my dad they get me or whatever. [00:51:32]
CLIENT: Let's call it a day 
THERAPIST: Okay, I didn't stop at the bank, so can I do it on Monday can I, 
THERAPIST: Sure, sure 
CLIENT: Okay, at 3:10,
THERAPIST: Yes. 
CLIENT: Have a good weekend. 
THERAPIST: You too. 
END TRANSCRIPT
