TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Side 1, track 2; side 1, track 2. Interview number two; interview number two.
CLIENT: Well, I spent a lot of time trying to figure out what I was going to talk about to you today and there's (inaudible at 0:00:24.0) a whole lot of kind sort of uncomfortableness around (inaudible at 0:00:33.7)...
COUNSELOR: Feeling the need is the uncomfortableness around feeling the need and to kind of think about it - 
CLIENT: To have to - 
COUNSELOR:  - and figure something out?
CLIENT: You... yeah, like to have, to have something to say, like a contrived sort of thing, you know, like - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah like it... you're uncomfortable with the idea that it feels kind of... you have to redo some ambiguity or something. You need to have to come up with some kind of map or plan or.... [0:01:00.3]
CLIENT: Well, when... just not necessarily that m-... that just that there's... that I should have something to say and something that perhaps relates to, do you know what I, what I want to work out and just kind of the anxiety about what all... what the hell am I going to have to say.
COUNSELOR: You feeling anxious now?
CLIENT: Yeah, I am. I.. something did happen though that, that, that I figured may be someplace to start with.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let me - before you start with that - let me ask you, do you feel... well, what do you think it would feel like if you came in at a loss?
CLIENT: Well I would - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - just sit here... I'd have to sit here and wait until you had something to - 
COUNSELOR: Until something hit you.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:01:57.8]
COUNSELOR: Important to you, but I guess that feels pretty... an anxious situation. Kind of like you feel like, I guess, and part of this is like, it's you've been here once, you don't like feel ease and need some kind of... something to hold onto, that's a something to talk about.
CLIENT: Yeah yeah like I do (inaudible at 0:02:23.5) I'm really pretty uncomfortable. (Silence) I guess I have, I (inaudible at 0:02:38.4) some questions about you also.
COUNSELOR: And what were they like?
CLIENT: Well one of the things I feel is that we're (ph), do you listen to the tapes?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Not not every one, I mean....
CLIENT: And I guess I wondered whether, whether you make any kind of a preparation in your mind of something like when there's somebody coming in and talk to them? [0:03:04.9]
COUNSELOR: No. You're not a preparation about things to talk about substantive things so much as a how that a... so much as that hour sounded. But in like things that I did.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Did you understand what I - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - it may not be clear to you, but....
CLIENT: Yeah I think I understand what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: But the point is about as far as things to talk about in this... I was telling you last time, about what you talk about, what's most important to you and that's something that you - 
CLIENT: Right. I guess - 
COUNSELOR:  - it's important for you to know that and me not to tell you what's important for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, right. I guess but what I thought is, do you really give any consideration to what was said last time we get together you know and - 
COUNSELOR: It's in my, it's in here but I don't know if that's what you mean. [0:04:02.2]
CLIENT: Yeah, sort of, that, that you at least... I guess it's sort of in a... that you've taken some of the things I've said and given some thought to them and perhaps in your mind given some thought to where I am and but you know like an, analysis - 
COUNSELOR: Oh.
CLIENT:  - of what kind of thing I (crosstalk) - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's something we here don't tend to kind of analysis. I don't know if it's from your background in teaching or where it, it is kind of more analytically oriented we [see here] (ph), (inaudible at 0:04:41.4) we're not here, so just, I guess what you're asking is that can I give you some insightful thing.
CLIENT: No, that you should give it to me, but just that I guess I feel like you ought to be processing what some of the things - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I, I, yeah - 
CLIENT:  - I say -  [0:05:01.2]
COUNSELOR:  - I process them and I - 
CLIENT:  - (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR:  - process them as you say and I think I did say quite a few things for you last week.
CLIENT: Okay. I, I would like to talk about this... some things that did happen during the week because I think they have some relation to what we were saying last week and I guess du... in the process of I was a little more conscious of whether I had any feelings about what went on. Been working with this girl who decided to take her out of the home and last - 
COUNSELOR: Is this from the group of girls you work without and (crosstalk) [0:05:49.1] - 
CLIENT: Yeah, except, yeah, Albany, yeah, except she was in the group, she's not in the group. I've been working with her on an individual basis for a while and decided like there was no way she could get herself straightened out living with her parents because her mother is really sick and it, if looks to be, or it is, it's like the home is just a pathological place (ph). So Thursday we got together and we were talking and we talked about her leaving home before and decided to move on it last week and I went over to her house Thursday night and got her and took her to someone else's home for the weekend and then we placed her in a treatment place Sunday. And I went with her, she and her parents, Sunday to the place where she's going to be living.
COUNSELOR: Did you take her with? I'm not sure I got one (inaudible at 0:06:48.8) than that. Her parents were up for - 
CLIENT: They've - 
COUNSELOR:  - (crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - they've agreed, to finally agreed to do this and like I had all sorts of, like it was really uncomfortable to go over to her house and take her out of the home in terms of I sort of had recollections of, "God, what'd it have been like if I were 16 and somebody and I was leaving home" and I felt re... I guess mostly I felt uncomfortable and like I, I just sort of wanted to hug Nancy and let her know that - 
COUNSELOR: There's someone there.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it was all right and out of it also I developed this tremendous hate and anger for her mother, you know, I just can't stand her mommy because I think her mother has like just had a lot to do with Ann's being where she is. And so Sunday when we went over to this place, we had - while Ann was in for an interview - like we had to sit around and I had to sit there with her mother and father and I, and all I could think, like I was probably very rude to her in terms of not speaking to her because I can't stand the woman and I guess one of the conscious things that comes to mind is that I really, I really felt anger like it was really there. And like I didn't say anything to her, I couldn't say anything to her because it wouldn't have been very pleasant and I just didn't want to say anything to her and all that I could do is like go home and shout and yell at everybody how, how angry this woman made me and how much I just hated this woman and I guess I was very conscious of the fact that I was really disliking someone a great deal. [0:08:38.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and feeling it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think so.
COUNSELOR: Really - 
CLIENT: And then I had mixed feelings about how much, how much I really cared about Ann and I guess it's not necessary that I care a lot, except that having taken her from her family -with her consent, I mean not really just taking but it was...[ 0:09:01.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, were you someone there kind of who was really there to be counted on. Like when you say you wanted to hug her, but like that was really how real...
CLIENT: I think it was real, like I think I really felt that I wanted her to know I really supported her, that I really cared about her, that I, that what I was going through some of the fears she had about leaving home, I think. Now as, like Sunday approached, all kinds of things happened during the week and like I heard from her and I just don't, and I begin to wonder whether it became a mechanical thing, just as part of a job and it's just a really confusing thing that I'm not sure whether it's real feelings of concern or it just becomes a mechanical -  [0:09:59.0]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, is the concern there, do I really care for her or do I really feel I should care for her?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, right and that like I have to care for her because it's my job and I've never done this before and that's kind of exciting, go through something which you've not done before.
COUNSELOR: But the difference is kind of coming naturally or something because of an obligation, a duty.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it - 
COUNSELOR: You should care.
CLIENT:  - yeah and it goes over not just to that because that's a job situation, I think it goes over also to my personal friends.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what you were saying last time you were talking about like, can I really care, can I really love.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I just, it's kind of confusing. I'm not sure because on one hand I think I really do care in that example, like I really do care about Ann, I care what happens to her and I want her to... and I really want her to be happy with herself, like herself and stuff like that and then this thing kinds of creeps into the mind, do I really care or is it just a, like you said, like an obligation. [0:11:11.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like I really sense, like when... you kind of stand back from yourself and look at what you're feeling, you question... you really question it's basis and it makes you real confused because you don't know what's real. You don't know if that's you or if you can care for people in general or are you doing it for some other reason because you feel you should.
CLIENT: Yeah, that makes me think of that, as I, you know, like as I was growing up, got... went to college and stuff like that, I always to be a, an individual, an independent person, an individual and not like everybody else and I was very conscious of things I did - or at least I thought I was, if I was consciously doing things because I wanted to be an individual. And when it finally came that people did recognize me as, like a different person, very recognizably different from a lot of other people, I began to wonder if I was really, that I was different or is it just kind of a fa�ade because I wanted it to be that way. [0:12:21.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, were you putting something over on yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, or other people - 
COUNSELOR: Because you wanted - 
CLIENT:  - too, like both ways.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like you don't know really know what's real in you and if I'm... who you are, whether that's you or something else.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that really hits things kind of what I had. I also thought in the process of determining where I'm going to go, what I want to do with my life, I decided I don't want to live like my parents in suburbia and all that kind of crap. I don't want to live that kind of life, I want to live a different kind of life. On the other hand, I'm not so sure, I mean how much that is a thing I think I should want to do or is real. [0:13:08.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I understand (ph) what, what you're saying is like have I chosen those things from really inside what's right for myself or am I choosing because I think well I should reject that or I should want something else. And again it's the question of what, who am I, what do I want type inside myself and what's really me as opposed to things that aren't really me but I feel I should be or should not be.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's very much what it... what qu... kind of questions it is.
COUNSELOR: But, like that must, I mean I imagine like kind of... that kind of questions must be incredibly disorienting. Because it, it l... it's like very fundamental in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it is and that, like it's perhaps more confusing than anything else. [0:14:01.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, confusing 
CLIENT: I tend to, sometimes like it gets very depressing not really understanding... then I can rationalize it and say well you know that's a part out of finding yourself, growing up kind of crap
COUNSELOR: Yeah and a kind of (inaudible at 0:14:20.0) but I also sense that it can really make you feel down when you realize - 
CLIENT: It doesn't - 
COUNSELOR:  - you don't have that sense of yourself.
CLIENT:  - it doesn't do anything.
COUNSELOR: It's like you can say well I'm going through some, some hard times, some confusing times and they're depressing, but that's natural but it maybe can help for a while, but it doesn't take away some of the confusion and depression that - 
CLIENT: Well like what it basic... it doesn't solve it, it doesn't even really answer the confusion or anything like that. it just sort of kind of covers up for a while if what (ph) goes on. I guess il...one thing that just was going through my mind as I've said this to you is like... and like okay, I guess from what you've said this isn't the way you work and all, but I keep wondering well okay, ho... what do you th... what do you think about that kind of... how does that strike you? I... [0:15:19.8]
COUNSELOR: When you say how does it strike me, I'm not sure I know what you mean.
CLIENT: Well, okay, having said that, that like I'm not sure what's real about me and what's not.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know, like, well what do... what's that... where does that hit you. What does what do you think about that kind of thing? And I'm not... I don't, I don't mean to... I don't think I'm trying to reverse - 
COUNSELOR: No, no - 
CLIENT:  - things.
COUNSELOR: No, no, I'm just, I'm trying to understand what you mean by how does - 
CLIENT: (Inaudible at 0:15:52.2) what do you think about that? Like...
COUNSELOR: I really understand what you're saying about... what I think about that, that's like what you're saying sounds very big. Do you know what I mean? I mean it's very fundamental and like as you said it, I was kind of thinking you really do feel very, very unsure of yourself and like there must be a lot of feelings in there about that, which I don't know about, but you know you did say depression and [we'll have to be seeing more about that in] (ph) confusion. That was what was hitting me as you said it. It's like, if I felt that way about myself then I could really see feeling pretty lost at times.
CLIENT: That, I guess that's why sometimes I wonder if I'm just doing things mechanically because when I spend time considering a sort of confusion about where I am, what's real and what's not real about me and then I wonder well God I go day by day and I do all these things and I wonder what, how mechanical is that without knowing how I feel about it. Sometimes I just going into a question. [0:17:21.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, do you feel like... you when you kind of s... might just step to look at it you may be going through the motions of living?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Without really being yourself in (inaudible at 0:17:30.1) and how are you.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, just go... I don't know how much it's even just going... well yeah, I guess it would be just going through motions of living and, except that I don't like to think that because that's really, like that's like... I guess I have all these, I don't know if they're fears I guess I would say like, there are all these fears about the way society seems to mold people into being just mechanical persons and you just do things. It's grind out day by day living and it just becomes the motions of living and the question is well if that's just the motions of living, well the, when am I living? You know, when am I being alive.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that's what you're also questioning, whether you really are alive, it's like it's hard when I said that thing about going through the motions of life, you kind of wheeled back in a way. [0:18:27.8]
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But that sounded very scary, but also you are asking that, too, like am I being mechanical, am I, feelings things as in (ph) like with these things I mean not having meaningful experiences come from myself.
CLIENT: Yeah, I, I guess I get a, I'm sort of defensive because I like to think having... it's sort of contradictory in that, well wow, I must, like I got to have some feelings, I just can't accept that I'm just totally emotion, an emotion (ph) mechanically.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that would kind of like really feel devastating for you if you felt that way about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:19:06.9]
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense you're feeling some kind of upset thought, like it.
CLIENT: Yeah, it is, I and I don't know... it, it goes to the problem like well I don't know what the hell to do. How to look at myself and...
COUNSELOR: Why don't, why don't we go back a second, just a second if we had to look like when I saw you kind of feeling upset at the thought like that you might be mechanical, what was, what was that like?
CLIENT: Mmm, scary, I guess. Because I think in a lot of ways I'm kind of a cold person. And I've been told that and what that does is suggest that I just really am and I don't... I just don't -  [0:20:04.6]
COUNSELOR: That's - 
CLIENT:  - want to be that way.
COUNSELOR: You know, like when people tell you you're cold, it's kind of like (inaudible at 0:20:10.5), it's really impossible to accept because it really kind of really strikes you deep.
CLIENT: Yeah, I rationalize it, or I get defensive about it and say, well, I'm not always that way, I'm not always cold and insensitive and I feel like I've grown in a way, even some ways being more sensitive, but that goes back to being sensitive because I should be sensitive.
COUNSELOR: Right, how sensitive are you really?
CLIENT: And I'm... yeah, yeah, and it doesn't answer whether I really am or its - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I sense that it's kind of like when people say you're cold or insensitive it's like it... you try to rationalize, but there's a place where it really kind of feels like it hits true inside yourself and causes you kind of feel really upset like maybe that is true. [0:21:05.6]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, and I don't know whether it is or not, I just, I don't know. Like that's, that's very depressing.
COUNSELOR: Can you say more (inaudible at 0:21:23.8)?
CLIENT: Well, thinking about a person being cold and not being able to understand or feel emotions in relationship to other people strikes me as a pretty wrong thing, or not... unfortunate, sad thing - 
COUNSELOR: And that person - 
CLIENT:  - and I don't want to be that person.
COUNSELOR:  - yeah, that pers... but that then that person may be you.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. And I guess I really feel that like really deep inside being very depressed about it. [0:22:07.8]
COUNSELOR: Scared?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Feeling kind of, just, is there a sense of that's, oh I'm really worthless and kind of (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I suppose it goes to the point of saying, well what the hell am I doing just being alive if, if that's true - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - there's no sen... you know, like there's no sense in trying to have friends or relating to people because you can't give something to them if you, if you're just cold and all... if I'm that way. I don't know what el... how else to describe... how else to talk about it except that and it's really depressing and I guess when I'm depressed I don't care to talk about, talk to anybody and I sort of become reclusive.
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT: You know, and I just, and I do I just withdraw and I decide - 
COUNSELOR: You're afraid and you don't want that to happen. [0:22:58.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, afraid, yeah, but it becomes a fear and I... sometimes what I'll do is I'll just off by myself and decide well I'll just do some thinking on my own or reading and be by myself so that I don't have to bother other people, so I don't spread my depression to somebody else.
COUNSELOR: You feel like, no like it's bad to be depressed because it's hard on other people? You're not likeable that way?
CLIENT: Yeah. Not so much that it's hard on other people is that it's... you... I think when I'm depressed I don't say much, I'm probably irritable and I don't like to be that way to people, I, but it's much easier when people are friendly to you and talk to you and have something to say than when they walk around looking like they're really depressed. Last week, I... like last week, I don't know what night Monday, Tuesday or something like that I, I guess Monday night and Wednesday night I was really depressed and what I did was I just drunk and I just didn't, didn't talk to anybody. After I got drunk I was able to talk to people and was kind of silly and then I th... I just went to bed. And I don't usually do that when I'm depressed like, I don't usually sit down and drink so I just, it was a m... I felt like doing that. [0:24:21.9]
COUNSELOR: I have a sense it's not really from anything specific you're saying but like as you're kind of talking about these things, and the doubts and you're a cold person and my concern (ph) (inaudible at 0:24:34.3) very upsetting talking about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know how... it seems to me like every time I start talking about it, I'm not sure how much I'm feeling about it as much as I am, as verbalizing - 
COUNSELOR: Talking about it.
CLIENT:  - it. Yeah, just talking about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that was kind of my sense like, I don't know, I noticed like when you start to talk about like feeling like you're a cold person, what you did was you made it, you changed like from talking I to -  [0:25:09.8]
CLIENT: Somebody else.
COUNSELOR:  - somebody else. It's like you wanted or, it was, felt upsetting and you kind of wanted to push it away from yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How does, how does that hit you?
CLIENT: Well, yeah, that's the truth, that's the way I guess it is, is... like my roommate and I were talking last night and I think I mentioned to her - the one that I, that I'm sort of close, but she's got... like she kind of has trouble expressing the way she feels every - and we were talking about it and like I sort of... one feeling that went through me is like, it seems to me as we're talking and I ought to be crying because I feel really bad - 
COUNSELOR: But there you were talking about (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT:  - and talking about it made it objectified and took away the feeling about it. [0:25:59.9]
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like when you talk, it takes away, jump away from the feelings that are inside you. It's kind of the feeling now, too, I guess what you're saying.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, it really is, and one of the things that came out was that, like in my relationship with Don it's like he can express the way he feels and when he's, when he's feeling very loving and then he can express it; when he's angry, he doesn't always express it because it just creates a fight sometimes. But, like... and I'll sit there when I'm feeling something like when I'm feeling like I really want to be hugging him or I want to cry, I want to talk about something that's very upsetting and I can't say anything and I just feel like he should by osmosis be able to know that I'm feeling something and I can't say it, I just can't even open my mouth to say it. I just sit there and he'll know something's wrong or something's up and I can't say it. [0:26:59.6]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it's like you really feel like you can't express and kind of be at one with your feelings and share that with someone.
CLIENT: Yeah, that, yeah. Oh wait, say that again.
COUNSELOR: It's like you really feel like you can't be at one with what you're feeling and express it and re... and share that with someone.
CLIENT: Yeah, like, you're saying like once I talk about it, it throws it into another...
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure about that, but it's kind of like, I'm not sure what the sequence is. Like you're saying well if I talk about it, it removes it and I'm saying well you just don't talk about it, like you're, I don't know if it's afraid to talk about it or afraid to share, don't know how to do it. Fear that you won't be able to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it's, I guess it's that. (Silence) I don't know if it's those, I don-I suspect maybe it is, but I don't know. [0:28:09.7]
COUNSELOR: You don't know, yeah. But what does it, what does it feel like when you feel like take... like you feel like you're crying on the inside, but can't express it? I mean, what goes through your mind, what happens? Like when you were getting, or like when you said you were feeling upset but it was kind of like you... it didn't kind of come and your words kind of seemed put (ph) away from it. I know that's real difficult.
CLIENT: I don't know. I sometimes I feel it's inappropriate. I just, like I'm so afraid that so much of what I do and the way I am is out of what's expected of me. [0:29:07.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that would be inappropriate, like people can respond to me like they did in college. And what may be... you may be saying is while I'm not living quite that way, but there, there's some similarity like acting a way so that people like me. I don't know if they'll be there and kind of pick me up if I'm upset. I don't know what they'll think about me. I'm scared of that.
CLIENT: Yeah. That, as well, as just well they don't expect that from me and I can't... I guess I'm what a, I am what I am because of what other people expect me, rather than what I, well that's where the confusion comes in - 
COUNSELOR: Yes, but - 
CLIENT:  - as well, I know (inaudible) its. [0:29:56.3]
COUNSELOR: But you're leaving yourself off in a corner and that's the net effect of all that. You know you're leaving... you're leaving your hugs inside yourself, you're leaving your tears inside yourself. Which are you, you are those things. It's like what you were saying last time, when I feel things, I really feel alive and express them. Not going through motions.
CLIENT: Yeah, right. I, (silence) don't know where I am in with its (ph)  - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's a whole lot confusing things (crosstalk) - [0:30:54.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know whether... I, again, I sense, I'm thinking like I was talking about being an impatient person about what... where I'm going to go, what I'm going to do and I'm thinking well, it doesn't necessarily suggest to me that I... that I have to try to be conscious of myself more and not conscious of what other people expecting or then again maybe it is. And maybe trying to take some risks around that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like trying to take some risks like if I feel like crying, I feel like crying.
CLIENT: And do it.
COUNSELOR: And do it, yeah.
CLIENT: But probably what happens is I do that by myself then and it doesn't become something I can do in the presence of other people. [0:31:59.1]
COUNSELOR: But that's a different... that's something different than those two things.
CLIENT: Yeah. See I can, I think I can be by myself and cry - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but what you're saying - 
CLIENT:  - when I'm depressed.
COUNSELOR:  - when people think I'm insensitive or cold because they also don't see the emotional side of you. And (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Well I was like, well, I was, I guess I was thinking I just don't give people much of an opportunity to see me with a, when I want to cry or when I want to say something to them, share a depression or share a... and I'm, I was just thinking, I can, I can share joy pretty much, I think. As a result of what went on last Thursday and like I guess I was really relieved that this had worked out with this girl. It's been sort of a goal for quite a while and very shaky, whether it was going to come about and I was... like she's never called me even though I've left that opportunity open and she called me Saturday to tell me that... well one of the complications that had come up that she thought she might be pregnant and she wouldn't be able to get in this place if she's pregnant and she called to say that she had an appointment and she wasn't. She had an appointment for an interview and she wasn't pregnant and I felt like I was really glad for those things and I could go, but, go home and say, jump around and say this is really great and I really feel good about it, but it was something cheerful. [0:34:03.6]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like for good things it's okay, but that's kind of like being able to.. well respond to people that I guess when they feel joy, just (ph) like you do have sad feelings inside yourself, but you really don't know what to do with them at this point (inaudible at 0:34:21.9).
CLIENT: You know, it also occurs to me that when people are able to talk to me about being unhappy and discouraged or depressed or whatever it is, I have a hard time responding to that and like I'm feeling like I ought to be supportive or you know how it feels, but I don't know what to say and perhaps there's nothing I can say.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: And I wonder if - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk) kind of be left out in the cold like that if you (crosstalk) [0:34:56.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I'm wondering if I don't do that because I'm a, that they'll be uncomfortable and not know what to say either. Because perhaps there's really nothing, I don't know if there's anything you can say to make a feel, person feel more comfortable or at least feel that it's okay to be depressed and it's okay for you to share your depression with me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you really don't know if people will be there when you might... you don't know if people can be there with you when your feeling badly and people you can share those things with people and it's like you do have depressed, upsetting feelings, I mean the feelings like when you talk about your doubts about yourself (inaudible at 0:35:45.9) those are big things. And it's kind of like they're hard for you to get into in some way because they're... you can talk about them.
CLIENT: Yeah, I can talk about them.
COUNSELOR: But like that's what you're saying, like as, you were talking about them to me you weren't feeling them as, like they were coming there, they had those feelings sort of inside then talking about them became talking about them, not from them. [0:36:12.1]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what happens every lot (ph) when we... I can talk about those feelings but I don't know if they're there anymore and I don't know if the feelings are really being shared or it's just the words that are coming out. Yesterday when we took this girl we were... I was talking to some of the residents at the place and this one woman and I got talking and she was talking about one of her problems is confronting people and being honest with people about the way she feels about them and, okay we were talking about them and I was identifying it with some similar feelings, but it wasn't, it was like words talking about words and saying things -  [0:37:22.0]
COUNSELOR: It was like they was, they were kind of intellectualizations or (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - really kind of prevented the real things themselves from coming out. They got in the way, they were protective, they were (background noise) words (ph) 
CLIENT: Yeah, like I guess - 
COUNSELOR: You feel like that's your style in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, like the words are just not the emotion and I don't know, once I start to describe the emotion it's gone or it's in another dimension kind of thing and if I can express emotion without words, it comes out more real. [0:38:03.6]
COUNSELOR: Like if you can cry.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Or hug.
CLIENT: yeah, right. And - 
COUNSELOR: I noticed the hug one seemed a little easier for you to agree with.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I don't usually cry with other people and I can feel a closeness to people when I can hug them, you know? And just sort of a understanding, of care. If that kind of a physical reaction can take place. But most times it takes place if someone else is accepting of it. I don't reach out with that kind of an action unless I'm pretty sure someone else is going to accept it. [0:39:08.1]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's (inaudible) 
CLIENT: Yeah. Something had occurred to me before and I forgot what it was. I begin to wonder if having feelings and emotions involves being able to be physically in touch with people.
COUNSELOR: Well, it may, I mean I kind of sense like if I was... let me go back to what was happening before earlier, like when I was saying some things about yourself and you talk about yourself being cold, insensitive, I kind of said some things back to you like I could see you getting upset about yourself, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And depressed or, but it was more an active (ph) kind of upset and then it was kind of like you jumped away from it. I don't know if you saw it that way. [0:40:04.2]
CLIENT: Uh-huh, I - 
COUNSELOR: Well it was kind of - 
CLIENT:  - I, w - 
COUNSELOR:  - that was the thing I was pointing out, you know, then you say well if someone's a cold person, then they're... then you kind of removed it from yourself. I don't know if you remember - 
CLIENT: Yeah, when I was talking about myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, rather - 
CLIENT: in the third-person - 
COUNSELOR:  - I mean do you remember, did you feel a kind of upset at some point? I mean I sense like when we were talking about those things - 
CLIENT: I don't know, I can't remember. I don't know whether I, like I can think of coming over here to talk about myself is sort of upsetting. Sitting down and using the words to talk about myself sort of objectifies it and almost takes away the upsetness and the reality of whether - 
COUNSELOR: You're upset.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And kind of like really inside you are upset. Just not sure of that? [0:41:03.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know I, I guess so. I can probably walk out of here and think of things that were said and get upset or get depressed and whatever and if I talk about it, yeah, it's sort of like, what, a relief, relieving it. It doesn't take away the upsetness, but - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that, yeah, that's right because it doesn't come from it, which is the kind of thing that kind of changes it, it kind of more pushes it away, cools it off, puts a damper on it, shuts it down, turns you off inside and turns on your head, (crosstalk) like that. [0:41:48.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, what, I've always seen it like - and maybe this has something to do with it - like I remember growing up and being kind of I guess the intellectual of my family. My father's a... I always thought, yeah, he's a very smart person, he knew something about everything and my two older brothers, one of them finally finished college by going to night school and the other one never went to college and, I was always told I'm the smart one in the family, the booker, and so I sort of began to strive for being an intellectual kind of thing and so it's ea... so that it's part of, I don't know if that's really what I am, if I really am intellectual or if it's another kind of growth out of an expectation and being intellectual in some ways to me suggests objectifying things and...
COUNSELOR: Whether it's real or whether it's done because of expected, I mean do you see yourself objectively, because I mean that is kind of how you do operate, that is with the (crosstalk) with your experience. You kind of take it away and look at it and look at it kind of almost like a, not quite, but it's something like it's a, there's like a calculus problem. [0:43:17.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, it w-
COUNSELOR: And something that affect is that the emotions that are in (inaudible at 0:43:22.2) those experience just get sealed off when you remove from yourself. What really is important for you that's really there.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's all of it, I... and I was just thinking when you said, yeah the calculus thing I was also thinking, well does it possibly also become like I'm one person and there's another person, you know another person talking, when it comes out verbally as another person, it's putting things in third-person about. [0:44:01.9]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: Where I am, who I am, and how I feel about myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like you're not even talking for yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. But, but I am, I don't know that - 
COUNSELOR: How does, how does that make you like to think with kind of that's the way you may be, how does that make you feel?
CLIENT: I don't know, I really don't know.
COUNSELOR: Don't know what to do.
CLIENT: Confu-confusing. I guess I feel that what I have to do is try and bring it together and make it part, not part of, but make it myself a one person rather than...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm feeling, starting to feel a little disturbed because I somehow feel the way we're talking is very much what we're talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah it is, I guess it is.
COUNSELOR: Do you see that? [0:44:59.3]
CLIENT: I guess sort of.
COUNSELOR: I mean like I had it... it was... I was... I have the feeling almost like the two of us are looking at you - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - not in a, I, it felt very differently like when you were talking about yourself about like how you did feel unsure about yourself and kind of scared that you were a cold person, there was something different about that. It probably felt different to you, too, I mean it felt different to me on that.
CLIENT: Well I don't know if I - 
COUNSELOR: It's more like you were closer bringing those two together.
CLIENT: Yeah, I see it, I think you're right. I do see, sort of see... wonder... I'm not sure what I, like I see what you mean when you say suggest that we're looking at me, I'm not sure if I identify... I don't know if I can identify the difference. [0:46:01.7]
COUNSELOR: Because why? Because it's so much a way of life for you perhaps.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I don't even know... I... what strikes me is I don't even know whether I, whether coming, having talked about the one experience last week if that isn't even looking at myself rather than being myself. Maybe that's what I always do is just look at myself, rather than... I don't know if I can tell the difference, I don't know if there's a difference between looking at myself and I don't even know what words to use about being myself, if I need to, if that's it or what.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, is what you're saying like well I'm so, maybe I'm so just so used to living it, living looking at myself that I don't know what it would mean for me to really feel kind of alive and be talking from myself. It's kind of what you were talking about with -  [0:47:09.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, in fact I don't even... I'm not even sure I know what, what that means. Does it looking at myself and talking about myself or talking from myself. I don't even know what that, I don't know what that means.
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, well yeah, it's like, which don't you know, the talking from yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess it's kind of in part like what you were saying before like I feel like I go through things on the k... I... going through the motions of mechanically, I don't remember (inaudible at 0:47:36.7) but, better word for it but it's kind of like that's part of it in a way, all being in relationships than not like the, this girl talking about things but really you should be crying or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, it, it was almost as though like we were both talking about ourselves, looking at ourselves and not being able to -  [0:48:06.9]
COUNSELOR: To really be there.
CLIENT:  - to share a feeling really (inaudible at 0:48:11.7) about that.
COUNSELOR: Right, yeah, in other words, like the words were right but, but you weren't, they removed really what emotions that were there.
CLIENT: Yeah, but that, but that's always the way it is, like I can't... I'm... like I guess I have been trying to think of is when do I talk from myself or... and I, the only place I can even come close to that is my relationship with Don it's because it's the closest relationship, the most intimate relationship I have and if I'm myself with anybody, or if I'm a real person with anybody, it's with him. And I think that's real, I think I have a lot of faith in that being real. And I don't think it always, I think for a long time I went through the same kinds of things as I do talking about myself or looking at myself with my roommate. But when I try to think of, okay, well how do you feel when you're with him, how do I feel when I'm with him as being myself, what makes that real and what makes other things not so real. And I don't know, I guess one thing is that I guess I really believe he believes in me. [0:49:42.5]
COUNSELOR: and you can be you, too, probably more, that enables you to be more open than you...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I mean I, like I feel like I know him very well and I trust him and most of the time I guess I trust him with what I feel about myself. (Silence) And I get... one of the things that raises in my mind is well, I feel like I ought to also be able to be me or, I don't know what that means, but you know what I, I ought to be able to express what I feel as me, rather than objectifying it, you know with other people. I don't know if, I guess, I'd suggest to me it's sort of a barrier of safety. [0:50:53.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like you put a wall around yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because you keep other people away and keep yourself away.
CLIENT: Yeah, it seems to me - 
COUNSELOR: You keep yourself deadened in a way, too, that - 
CLIENT: Yeah, and it seems to me like people don't see, I don't know, I guess I feel like people don't see through it. It's hard, I guess it's sort of hard - 
COUNSELOR: What if you're unseen.
CLIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: You're unseen in a way. [0:51:15.9]
CLIENT: Yeah or people just see what is superficial about me. Part of it's though it's hard, I guess it's hard to relate to what's here in New York is that I don't feel like have very many close friends in New York, I haven't made much of an attempt to get close to anybody here. And it, if I, if it even to the point of talking about or at, looking at, there's just very few people that I even do that and it's almost as though when I think of yesterday having talked to this complete stranger about things that I... as a stranger, like and it was looking at and it wasn't really me I was talking about. It's almost like I can talk much easier about my difficulties of emotions with people if I don't know them at all and I know I'll never see them again and it's also being said is as and a, in an objective -  [0:52:33.6]
COUNSELOR: In an objective way.
CLIENT:  - rather than understanding what I really feel that way, I don't know, I - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like you're really all confused about - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm feeling, yeah, I feel like I'm really confused, I... more confused. Like even having a bigger question about what might be real and what might not be real.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what really is, is you - 
CLIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR:  - you are and what isn't. What is about you and what is real in you.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I'm, well that's the question well I don't know if there's a difference. Sort of there isn't because it's been so there long that there isn't a difference. But I guess I want there to be a difference. [0:53:38.3]
COUNSELOR: Yes, you want there to be a difference. Like for me the difference is something like I remember saying to you last time and this is more healthy (ph) and this time when you're talking about big things about yourself. You know, who you are, not having a sense of yourself that I, I kind of sense, I had the feeling well my God these are, these are big things, I mean I would feel very upset about them.
CLIENT: Like it'd be really hard to say them.
COUNSELOR: What I might not say them the way you say them. How does that make you feel?
CLIENT: Well I think of like I'm talking about somebody else because I think you're right.
COUNSELOR: But like where are you are that's like what you said because I'm talking about someone else but how is, how do I do it otherwise?
CLIENT: Yeah, I can't.
COUNSELOR: I mean I don't know any other way.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't, I can't right now.
COUNSELOR: Kind of looks like it makes you feel lost. [0:54:44.4]
CLIENT: I think I feel either kind of empty that, that saying... talking about things that are rather close and might be very sensitive to talk about that I just become insensitive to it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it makes you feel badly (ph) empty like, what's there left after kind of the shell.
CLIENT: Yeah, you kn- yeah - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - like last time when I blurted out some things related to what we're talking about now and it was like I felt like, well that's it, put my cards on the table and did it very... without being emotionally upset about it, just saying them and, it may be with the along with the impatience, okay I've said it, now what do I about it or where does it say to you or you know, but that's where it is, I don't know - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you may not know to do with it. [0:55:58.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe it's, I curse me... well maybe that's not... maybe that's not what really the most disturbing thing. I guess I feel like if I'm really going to be disturbed about something to say it ought to be very difficult and it ought to be very hard to bring it out and say it. But it, but it isn't, like they're just things that are there that I thought about a lot.
COUNSELOR: And thought about a lot in the style (ph) you thought about them. You thought them, maybe not felt them.
CLIENT: Well I don't know if that's right, I think I felt them, like I... they... they're things that have come out when I've been really down, really depressed and I've cried about them and been really disturbed about that being the way it is, but once it's gone through that, once I've gone through that, I can t... I can s...verbalize it and I don't know where the feeling is anymore. [0:57:11.5]
COUNSELOR: It's kind of a feeling might have been once there, these things tend to come more or less empty intellectual things.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I just hard... and well it's there and I'm just hard to it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind of harden yourself because it hurts.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it... but it only hurts, it only really hurts when I, when I'm by myself and I think about it and I don't know what to do. I don't know how to work it out or how to make those feelings become alive and, I guess. You know, I don't know how much it really hurts to say it to you now as much as -  [0:58:01.7]
COUNSELOR: As when you felt it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Probably a lot less, but it's like there are, I mean I can sense when you're talking about some of those things, there are feelings there, but they're hard for you to get them. (Inaudible at 0:58:14.6) like they're, you're not getting, starting to get upset and those, those that are... you know they are there.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I can't share them or express them.
COUNSELOR: Do you kind of want to put up the barricade.
CLIENT: The thing is I don't, I want to be able to...
COUNSELOR: You want not to, but you do put up the barricade.
CLIENT: Yeah, I do.
COUNSELOR: Kind of live behind the mask.
CLIENT: Yeah, I do. And I guess even sometimes when I, like I, I'm thinking about being angry at someone, I can't, like just before I left this afternoon, my roommate went out shopping and she came back with some stuff and I said, "Oh, what'd you buy this for? We've already got some." And she said something to me, I don't know what it was, but it made me really angry, it was just sort of, and I didn't say anything to her, I didn't say, "Well you didn't have to say it like that, you know, I was just asking." [0:59:24.3]
COUNSELOR: Kept it inside.
CLIENT: And I didn't say anything to her.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:59:27.1)
CLIENT: And all of a sudden - and this has been happening, that... and I get really depressed like last week, one of the nights I got myself drunk, I was perfectly fine when I came home to have supper and one of my roommates had done all the cooking. Well, we have a thing, the one who does the cooking the other people help for the dishes, you know. So this other girl says, "Well, you have to do all the dishes." You know? And I knew I wasn't the only one that was supposed to do dishes, and I just looked at her and I'd been studying and I've been working really hard and like it, just like that I just was depressed. You know, like I felt like I'd really been attacked.
COUNSELOR: What the hell (ph) can you do with it?
CLIENT: And I didn't say anything to anybody and I just got really depressed and - 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like, when you... like when you see yourself doing that, you're kind of like you really don't like yourself.
CLIENT: I, no, that wasn't what I... that wasn't, it was that I was angry and I didn't say anything to anybody about being angry and I had the feeling, well I guess I shouldn't really be angry about it, it's sort of a stupid thing to get angry about, but it got me really upset and I got really depressed about. [1:00:34.1]
COUNSELOR: Oh, about how upset you got.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. That wasn't a situation where I felt bad about myself except that as, as a result of it, maybe I should have been able to say, "Well, I'm not the only one that has to do dishes." And instead I didn't get angry, I didn't - 
COUNSELOR: Didn't say anything.
CLIENT:  - say anything, I just, and then I got depressed and I got depressed because I didn't say anything and then I got depressed because maybe it was a stupid thing to say something about anyway. And I got depressed and nobody had any idea why, I, all of a sudden got really down. And that same... that was sort of the same kind of thing that was this afternoon, and I didn't say anything and I was angry, then afterward I thought about it, well maybe it was a stupid thing to get angry about anyway and then I just got depressed about it. [1:01:30.8]
COUNSELOR: Kind of feeling (ph) yourself impotent in a way.
CLIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Kind of feeling yourself impotent in a way, you're not doing anything, but yet you get upset for getting, getting depressed for getting upset.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It really upsets you about yourself that you do that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I do that a lot, I go get angry over stupid things, but I don't say anything about it, then I get depressed because it seemed either I should have said something or it's stupid to get upset.
COUNSELOR: It looks like it's kind of... saying that kind of depresses you, too.
CLIENT: Well, more, it seems like well it's a dead-end. Yeah, that's... I just, another kind of confusing thing, I don't understand why, I don't understand why I should k... you know, first of all not say something if I... if it's there; second of all, get depressed for not saying about something or getting upset about it.
COUNSELOR: And it's kind of like another confusing thing about yourself that you just, like kind of disorients you (inaudible at 1:02:59.3) to do it.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I don't know, that suggests saying disorients me is that I wonder if recognizing a feeling and not doing anything about it disorients me or throws me off.
COUNSELOR: Well feelings are kind of big things in life to help you orient yourself.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: Well, kind of a, they're you.
CLIENT: Feelings.
COUNSELOR: Yes. And not, not acting on them or expressing them is kind of throwing away a mocker (ph) of yourself.
CLIENT: Throwing away what?
COUNSELOR: Like a mocker (ph) of yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That thing that is you.
CLIENT: Oh, I see, yeah.
COUNSELOR: We've got to stop. (Inaudible at 1:04:00.0). You're confused with all that, but...
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is the Wednesday at 12:30 a good time?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's okay. Its (inaudible at 1:04:17.1) 
[End Audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
