TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is Interview number four. Interview number four on Tuesday,. 
(Inaudible at 0:17)
PATIENT: Last Tuesday after I left here we sat (ph) at the friend's house and we got into a very heated discussion about John's drinking problems. And I ended up attacking him viciously in front of our friends. And the next day we sat down and had a really great discussion about things that we had been digging at each other about for the last so many years. And everything seemed to surface. And I realized that like about the drinking, I had pushed it and pushed it and pushed it to the point that he found that a lot of times he was doing just to get back at me. 
And we talked about other things that I had brought up and to you about. Things about our sex life and how sometimes I wondered if I know him and got married to him simply because I had sex with him. And it was funny because he said that he was positive that that was why we got married in his eyes. Because I had told my mother and he felt so guilty about the fact that she knew that he sort have had to right it for her. And it really didn't upset me very much. He thought that it would. That's why he'd never told me. But we were positive that was what had caused some of the strain between us along with other things that I felt I had been cheated of like different sexual experiences that he had had. And nothing has happened since then (laughs) in our relationship. It's still the same. But I think it's really because we feel like we have so many other problems to work that that'll just come about naturally. [3:04]
I don't know if it's going to come about. Maybe I'm wrong to feel that way. But that was a big start. It was because it brought a lot of things to the surface that had really been bothering him. And after he had told me and they didn't affect me like he thought they would. He was I think felt so bad that we had never talked about them before. But there were a lot of things that he said about me personally that it wasn't really like criticism this time like it usually is. And it was easier for me to except. 
COUNSELOR: When it was out in the open and (not everything) (ph) like that you could take it? 
PATIENT: It still - some of things that he feels about me still bothers me. But at least I feel more relaxed that he's aware of them. That we can talk about them. It really it did a lot of good in some respects and in other respects I guess it caused some tension. Because we still (inaudible at 4:24) jump at each other. And ...
COUNSELOR: Did the talk cause the tension?
PATIENT: Some of the things that I think came out it because there were still things that put me on the defensive and that I'm sure put him on the defensive. But as far as like our sexual acts together it hasn't been affected and that bothers me. Because I think we're both sort of anticipating a change but it's not happening. And my feeling are still the same about it. And ...
COUNSELOR: So you mean such as things as change through talking to each other? They haven't changed there too? 
PATIENT: Maybe. Although it was funny like we really talked very little about that. It was mostly about the other aspects of our married life. And I - I know that I exposed like with trying to avoid the subject. Because there's really nothing I can say about it without coming out and saying that I don't care to do it. And I can't say that to him because I don't want him to take it personally... which I'm afraid he will. [5:47]
COUNSELOR: Then you would feel that he was maybe inadequate or that I - definitely maybe this would be something that was just going to go on forever and never change? So either you put him down or else you make him feel like it's pretty hopeless.
PATIENT: And the only thing that he did - there were a few times when I tempted to tell him some of the things that I had told you. And I found that I kept things to myself because it had bothered me that I had even talked about it at all. And I really didn't think that I could talk to him about it. And I thought about it a lot and it still bothers me because I can't accept it. I can't accept these strange hang-ups that I have. 
COUNSELOR: And that's just because they seem strange to you?
PATIENT: I mean they seem strange to me personally. I can't. I identify with them and I can't break away from them. I keep trying to channel myself into different directions but it doesn't work. 
COUNSELOR: Stuck you mean in trying to change the way you feel?
PATIENT: And I ... I feel that I would like to be able to talk to him about some of these things because I think maybe you don't hear them because of how words come out. But I just I don't think that he is ready to accept them. And I don't think I'm ready to talk to him about them. I ... I do that as far as ... what I did try bothered me an awful lot. I couldn't get it out of my mind. And perhaps that's why I choose to go at him so heavily that night like I did because I was so upset. And I kept thinking about all that over and over again. [8:33] 
COUNSELOR: What we talked about?
PATIENT: I tried to put everything together in mind and it just coming out the same. That it was ... just so ugly I couldn't forget about it. It was like a bad dream. And I ... I kept thinking of other things that I should have told you like I wish that I would have and it just it really started to work on me. And I'm so choked up but ... 
COUNSELOR: Remembering that they was even more? To tell?
PATIENT: Or more that I felt maybe I should have told. I ... I keep.
(Phone Ringing)
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry. 
(Phone Conversation)
COUNSELOR: Is it too hot in here for you? 
PATIENT: It's warm. 
COUNSELOR: Should we open those windows?
PATIENT: Okay.
(Background Noise)
PATIENT: But from ... from everything that came out last Wednesday I can't ... I still can't feel comfortable because I feel like there's so many things between us. That they're keeping us separated from really being 100 percent honest with each other. And little things keep creeping up but it's not enough to cause me to change. And our differences are there in ... I guess that like for me I know that there's a lot of things that I have to do. Because I'm so wrapped up in what I personally feel about myself and about my own happiness that I'm sort of forgetting about what other people mean to me. [11:19]
COUNSELOR: You mean you've forgotten that about John?
PATIENT: Like.
(Phone Ringing)
COUNSELOR: Oh! Ridiculous.
(Phone Conversation)
PATIENT: No that we just you know it's like I'm so wrapped up in my own feeling that I'm starting to just neglect everything around me. And I find that becoming harder and harder for me to concentrate on other people than my own desires. And like he'll be talking to me about something and I don't even hear him. It's like I'm lost in another world. And it's happening to me more and more. I'm just sort of drifting. And I'm becoming just totally preoccupied with myself. It's frustrating me because I can feel myself doing it and I can't do anything about it. And I ... I don't know. It's funny like when I - I don't know if I'm supposed to talk to him about what I say and hear. But like some of the things that I have mentioned and he'll say well you're supposed to tell her about herself and not about me and about what I do to you. And I started thinking about that. And like I realized that I was really trying to use him as a rationalization for all of my upsets and discomfort with my present situation. And I realized that it's not totally true. [13:46]
COUNSELOR: Like you were using him as the only reason? And there's more to it than that?
PATIENT: Like I think a lot of my unhappiness and my insecure feelings and all that were there long before he ever came into the picture. But it's sort of like I can use him now as a reason for the way that I am. And that's like for sex and everything. And it's really not true. Because like I guess that I have feeling of the inadequacy simply because we don't perform as a married couple. But I know that I'm really not inadequate. And I can't deny that. And I tell him that I feel that I am simply because I don't want to tell him the truth.
COUNSELOR: You tell him that you're?
PATIENT: I tell him that I don't care to have sex because I don't like it. But I realize that I'm just telling him that like to pacify him. To make me - to make it look like that I feel this way about everybody and in fact that's not true. 
COUNSELOR: And you were saying somehow you were just blaming it on him instead of saying (it belonged to you) (ph) in general.
PATIENT: Blaming it on him and also like using him as a - using him and then again like trying to protect him from see that this isn't the way that I feel totally. But that I had gotten away from desiring him and that bothers me. It makes me feel terribly guilty. [16:02]
COUNSELOR: Yeah if you don't tell him that. Like it's always a secret. It's hard.
PATIENT: And I - I can't seem to really like - at times I have trouble facing him even. You know like if we're sitting in the evening and I'll sort of like go into one of these far away stares and I'll be thinking about something or someone else or anything. And I just get this sudden urge to just get up and leave because I can't face him. And the fact that I am almost like living ... a lie or something like that - like I'm not being 100 percent truthful. 
And I think that it kind of really all goes back to what happened with that other fellow. But not so much that but that for a long time before that perhaps I had imagined or desired such a situation. But it was easy to do deny because it wasn't there. But now that it's here I can't forget it. And it's just every time that we're in any kind of mixed company or anything I just start getting real uneasy and like everything I'm saying or doing is being misinterpreted and for no reason. Because nothing you know ...
COUNSELOR: By him you mean?
PATIENT: But I feel it. I - he probably isn't thinking anything of the kind. 
COUNSELOR: But you're saying because you feel guilty? All of the sudden it feels like he's hearing you in a way that isn't right?
PATIENT: And like things are starting - they're starting to come back at me. And I can't handle it. I can't relax and just have a good time because I keep imagining things that I know really aren't happening. But it's still there and I can't seem to get away from it. [18:36]
COUNSELOR: Can you give me more of an idea of what you mean?
PATIENT: Well like if any movement or action on my part like if you were to touch someone or to like engage in a conversation that would be a little bit more serious and preoccupied with someone for any length of time like as being misinterpreted. And ...
COUNSELOR: So like there you are and you might end up in bed with this guy? And you think maybe he - John knows that that's what's happening?
PATIENT: Because see there's just that I just had this thing that I can't. I don't know what it is. It's just a strange feeling like it's just a constant desire for - I don't know if it's just the tension or if it's like purely a physical desire that I have. But I can't ... I can't be natural around people or around men without feeling that I'm giving myself away. 
COUNSELOR: Giving yourself away by being seductive?
PATIENT: And
COUNSELOR: So that you have this desire all the time? And it's just you sort of keep it bottled up most of the time other and are really cheerful.
PATIENT: Because it's - it's like it doesn't. It's like its two worlds apart. It's like it doesn't have anything to do with even me. It's like I'm a different person when I'm this way. And see I have like I know that I really love John. And that I can't really see myself without him. And yet when I'm in this situation it's like he doesn't even exist and I don't exist either. And it comes back and it like haunts me. But it's like weighing in the path and I can't even put things together like faces or words or conversations or actions or anything. But it's just there. And I keep feeling that I'm going to be to the point where I - I'll break. And I just will go all the way off and not even realize that it's happening. 
COUNSELOR: Really in a brink?
PATIENT: Because it's like it's so obscure to me. I can't put my finger on it. And
COUNSELOR: What is it sort of scary or something because you can't figure out what it is?
PATIENT: Yeah it scares me because I start thinking of all kinds of weird things like there's something always wrong with me. And that maybe I wish that I was like a prostitute or something so that I wouldn't have any commitment to any one person. [22:16]
COUNSELOR: And then you like if you really were free like that and you could just make it with anybody and you wouldn't have to worry you'd be tied all of the time thinking you were going to expose anybody.
PATIENT: But see I don't - I don't want that really totally. I mean like if I were in that situation I probably wouldn't be like that at all because there would still be that part of me that would be holding back. And so it's not - I really can't like look at John like something that I want to break free from because I don't. And yet it's like you want - it's funny sometimes like you want your cake and eat it too. Like you think well ... why can't you have both or something? I don't know it's ... I can't explain it. It's just ... it's just a feeling that I have. And it's there so often.
COUNSELOR: So like on one hand you really want John because that's faith and warmth and you care about each other. But on the other hand you'd really like to be free and loose and acting on this desire you have.
PATIENT: That's exactly the way it is I think. Because I really do crave companionship and closeness and like I can't stand to be alone. And I can't stand to be alone at night. And I can't even imagine myself like living alone in an apartment or something where I wouldn't have that security of knowing that someone's there. 
COUNSELOR: You feel protected by John? [24:25]
PATIENT: And yet I didn't have this feeling like when I was at home. I didn't enjoy being in the house alone. But I didn't feel like protected by my mother and father because they were there. And I have - the feeling that I have with John is definitely different. It's not like he's just someone that's there and I know that is there. And I know why I'm afraid. But ... I think to be free is because I never felt free in my whole life. And I never allowed myself to do what I wanted to do. And when I did I always seem to have such problems coping with it. And then I would take like months to recover from it. And then I would like get so wound up inside that when the opportunity happened again then I would become involved all over again. And but it was like a pattern. It just went the same way all of the time. And oh course then I really didn't have anybody to answer to. And it was just something that would happen in my mind. 
COUNSELOR: That every time you got free something terrible happened and then you got tied again? [26:25]
PATIENT: Like there was never a - there was never a relationship that I actually felt comfortable with other than my relationship with John. And then I - I suppose even at the end I got the guilt feelings about that and perhaps - oh well I'm sure that that's why I pushed the marriage so strongly. It came out in a different sort of frustration or feeling than the other episodes. But I've .... I can't say that I - I even think like realistically about that now. Even think the fear of ... of getting pregnant is so strong that I sometimes I wonder if that's why I'm the way that I am. Because I can remember whenever I would have a relationship with another fellow that would be - that would maybe go a little bit too far but not all the way. Then like the next time that I would be due to have a period I would be like two or three weeks late. Because I had really convinced myself that I was pregnant when deep down inside I knew that it was impossible. And I'm that way now.
Whenever we have intercourse I get very upset that I'm going to be pregnant. Even when I was taking birth control pills I was positive that something would go wrong. And I just - I really just have a thing about getting pregnant. I'm just really afraid of it. And I don't really know if I want to get pregnant. And it's really very frightening to me. It frightens me because I know that like John would like to have children and the point will come where I'll be faced with making a decision. And I don't know if I can do it honestly. Like I'm so easily swayed that like just so that my feelings won't come out. I'll like allow myself to become pregnant. Then I'll have to live with that too.
COUNSELOR: You won't have any choice? Your feeling that you think that you can't make up your mind ahead of time you let it happen and then it's out of your hands? [29:47]
PATIENT: No but I think it's because I can't be honest. I couldn't say I really don't want to have children and I don't know why. Rather it's because I'm afraid or because I just feel that I don't want to be a mother. I couldn't bring myself to say that because I would be afraid that he would say well I'm sorry but this is the way it is and if you don't like it. So like to protect myself from like being pushed away or left I would go along with it. And 
COUNSELOR: It's like no matter how hard -scary it is to be pregnant. It's even scarier to be left alone. 
PATIENT: Because I - I realize it's something that we joke about and everything now. And when we like are talking about it in a very relaxed sort of casual manner I try to slip in these like comments. And maybe he has picked some up. And maybe this is you know I'm just another of the like stokes in the wheel. But I feel that unless I would actually sit down and say look and go into the whole thing in detail that the point will come where I will have to decide. [31:20]
COUNSELOR: What is it about that that you're so afraid of?
PATIENT: A lot of things. I do - I don't even think about it. I just don't even like when you talk to somebody and they say that they all these things of having their own children. It's always been like a desire. I've never ever had that in my life. I would say like in passing oh I would like four children.
COUNSELOR: But you're saying you're kind of different from everybody ... or something.
PATIENT: Well I think of it as being different because I know that like it's expected of you and that if you don't have children then you're like selfish. And you don't want to give up yourself. It's like you want everything to be for you. And maybe that's the way I am. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Is it like people would look down on you for thinking you don't want to have children?
PATIENT: But I mean I think that only bothers me because of the way that I think that I know how I feel inside. Like I really don't know if I want to share my life with a child. And I - it's like I don't have any fear of giving birth or anything like that. It has nothing to do with medical reasons. It's just that I can not honestly picture myself as being any other way than I am right now. Or have been in the past. 
COUNSELOR: That would be a whole different world if you had a child with you. 
PATIENT: And maybe it would be like - it would be just too much of being tied down. It took me awhile for me to become a wife. To accept that position because I wasn't - because I couldn't accept that like it was permanent. And it would only like change if you got a divorce. And even then it's like you're still different. And I had the same feelings about the child except that I don't feel that I would have the right to jeopardize someone else's life because of my feelings. [34:19]
COUNSELOR: You think somehow you would mess the child up? You just wouldn't be a good mother. As long as you feel that way that (inaudible at 34:29) pregnant.
PATIENT: And yet I feel that I have very strong feelings about adoption. And I don't know if it's because I feel that it's - that it wouldn't be my own. And ... I don't I mean it's just I don't think - I don't feel that if like if I adopted a child I don't think I'd feel that way. Because then if I didn't want it I could push it away. But I have stronger feelings about adopting a child than having one. And I can't figure that out. Because it's like when I see children not infants but like two or three year old children that are alone or something like that I have strong desire to want to like do something for them. But I can't picture the thing like if it were my own and wanting to do the same thing. And so as long as I feel this way I don't feel that I should have children. And it's getting harder to cope with because people are starting to ask questions. Which I don't really feel that I would gage my decision on that but it makes me just want - that much more aware of what I'm faced with.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What is that? I mean can you get more into it? Like too much responsibility? That would be something I would think with you know you. [36:32] 
PATIENT: Yeah I think it is that. It's a responsibility that I don't know if I'm ready to accept. A responsibility of just being a responsible person. Which I don't really see myself as totally being a responsible person because I become so ... lack (inaudible at 36:58) about things. I don't really (place an actual point inside too many things) (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Well it's something like you wouldn't be able to committed enough.
PATIENT: Like I don't - I just like can't picture myself getting open and (that whole thing) (ph). And just sort of let's like devoting my own self to something else because I've never done it and I don't know if I ever could. 
COUNSELOR: It's like there's this big gap in there.
PATIENT: Like even as a wife I don't feel that I - a total commitment. There's a maybe like 50 percent commitment. But fortunately it hasn't caused any problems. Because I don't have a husband who's that demanding on me. And I don't know. Maybe if I had someone that would push me into being more responsible I would be. 
COUNSELOR: Had someone (inaudible at 38:12). But what I'm hearing is like since you've never had a close relationship with John I think that where you felt that you'd be really giving yourself to him and you really cared about him then it's sort of inconceivable that you could have that for a child. [38:29]
PATIENT: Yes and no because I mean there have been times when I have felt very ... where I have like really, totally committed myself to John. Like in times of trouble or something like that. And it will come out. So I know it's there somewhere. But like for the - well in the beginning it was more - better than it is now. I mean it's sort of like falling off. And I can see it because of my attitude towards things. Not funny things but like meals and stuff like that. If I don't have the urge to do something I don't do it. And I guess it's fine like if you're single and you don't really have to worry about anybody but yourself. But ... I just get like sometimes when I get up in the morning I don't care if I do anything. I just ... lay around all day. I'll watch TV or I'll read or I'll do something.
COUNSELOR: It's like that that (inaudible at 40:00) Yeah it makes it hard to conceive of taking care of a baby.
PATIENT: Like I wonder (laughs) if I like I can't imagine doing that if you had a child. There's just no way unless you ship it off to someone for a couple of days. [40:24]
COUNSELOR: So the way you are now you'd just never be able to do that is what you're saying. Some things have sort of gone down hill and you're just not in shape to (inaudible at 40:34)
PATIENT: I look at it sometimes I wonder if it's not just because the - of the situation that I'm in right now. And perhaps if I felt more secure with my relationship with John that would make me feel more secure as a person. And that I would get up and do things. And now keep falling back into this really lazy kind of bored life which I'm not happy with at all. I'm very unhappy. But I just really can't seem to do anything about it. 
COUNSELOR: Like it's really hard to pull yourself out.
PATIENT: And once I get going I'm fine. Like if I can really push myself into like getting dressed and getting around the house and doing something than I'm alright. But if I don't get that push in the morning then I'm just there all day. And then like at 4 o'clock I just panic because I realized that I let a whole day go by. And then I try to go into 45 different directions and I get real hostile and defensive and angry. And it's like all on myself but I take it out on anything that's around - which is usually John. And I certainly couldn't do that to a child. It wouldn't be fair. [42:37]
And then I worry about like having something wrong with the child. I don't know if I could cope with that. And I think like I would be strong enough to accept it but I don't know if I would be strong enough to deal with it. And I kind of just let things work on mind like that. And they just really - I can't seem to have something hit me or happen to me and then like forget about it. I just sort of like to dwell on it. And I think maybe like it's because (laughs) maybe I enjoy tormenting myself or something. I don't know. But it just it keeps hammering away at me. 
And I start thinking of all sorts of weird things. Like if something will pass through my mind ... like what would happen ... if John would be killed or something. I mean I just - I don't think about it and then just forget it. I like for the next eight hours I just sit there and think of all of these things and what I would do and how I would react and I don't know. It's like I'm always dreaming about people dying. And it's really terrible. I'm just like so hung up with death and really like sad and ugly things in life. And I can't enjoy just like living and the things that I consider normal that would be fun to enjoy. 
Like I can't get excited about music and (laughs) pretty things. Everything's like black. [45:04] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like this is a really - like you're really down right now. (You want to be back up again) (ph).
PATIENT: And I can't I don't know it's ... I think another thing that bugs me about children is that like I'm so - I'm really like afraid of them. I can't communicate with them at all. And if that's the cause I don't know if it's just something that's temporary or something that would change once I have my own. But that's like sort of funny with us because every time we're around children I sort of like just blink off into the background. And if they come up and like pick out of the group and start talking to me I just I don't know how to talk to them. 
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about that? I mean does it seem sort of alright to you or?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: (Actually you would to change) (ph)?
PATIENT: It makes me feel very uncomfortable because I feel like I'm allowing like a six year old to completely over power me and in every way. You know intelligence and everything. And I've tried to change it like I'll really get out there and try hard to talk to them and make something. Like they're relaxed around me but can't really do anything about it. I mean I've tried on several occasions to overcome this and I can't. I still have that very tense feeling. And there have been rare instances where it has happened to happen if I involved a child who I especially like or can like really feel close to. Then I can feel like warm towards that child. But ... most of the time it's because they like have something wrong with them. (laughs) [47:41]
COUNSELOR: Like the kids you wanted to adopt? Like so (there's lots of things that deprived you from like taking them in) (ph)?
PATIENT: Although a lot of it I think is for the fact that I was an only child. I can't really identify with small children because I never was around any that much.
COUNSELOR: So it's just like experience or practice you mean?
PATIENT: Because I ... I never played that well with other children my age when I was a certain age. I would always tend to go toward the older people or older children like. And I would like just only play my baby games and my doll games at home. But I never like shared those things with a child my own age. So that like when ... a child will come up to me and ask me about something like a song or story or something I can't relate with them because I don't remember any of that because I never shared it with anybody. I always like did that on my own. And then I would sort of like just forget about it because it wasn't a continuous thing. 
But ... I think that's one reason why I have such an insecure feeling now about being alone. Even if I'm with other people I don't know or feel that there's someone in the room that's like directly related with me like with me. Then that doesn't make any difference. You know if there's ten people there or no people. [50:26]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: and I ... I'm really like getting worse and worse about that because I don't care to go anywhere alone or do anything alone. And I find that when I do I'm very uncomfortable and like I sort of like talk to myself. (laughs) because I can't just blend in with the crowd or anything like that. 
COUNSELOR: I didn't get that. What?
PATIENT: Well like you know if I go somewhere like shopping or something I can't - I don't become that preoccupied with what I'm doing to forget the fact that I'm like walking by myself and driving by myself. And ... I like to have somebody there with me. It was like just even coming up here alone that really bothered me because it was the whole area was like strange to me. And I would become very uncomfortable and tense. And so I was like afraid that I couldn't like relax and do what I was suppose to do once the time came for me to do it because I would become so tensed up.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It sounds like home is a place that's really sheltered and safe ... like a shell or something. And then there's the world which is not dangerous but you know just hard to hang on to or.
PATIENT: I can't ... I don't become that relaxed around other people - like I've really gotten this thinking about making friends with other women. I become very aware of that because of what John said when I first came here. I don't know if I told you that. You know about when I found out that my therapist was going to be a woman I became very angry. And I really like said well I'm just going to call and tell them that I want someone else. And he said it might be a good idea for you to at least try it because you find it so difficult to identify with other women. [53:36]
COUNSELOR: Yeah and to come here.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I had found that that's very true. And so I have really been making this effort to like not so much like to seek people out but the people who I know to try to enlarge our relationship. And I think that I'm finding out why it's so difficult for me to be around other women because I don't see them as a protective force. Sort of like they're there and I can talk to them but it's like I always keep up this false front. And that I never really relax and enjoy myself. I just babble on about things that really don't mean anything to me. But just so that I can ... keep a conversation going. 
COUNSELOR: And your false front is?
PATIENT: Like I get the way that I wish that I was. Like a steady kind of a sensible type of person. 
COUNSELOR: And underneath you're really upset and insecure and?
PATIENT: And then I sort of like not that I go along and gossip about what other people do which I don't ever do because I always have that feeling - that underlying feeling of guilt all of the time. You know that it could be me that everyone's talking about. But that like in a (situation we're all) (ph) an upstanding person. That I have an extremely happy life. That everything's just so fine and dandy. And.
COUNSELOR: It's hard to keep that up. [56:06]
PATIENT: But evidently I must do a pretty good job of it because (laughs) everybody sort of thinks that way. And I think that's what bothers me more than anything because I know it's not true. And I - I sort of have to laugh when somebody will say something to me about boy you're just so happy. You have such an ideal situation and it's funny because I know it's not true. 
COUNSELOR: Kind of bitter sweet. 
PATIENT: but ... I just can't - that's why I was so surprised at what I did last Tuesday night. Because I never would ever think of doing anything like that in front of a stranger. And yet it was like I couldn't stop myself. And I'm sure that they were ... laughing that ran through her mind when we left. Because of all of the things that just came out. And I have never - I've never called her since. And I usually talk to her a couple of times.
COUNSELOR: It's like if she knows then (she's) (ph) not okay with (you) (ph) anymore?
PATIENT: No. I put (my - like) (ph) I feel like I have to apologize for the way I acted. You know like and if I apologize it'll all go away. Then she won't think that there's anything bad or that John and I really aren't just as happy as we appear to be outwardly. And so therefore I just I haven't called her because I feel very uncomfortable. And yet I feel like I could call her and talk about other things and not even bring it up. Which she and I probably will do because it's - it would just be embarrassing to her ... to say anything more about it. But it's I don't know. [58:56]
I keep thinking that like ... every week when I leave here that something's going to change. And it doesn't change which I don't know why. I think perhaps like I am lying to you on what's going to happen. And I just can't (inaudible at 59:31) sometimes I think of like when it's all over then everything will be fine. And I'll know where I'm at and what's going to happen. But underneath I think that it's not true. And it's like I'm just doing it because I think that it is going to solve something. I don't know. I can't explain it but I ... I feel in some ways I feel more relaxed because I'm getting a lot of things out of me. But in other ways I'm becoming contempt and becoming more defensive. 
COUNSELOR: On the one hand it seems like therapy ought to be kind of magical. All of the sudden you find the answers and it'll be okay. On the other hand you can see that it's getting harder ... to be able to (inaudible at 60:39)
PATIENT: Or that like the more things that I'm bringing up about myself is making me more tensed up and more aware of what my problems are and like I'm having more and more trouble coping with them. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like when you know what they are it gets harder. Otherwise you can kind of shuffle around like. 
PATIENT: Especially since I never did give that much thought about any one thing about myself.
COUNSELOR: It's quite a change. [61:32]
PATIENT: Other than what was (what am I to think about) (ph). And ...I'm feeling very nervous and I ... I'm like constantly wanting to get out and do other things so that I don't have to think about it especially like in the evenings. You know not so much during the day. But ... it's sort of like I don't (want to go to) (ph) bed at night. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And it's time. Okay?
END TRANSCRIPT
