TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 0324 - 006 interview number 15. 
PATIENT: Coming upstairs, I just really had this feeling that, I don't know, like it was going to be the kind of session where we're having (inaudible at 1:11). 
COUNSELOR: Oh, you felt like you were walking into a (inaudible at 1:16) or something. 
PATIENT: Well, I just didn't feel like I was bringing anything to it. I'm not sure why because as of, like, last night I was so looking forward to coming here. And actually earlier in the week I was. I guess partly because I really don't feel like I've gotten anywhere as far as working or not sleeping on days that I have off and have sort of set aside to work and catch up on things and stuff like that. (2:00)
And it just seems, like, as many times or for every time that I get up, you know, or really feel good for just a little while then I just go down so far. And sometimes I'm really not sure why. It's like something, which irritates me and I really can't explain it, but I just sort of feel like completely giving up and going to sleep. 
COUNSELOR: Are you not doing anything? Are you saying that I understand that feels like an old pattern recurring and that that's probably depressing, but I'm wondering like if you also feel that this means in some way you're on your way downhill into something bad again kind of. If there's any portent or omen or quality about feeling this way.
PATIENT: Well, not so much that I'm on my way downhill, but that maybe I will never get on my way uphill. And that in a sense all of these little up times, which thank goodness still keep occurring when I can get something done and I can cram and study for tests and I can turn in an application, which I actually did two of this week in the same day or something like that. I felt great after I finished that. (3:59)
The next day I felt absolutely miserable, but that kind of thing, like, enables me to keep going because then I can keep somehow having tests or getting jobs or something like that, but it's kind of in between times I'm not even really living. And I'll, you know, I keep stopping and turning around and realizing my God, it's February already and I haven't even done anything. 
And it seems, in a sense, it seems to be happening more and more that way. Like, I just feel like I could just really stay here forever and keep working at, you know, some kinds of jobs that I'm sure I could get that would be minimally satisfying.
COUNSELOR: In context that would sort of be the way you describe your lifestyle to stay here. It would be just sort of maintenance function and minimally satisfying.
PATIENT: Right, and there's absolutely no changes and no reservation of anything that I consider minimally and that's really frustrating.
COUNSELOR: The feeling I get is, like, if you're traveling to the west coast and something happens to the battery in your car and you have to stop every 300 miles to get your battery charged and the charge never holds, you know. And it sounds like these up periods are somewhat the same way. Like, they never take hold enough to prevent you from sort of sinking down again. (5:59)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you look...
PATIENT: But it's like whenever that battery goes down I don't just stop and have to wait there and get it recharged. It's like I have to go back 500 miles and get it recharged because in the time that I'm down I end up getting so far behind on something else that I should be doing, but it's not just that I haven't done what I should do, but that I haven't gotten ahead any. And it's gotten really that I've probably got more obligations or something like that.
COUNSELOR: It's like running out of steam, just really mixing car metaphors up, but running out of steam, like, sets you back rather than just having you lose whatever.
PATIENT: Anyway, part of the way I feel right now, I guess, I just got two Valentine cards from my family. One from my father and stepmother and one from my little brother whom I haven't heard from or communicated with since Christmas time. I just sort of walked out and partly I just, I don't know what to do. In a simpler phrase it's safer just to stay away from them and to not have any contact with them.
COUNSELOR: Why is that? I'm not sure I know. It sounds like there's, I'm missing a fact or something.
PATIENT: I don't know what I told you about Christmas.
COUNSELOR: I don't remember hearing anything about that. Mostly your mother. (7:53)
PATIENT: Oh, because anyway it was just really terrible. I spent, I guess, about five or six days there over Christmas and my father and stepmother and nine year old brother and these two kids age seven and five, I guess that they were in the process of adopting. And I was really looking forward to this because I really wanted to see the kids and I really like my little brother and I just finished work. It was going to be a nice vacation kind of thing. And I didn't have any work to do over that time studying or anything. So, I could really play with the kids.
And anyway it was just a total disaster from the time I arrived as far as the kind of a prevailing attitude. There was so much tension that it was really the air was just thick with it. And my stepmother was just yelling at the kids all the time completely and I sort of felt that this was the second that I walked in because my boyfriend had driven with me, which I hadn't told them because I wasn't sure. And it almost felt like, you know, all of a sudden it's just an imposition to see if he could stay and that one night before I drove him to the airport the next day because he was going to fly home from there. 
And, but, you know, it wasn't said in those terms and I just I sort of felt it when I arrived and my boyfriend has an uncle and aunt right outside DC also and that he wanted to talk to. So, he called them and my parents were on their way out shopping and so they invited us over for dinner to their relief, but I had met them and I liked them. So, we went over there and just stayed and well it ended up being really foggy and cruddy and we didn't have any gas. So, they just invited us to stay the night, which I was really glad for. That gave me another day to avoid facing my parents. (10:02)
And then from the time the next day, you know, I guess, I went to sleep that afternoon and they have my stepmother gets really upset with me for sleeping during the day and staying up late at night. No matter, you know, what or whether for some degenerate reason or not somehow sleeping during the day is immoral or something. And yeah, I felt great when I got up and I got up and I started singing Christmas carols with the kids at the piano and I was teaching them carols because they didn't really know any. And, you know, to me this was really an important part of Christmas and my stepmother just comes in and grabs the little five year old boy's hand and says how many times have I told you to take your hands off the piano? Or something like that and it's like the whole time I was home...
COUNSELOR: It sets just a certain ugly tone to it all.
PATIENT: Well, it was, I did not say it like she did. It was something like can't you keep your hands off the piano for five minutes? And it was like dripping with sarcasm, which, you know, to me you don't use on a five year old kid. Well, you don't use it on anybody, but least of all a child. And there are many, many more occasions like that. And it was like keeping your house clean and stuff like that was what was most important. There was no time left for just enjoying the kids.
COUNSELOR: Sort of human being type function.
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, from the time I got home, they had moved, this, is my first time to see their new house and I don't remember anything but complaints about everything. There has not been a how thankful we are for having our nice new house and everything. It was, you know, kids are walking through our yard. I mean, they were really sick. My parents really were and I don't know why, but it was just really a pathological approach to everything. (12:04)
And I just tried to stay out of the way as much as I could because I really couldn't tolerate it, you know, just and since I've grown up with it for too long, but this was more drastic than they'd ever been, at least in my mind. And like Christmas day, like, they'd get mad at my dog for being locked in the room when we were opening presents. She wasn't doing anything at all except that they left the door open so she got out and went into the living room, which was a terrible thing. Though she doesn't get on furniture or anything like, but she might drop a dog hair someplace. 
So, my stepmother immediately threw her back down cellar where she spent most, the whole time that she was there and like Christmas morning was, like, well we can decorate this in five minutes and my stepmother sort of went around picking up paper and ribbons. There is no, in fact, you don't dare move because you'll do something wrong and then if you don't move you're doing something wrong because you should be moving and doing something and it was really a double bind kind of thing all the time.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like, at least, if I were a guest in that house, it would make me feel thoroughly unwelcome. I mean, sort of like a stray piece of dust that would have annoyed her like everything else.
PATIENT: I mean, this guy that I used to go with and used to visit a lot and actually got along quite well with my parents. I often think he felt that way that my stepmother would, he would, you know, be lying down on the couch and she'd come in and say get your greasy head off my couch or something like that, which is not what you say to a guest. It's, like, well just it's not what you'd say to anybody, but, you know, she would treat both of us like little kids that were just inherently bad. (13:59) 
And somehow, I don't know, I still get some, I guess it was Christmas night or something like that. I was still addressing Christmas cards and I was up until like 1:00 because I wanted to get them mailed and that's not very late for me at all and I just went back to bed Christmas morning not because I was sleepy, but because it was the only place I could escape. And so from that my stepmother concluded that I'd been up all night Christmas Eve, which I hadn't been. And so then when I went out and mailed the Christmas cards, put them in the mailbox and the dog across the way started barking, at least, really loud and because I'm sure that must have been what woke up my stepmother because it couldn't have been my dog because I was very quiet. 
And then it was this (inaudible at 14:59) and then I came in and my father definitely let the cat out. So, I opened the other door and closed it. Simply the process of doing that she comes storming down why can't you play the game? I know that you're right and the rest of the world is wrong, but just, just once why can't you play the game? I didn't know what she was talking about and it turns out then she started yelling at me for slamming doors and keeping her awake and just stuff like that. 
And oh, and then she had to bring up that this was the first time she'd really confronted me. She'd been yelling at the kids. I mean, she went into a tirade for 15 minutes and I just really couldn't take it. And, I mean, I was just about to go to bed then when she said that to me and it wasn't that late. And it wasn't like we had to get up at six the next morning. And I don't remember what else it was that about that bothered me. Then she said something about and I hadn't even told her that I wasn't going to eat breakfast with them that morning. (16:12)
That's when I had just taken off and gone to bed and she'd gone and cooked two eggs for me and eggs were 80 cents a dozen and just anyway and it was sort of that on top of, like, I was just really trying to cope with the tension, you know. I really couldn't take it, a couple of other things like that occurred and what happened that night was I ended up not being able to sleep until like four in the morning, which when I did sleep late the next morning. 
So, and, like, the guy that I had gone with had called and said that he wanted to come and visit me sometime Sunday. So this was Friday night. So, I guess, like that's the only reason I managed to stay until Sunday. And by Sunday afternoon it had gotten just so intolerable. Saturday my father was really drunk and my stepmother would say you know, why don't you cooperate and help in the kitchen and, you know, I told him that this friend of mine was coming and he said something about well he's no good anyway and I'm sitting there liar, how can you say that? Well he didn't say thank you for the last time he was here, which was at least a year ago and I have no idea whether he did or not. 
And so my friend came, I couldn't even talk to him. So, we just went for a walk in the woods and all I could talk about was the atmosphere at the house, which was really, really bad and it was, like, I didn't have a chance, all I kept thinking was I didn't really have a room to escape to. And the only place I could escape was down in the basement, which was the playroom. So, you know, the kids were down there by seven in the morning and that was, but that was where my dog relegated to even though I kept bringing him upstairs with me, but they didn't know when everyone else was asleep. (18:21) 
But so, I guess, I sort of arranged to go, I don't know, I must have told you this, maybe I didn't. Since I couldn't talk with this guy there and I really wanted to see him and I really wanted to get out of home and I still had another week that I really didn't have anything to do as far as getting back here. This was Sunday, the week before New Year's. And so, I sort of, I just asked this guy, you know, if I could go down to where he lived in South Carolina, which was like a five hour, a four or five hour drive. So, that's a long drive, which wouldn't have been bad. 
And he said yes and so I sort of got all ready to go and then told my parents that I was leaving and why. And, which was really, I was just such a wreck then I couldn't really explain my position very well. And I just sort of had a 45 minute tirade of where I just sort of kept talking and saying in irrational order a whole bunch of the things that had been going through my head the whole time. Mentally that they knew that I was really sorry and that I really felt like they were destroying the kids, which they were. And as well as each other that they weren't happy and I don't know what else I said, but just awhile I couldn't say anything. (20:05)
And so then they went on and went off to church and went off to visit some people Sunday night. I finished and my friend left the same time they did and I was just going to follow him in my car and kind of (inaudible at 20:23) came back and he'd sort of been thinking about it and decided it wouldn't be very good if I came because he had work to do and he had a girl that he was seeing and I would really get in the way of and which in a sense and partly he felt like I was using him, which I really wasn't because I just really wanted to see him. This was the only way I could think of seeing him. 
Except that now that I had sort of decided to leave and said what I'd said to my parents I couldn't stay. So, I felt pretty badly about this guy, but I just, at that point, I really was not going to just sort of become destroyed by it. I mean, I just sort of said okay. And I called these relatives that my boyfriend sees and the woman I really, really like and she really liked me and she said, you know, come visit us any time even if (inaudible at 21:40) isn't there. And so I called her and I told her can I come over and stay with you folks tonight and she says sure. And they're just really great people I ended up staying there for two days. 
COUNSELOR: Gee, what a boon to have somebody. It sounds like you're sort of really intolerable after all that stuff. (21:59)
PATIENT: I mean, it was just the most marvelous thing to be there and I called this friend of mine in Pittsburgh. A girlfriend that I really wanted to see on the way home anyway and asked her if I could stop by there, which I was probably could only stay two days there. And anyway I just sort of ended up leaving my father this note saying I've decided not to go to South Carolina, will be leaving for Pittsburgh tomorrow, not telling him where I was staying that night. I'll be in New York. That was all. 
And left him money for long distance phone calls and for two eggs and I just didn't want to talk to them anymore. And I know, I mean, part like I really haven't gotten over that. It's just because, like I know, because, like, last Tuesday, like, I felt driven away and I was having these horrible, horrible dreams that put me in such a bad mood that I couldn't do a darn thing, really not calm. And kind of what it was, was, like, was really stupid. That it's, like, we were in this housing project and my dog and I were trying to get away from my stepmother who was, like, chasing us. And we really couldn't get out of this project. Like, I don't know, it was this place that we have to go to, but we were sort of hiding behind houses or something like that to not be found. And I just felt such a strong hatred for her, which I had never felt quite so strongly in my life and fear of her at the same time. (24:04)
COUNSELOR: Do you know what was in that fear? That hate follows pretty easily. I mean, you know, hate follows gleaned from what you said, but the fear doesn't so much you know what it was? 
PATIENT: No, I don't. I really don't except that partly it's a fear of being further condemned by her. I mean, she condemns me for everything I am and everything I do.
COUNSELOR: To your father? Is this, like, one thing she does sort of divide you or attempt to divide you from your father?
PATIENT: Partially, in a way. And, you know, I would get if, I guess, I really resent her making it impossible for me to see my little brother and my father. I mean a lot of the things she's doing to my little brother. I resent a lot of the things she did to me when I was growing up. And, I guess, the fear has been there since I was a kid. Somehow I was always going to be caught for doing something wrong or for not doing something right. Usually it was the latter.
COUNSELOR: Now the way you describe her being there just has this quality of being constantly pursued in addition to simply not being able to get anywhere by yourself. Like, she was always after you or she was after her kid, which in some way seems, you know, like it does affect you when you see a mother beating on her kids in some way. (26:03)
PATIENT: It really is just, like, my first two days there I had no reason to think she was angry at me for anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I kind of wondered like it sounded like.
PATIENT: I hadn't done anything. Except she really obviously went around sweeping up dog hairs about every 10 minutes or something like that. And what the feeling that she gives off is you are placing a burden on her. I am, you know, a fantastic martyr kind of thing and she goes I have a way to do things she doesn't need to do and then we're supposed to feel very penitent causing her to do these things. But I mean it really tore me apart to see the way she was treating these kids. I mean, these kids were scared of her. I mean, I've gone down the basement one time and my little brother and the two new kids don't get along at all and which is understandable because my little brother has learned to criticize everything and everybody. I mean, criticism is the mode of existence, how you survive. 
COUNSELOR: How you survive in that household right?
PATIENT: And so naturally the kids' behavior isn't obsessive compulsive enough for my stepmother. The little girl happens to be not very bright in school, which is kind of interesting. The little girl is very feminine and likes clothes and everything else, but at the same time isn't very bright, which is just the opposite of what I was, but I didn't measure up either. She never complimented me for getting good grades. She yelled at me because I didn't take home economics. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, two and two and two and one couldn't possibly please. You have a feeling that if they go to heaven they're going to be mad because Christ has a wrinkle in his robe or something like that. (27:52)
PATIENT: When you really get to it it is like that, but anyway there was one time that three of them got into a fight or something and Johnny was going off to tell my stepmother and the kids were just down there cringing. What's Mommy going to do to us? And, you know, the two of them just sticking together. They've lived in four foster homes or something and they haven't had too great a childhood and it turns out fantastically well balanced loving kids as a result. 
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess the kind of thing that's horrible enough in itself, but it struck me like that probably in addition to just being horrified in general principle is probably maybe awakened some of the kind of feelings that you have being under that woman's control or whatever in some ways. Like it touched you even more deeply than just seeing another person's suffering.
PATIENT: Partly, I mean, it touched me fantastically deeply and, I mean, I don't know why I reacted as strongly as I did, but it's so completely stifled. And, I mean, I was in pretty damn good psychological shape when I got there except that I realized as I got closer and closer just driving there that I was scared and I didn't know why. And, you know, jokingly tell my boyfriend well let's just drive all the way to South Carolina where you live because I don't want to go home. And I proved to be pretty darn right. 
COUNSELOR: Should have obeyed your instinct kind of. (29:39)
PATIENT: That's really true. And I noticed I shouldn't have stayed as long as I did. I mean, in a sense that time was also just because I had to leave and it sort of has increased my feeling of real separation now, isolation since I've been back here and it has increased the pressure on me to hang onto my boyfriend that I have now. Like this friend that I had in South Carolina who was my first real boyfriend and I sort of maintained really close ties with ever since, but this was sort of a real total break that I've had with him and it was at the same time that I just, you know, left my parents in the worst way I've ever left them and without even leaving any open communications and not being in a position to initiate them. 
And one thing this friend of mine said to me while he was there in the midst of this, this friend from South Carolina, in the midst of this turmoil kind of after I talked to my parents and told them that I was leaving. And I came away from there sort of crying and very upset and the thing is I hadn't said anything, you know, I hadn't just sat down and yelled at them. I just in the most objective way I could have told them what was going on. But at the same time after that I just, you know, I had to get out of there and so my friend said boy, you're really good at bringing roofs down over your head aren't you? Which I sort of resented because following that I just cut things off from him. 
COUNSELOR: You mean it felt like he was saying boy, you know, you really asked for these catastrophic things? (31:49)
PATIENT: Yeah, in other words maybe I shouldn't have gotten so upset. Whereas it wasn't the most pleasant thing I should do. And like he was trying to say, you know, can't you just stay here tonight and leave tomorrow for college, see your girlfriend. And I've forgotten, it wasn't until like I just got the mail just before I came here and I was really, I didn't want to open it. It was just two Valentine's. It didn't say anything, you know, except love, Daddy and Janice and love, Johnny, but...
COUNSELOR: I guess the thing that struck me is that it must make you feel as though you have no where to go. I mean, okay you have two physical places you could go, I suppose. You can or that you can go that are nominally home, but it's like psychologically it feels like, to me, that there's like nowhere for you to go. You can't go to your mother, can't go there and this guy cut you off too and I don't know how much you want to use him or something, but it's like sometimes it just helps to know there's some place you could go if you had to.
PATIENT: That's true. 
COUNSELOR: Like it just...(33:30)
PATIENT: In a sense, one thing I was really trying to deal with this week and last weekend and last week was, you know, just the incredible need that I had for somebody that I could, I guess, as I described to my boyfriend as a sort of temporary permanent relationship. Not that I wanted to get married or settle down or anything else, but that, you know, just for now, just for kind of a base of operations that I really needed that. And except that my boyfriend couldn't give it to me. And my need really scares him and it really becomes a burden on him.
COUNSELOR: Is that need and the burden on him different from his feelings about that whole complex of feelings about him being scared to hear what's bothering you because it makes him feel responsible because you might go hurt yourself or something? Is it, well let's say maybe connected a little bit?
PATIENT: It's beyond that. I mean, a lot of it is that he just, you know, he cares about me, but he doesn't care about me as much or need me as much as I need him and care about him. But at the same time, he feels like if he just sort of drops me that I'll just get, not that I'll do anything drastic or anything like that anymore I think, but just that I would be so terribly hurt and that he'll feel really guilty about hurting me like that. And, I mean, I really would like to not have that need. But I really don't know what to do about it. (36:14)
And sort of last night we just had some kind of a talk, which like he'd come over for dinner, which was a big dinner that my roommate was having. And I hadn't asked him. He just called and said when was I eating? I said well we're sort of in the middle of a big dinner if you want to come over, come on. And he did and there were about six other people there and it lasted until about midnight and he and another guy were talking and really having a good time. 
I wasn't interacting that much. I sort of was, but I certainly wasn't interacting with him. I was just interacting with the group. I had another girlfriend there and then I sort of, you know, he said do you want to stay and I said well yes if you want to, but I'm not going to force you. And so we were just sort of lying in bed talking about how we were feeling. I just wanted to know how he was feeling that he was really upset and I really wasn't sure why, but it was something about feeling like he had to stay or being fenced in by me and it, you know, here he'd gone and spent all evening at dinner with me and then I had to go and make him stay here that night. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that's not, at least from how you said it that it surely wasn't how you sense that that happened. (37:53)
PATIENT: And, you know, but I'm sure that's how he senses that that happened. Like he had somehow been in my house and that time it kept him from his studies and that kind of thing. And so, you know, he fulfilled his obligation and what was I doing making him stay there that night. I said, but I really didn't get much chance to talk to you at dinner and in fact I didn't even really feel like I was there with you at all. 
And I don't know, I sort of, I got to the point that this has just happened so many times that he has these feelings that, you know, and last night I just, I don't know why I felt pretty good partly because this girlfriend in my class had come over and was sort of there when I got home from work and she stayed for dinner. I was low when I got home from work. I wasn't even going to go to my roommate's dinner. I was just going to go to bed and, but then I ended up feeling really good. And it was just kind of a feeling that hell I was strong enough now and I didn't need this guy. And, you know, that it was maybe the worst thing I was doing was to try to hold onto him when all it was was a burden to him, which then ended up making me feel really lousy. 
COUNSELOR: And like you can't ask for a damn thing. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I mean, what's striking me and this, is, like, something out of my own experience that I've just, like, thought about and had, I don't know, had the work on from time to time is, like, what happens in these situations, at least to me, is that I get, I began to interpret and still do in some ways any feelings of being wanting to be dependent on my part as having that effect. It's like if I wanted to be dependent at all the other person had no experience at. It's like terrible clutching or fencing in or something and then that, I mean, that just I don't want to do that and then I sort of lean over backwards not to do it at all, which then doesn't have good results either, but it's like it's very hard to start making that distinction again particularly if it sounds like in a case like this where it sounds like you get messages all the time that you're too much, you're too much you're asking too much, you're clutching at me, I feel like you're putting me in a corral. (40:38)
PATIENT: I mean, with most people I really did have the feeling of, you know, be careful and don't impose yourself on them and I don't. And it's because I can get along without most people. And it's just because I do have, like, this, is the only person that I am really close to that really knows me and is going through a hell of a lot with me. And, you know, I've got, I just feel some times just for my own sanity and that just having him there or just kind of having him around and knowing that he's there I can go up and I can do things. And so I just keep fighting for it and I keep using him, which is what it amounts to and it keeps the way I wouldn't do that to anyone else. 
Like I get completely desperate if, in fact I did this, I guess, Sunday night and Monday night when I'm absolutely climbing the wall as far as not being able to work, not be able to go to sleep. You know, I'll say can I come over and he'll say okay. This week he was better than last week. Last week I went over two nights. And he made me feel really rotten both times for going. This week he's tolerated me and didn't say anything. And, you know, it was pretty good. I could provide him with the service of inviting him to campus or something like that so that it wasn't all, I wasn't in the way really, is what it amounted to. (42:20)
And, you know, it was really good for me psychologically and that just in the atmosphere of him being there I was able to work and I was able to get up in the morning, which I wouldn't have done if I'd stayed home by myself. But to the degree that this feeling just keeps coming back at him and he really feels really strong. I just, in a sense, sort of decided last night that I just, you know, I just really had to stop seeing him or I had to stop. The thing that bothers me is in a sense for me to stop depending on him. You know, I don't think has to be a bad way. If in some way he would let me give him something, which he won't. But I pretty much just have to stop seeing him because if there's some kind of in between thing that just tears me apart too much.
COUNSELOR: It's like being half offered something or offered something that you don't want. I mean, I'm not saying it right, but it sounds, see the way I hear, the way you describe these things, pardon me for making such a judgment, but like it doesn't sound like what your feeling enough to be asking is unreasonable. I've heard you make that judgment on yourself a lot of times and it sounds like what you're saying is look, you know, it helps me to be able to sit in the same apartment with this guy and I don't think I'm asking anything of him in that sense and that's really important to you in a relationship right now and it's important because you have a history with him and he knows you and you two have been through a lot and I'm not sure you can function without that in some way or what sense is there to continuing the relationship if you don't have any. I don't know is that...(44:24)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But my judgment was that it didn't sound unreasonable to me. However, I can see like why it hurts so much to think of trying to have a relationship without him.
PATIENT: I mean, like the way, like, last week when we finally talked about it at the end of the week after like Sunday and Monday or Monday and Tuesday I had gone over to his house not this week, but the week before. And it had just, he had just made me feel so bad that I've just been really a mess all week. And when we finally sat down and talked about it like on Saturday night or Friday night or some time, you know, I told him that I just still felt really badly about it and he said well he didn't like, he sort of liked to have his own little private niche that he didn't want to have invaded kind of. 
And I don't know that he used that word. It sounded like it was something very similar to that. That I was just really encroaching on his territory and he really resented it. And at the same time didn't know how to tell me not to. He gave every signal to tell me not to, but he didn't come right out and say don't come and I was desperate enough to ignore all of the signals even when I felt them.
COUNSELOR: Oh, sort of like take what comes to you. (46:03)
PATIENT: Yeah, that was pretty much it. And it's like if I could stay it's somehow last night when he got through saying I felt almost kind of like a feeling like a struggling and it wasn't a depression. It was really funny because like he said to me, he said I just ended up starting writing. I just sort of lay there for a long time and I thought about a whole bunch of things. And I felt pretty strong and I felt sad at the same time, but I guess basically I felt pretty realistic and I just sort of started writing some of the things that I felt and the one thing I was in such a mood that I wasn't really down and I wasn't really up. And somehow if I could get to that point more often, which is hard to do. It's very rare that I'm not either way up or way down, but it's probably something that you can try for because I can never stay way up and maybe I should just I'd do much better to try for some kind of medium state.
COUNSELOR: Sort of neutral or not quite so extreme. 
PATIENT: Yeah, and or just sort of not ecstatically happy about great potentials of the future and the great things that are happening now, which inevitably end up or in pales and aren't worth a hell of a lot that's going on or just not thinking about a lot, but sort of just feeling okay about the way things are going. (48:11)
COUNSELOR: In a sense that would, although not a quote nice or positive, would have a more solid feel maybe to it. 
PATIENT: Well, how was the peace that I had last night, it didn't last a day. But it was really good. It was like I'd just, in fact, you know, my boyfriend would sort of reach over and sort of hold my hand as he was going top sleep and I didn't want it because I didn't feel like, I felt like well that's something that he feels like I need and I don't want to be that way. If it's something he wants fine. 
For once it was sort of a feeling it was sort of an accepting a feeling of being really alone in as far as being able to be really close to anyone at the moment all of my really best girlfriends having their own families now and not really having any boyfriends, which is probably because I'm in school because I have made really good friends. It's very hard to accept, but in a sense kind of recognizing and accepting it and it was truly a fantastically peaceful feeling that I wish I could get to last because it was a feeling that I could take off from there and I could keep pushing and pushing and it was...(49:57)
COUNSELOR: It has a foundation type feeling.
PATIENT: It was for once a not despairing feeling, back feeling sorry for myself kind of feeling. And sort of meditating a whole bunch of things that couldn't be changed and letting them just sort of rocket.
COUNSELOR: Now has a more positive feel to me than, just at first, I thought you were talking about sort of resignation, which has a gray and saggy feeling to me. But it sounds like it was a little more than that.
PATIENT: Well, I think the term I used was kind of a resigned acceptance, which is different from a resigned despair. And damn I wish I could stay with like I started out really feeling part of this whole thought pattern like before I even started writing. But kind of neat and just lying there in bed I just kind of really tiny candles that would reflect on the ceiling. Sort of like the people and in fact I really felt like I could write to this one girl that I've known since I was four and who I have not written to. 
I was her maid of honor on February 18th last year and I have not really seen her since except for one time she stopped off at O'Hare on her way to Mexico. And I sort of had this feeling, you know, for the last week, well it's her anniversary, I really should write to her. To wish her a happy birthday from last year and Merry Christmas and a whole bunch of other things, but I just have not written to her at all because I really felt so down and jealous of her and happy about her happiness, but unable to really experience it because I'm so messed up. (52:26)
And thinking of all those really brave times that'd I'd be really hot that I can feel like I can write to her, but that wouldn't work. And somehow last night I really felt like I could write her just on a normal human keel kind of thing. I don't know if I can. But it was really the first feeling that could about it being some kind of effort or some kind of a reinforced thing that I really wouldn't know what the next move was going to be. And part of that was I guess accepting, part of my resentment to her is the jealousy and part of it is a resentment that she as well as all of my other friends are no longer available to be really close friends to me. 
And well it's not a personal angle with them at all and, you know, like I really think the world of her and all my other friends it's just a very irrational feeling of somehow not being able to even speak to them just to run from. And it was like somehow if I could, it went along with it accepting the fact that as things stood right now things were not going to be good with my boyfriend anymore than they could be as I maybe would dream that they could be with my girlfriend. I suppose each of us being equally happy and contented and so forth. And I guess I basically realized I was dealing with the fact that I haven't stopped crying over spilled dreams. (54:44)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, this might be a little too harsh a word for it, but the feeling I got was it kind of didn't have that quality of being second class citizen to it. It was okay I've got to accept these hard facts, with some sort of, it felt to me like there was some sort of dignity in just being able to accept that not be sort of lying down while you were not taking it, but like accepting it or sort of playing the part, a part of you being able to say okay, it's pretty rotten, but this, is how it is and I might be able to, I thought you said something like, you could use that as a basically function for him or maintainable for you.
PATIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
