TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: So, hi.
PATIENT: Hi. I was on my way over, and as usual, I was wondering about what I would start off talking about since that's always such a loaded topic for us. And I haven't been able to shake my opening line. So I thought I'd just have to share it with you. And that would be, what shall we not talk about today?
COUNSELOR: What should we not talk about? (Laughs.)
PATIENT: It was another one of my jokes.
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure I get that one.
PATIENT: Oh, since every time I try and talk about something, I - in the past when I've tried to talk about how something  - 
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: - we haven't been able to talk about it.
COUNSELOR: What should we not talk about today?
PATIENT: Right. But now that I've said it, it's not funny. I guess it was more funny on the way over.
COUNSELOR: But perhaps you're feeling  - 
PATIENT: Oh, under the gun. A little pressure.
COUNSELOR: When you mentioned something, actually let's start - why - I wonder about that, why it's not funny now, saying it to me.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's a good point. Why isn't it funny. I guess it just seemed rude. And like - yeah, it seems like basically a poke at you instead of a discussion with you. So I guess it's at your expense, and I don't like it.
COUNSELOR: But when you thought about it before perhaps it was different? 
PATIENT: Yeah, it wasn't at your expense almost. So I can use it. 0:01:54.2
But it does register frustration still, I guess, sort of a lingering frustration. 
COUNSELOR: Lingering or is it  - 
PATIENT: Yeah, lingering.
COUNSELOR: Lingering to me makes it sound like it's kind of mostly gone, but there's still remnants of it still around. And I was wondering if that's true.
PATIENT: Yeah, no it's been - you know, it's been - should have been a linguist, Jim. (Laughs.) Yeah, that's right. That's a good point. It's more of a - can't - you know, it's kind of a chronic - I guess chronic frustration. So  - 
COUNSELOR: Well, what do you have today that you - this is, again, the same issue that you maybe have things in your life that you want to talk about.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, I was struck by your comment in our last session. Your closing comment was that our day to day - our little deal with the devil was that we would see how it goes session by session. And it - and then you pointed out that's how things were with Cynthia, and I hated it with Cynthia. 
But you were pointing - I think your point was see how the process works, you know. See how parallel the outside world is and the inside world. And my - I mean I thought about it on the way home, it was a very good observation. On the other hand, I also just thought about well, who does this indict, you know? I mean, this is sort of - I mean this is what I don't want this to mimic, my fucked up outer life. (Laughs.) I mean I really don't. 
COUNSELOR: So - 0:04:03.3
PATIENT: I would like things to happen here that are enriching in some way, you know.
COUNSELOR: But you and I discovered it at least one way in which this seems to parallel, as you put it, your outer life. What do you make of that?
PATIENT: I just said what I made of it.
COUNSELOR: I guess what I mean is, given that, you're saying on one hand you don't - you didn't want that to be that way. And yet here it is.
PATIENT: Well, I mean the obvious one is - I mean one thing is you're exactly right to some degree that there is no denying that things that happen between us happened. You know, I mean, that what I do with you in some way must mimic what's going on with other people in my life. And it's rather odd that it's Cynthia, but - (laughs) - whether it was last week or something like that. But so I guess I have to grant some validity to the idea that this can be a testing ground or a proving ground. I'll grant it freely. I'm not begrudging at all. Let the heavens realize the psychodynamic therapy or whatever the hell this is. (0:05:31.5).
COUNSELOR: But it does feel a little like kind of a token acknowledgement. Like I'll give you that one.
PATIENT: That's true. Yeah, well I guess the jury's still out. I can't give you all the praise that might be your due, but the jury is still out. 
COUNSELOR: You know, I guess I find myself wondering if it's really an issue of praise here  - 
PATIENT: Jesus, we have the same pants on today.
COUNSELOR: Do we - (laughs).
PATIENT: Christ, come on.
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.)
PATIENT: I'm sorry I interrupted you. You were saying  - 
COUNSELOR: Would that bother you if we had the same pants on?
PATIENT: Pretty close. Pretty close to my - (laughs) - uniform. Bobsie twins thing kind of, blue shirt on. Wouldn't it be a little freaky?
COUNSELOR: Well, I suppose it would.
PATIENT: Things out there, things in here.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's all good. I'm sorry, it just struck me - (laughs.)
COUNSELOR: It just struck you at an interesting time. I - you know. I agree with you. It would be freaky if we were wearing the same thing. But  - 
PATIENT: Why did I mention it? 0:06:52.2
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, I'm thinking maybe blue pants aren't so uncommon.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) That's a good - (laughs.)
So you're doing standup routines at night too?
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: You're doing standup routines at night?
COUNSELOR: I actually didn't intend that to be that funny. Maybe it was just the way I said it.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) It was so utterly tactful.
COUNSELOR: Well - or apparently not - (laughs.)
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Well, I guess it - I guess - (laughs) - I thought you didn't mean it to be funny. It seemed like it was pretty wry.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Pretty dry humor. 0:07:55.1
COUNSELOR: But it seemed to me to be an interesting place to point that out. And in fact, I find myself even forgetting what I was in the midst of saying when you said it.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) I'm sorry. No, I knew this would happen today. I knew as I was coming up here that I would start giggling again. And I was thinking I don't do this anywhere else ever, ever. This is the only place - I mean I remember like 15 years ago now, and I knew this would happen. Actually, I think when I did it last - I mean what I think obviously what I was doing was sort of doing my red herrings, I guess. You know. That That must have been why I commented on your pants.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Red herring like a distraction?
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Let's talk about something else.
COUNSELOR: Maybe we were talking about something that you wanted to distract us from. 0:09:05.4
PATIENT: Well, we were talking about - I didn't want to perceive what we were - I'm very frustrated with this topic of, you know, what do we talk about. You know, what - it just kind of seems like a well - such an overly traveled path. So I guess I was lashing out in frustration trying to - I mean I'm quite sure. 0:10:03.9
I don't know where to go right now. I feel like I just stabbed a conversation in the heart. I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: You're sorry?
PATIENT: Yeah. I was - I shouldn't have done that. I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: I'm actually a little confused. You think you just stabbed it in the heart just now or about the blue pants thing?
PATIENT: I think the blue pants sort of - I interrupted you - clearly interrupted you.
COUNSELOR: You did. You did, but you know what? I am wondering what was going on for you at that time. That's what I'm curious about.
PATIENT: You mean what went through my mind as I said it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:10:57.6
PATIENT: Just - I guess it just seemed freaky. I mean I - it just seemed freaky and kind of contrived, you know.
Have you ever seen the movie Harold and Maude?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: You like that film?
COUNSELOR: Yes, I do in fact.
PATIENT: Do you remember  - 
COUNSELOR: It was very dark, but very funny I guess.
PATIENT: Do you remember when Harold goes to the psychiatrist?
COUNSELOR: I should remember that, shouldn't I?
PATIENT: That's right.
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.) 
PATIENT: It probably had a deep influence on you. While you're remembering  - 
COUNSELOR: Perhaps that's why I don't remember it. Anyway, go ahead.
PATIENT: Well, you'll remember that he goes to the psychiatrist because he's dating Maude. And, you know, he's been in counsel with the priest. And the priest tells him, you know, most people want to sleep with their mother, but you seem to want to sleep with your grandmother. You know, ha, ha, ha. 0:12:03.1
But when he goes to the psychiatrist, he - (laughs) - he always dresses exactly the same way that the psychiatrist does to make fun of him, you know. Psychiatrist had a little turtleneck and dark slacks, and Harold sits exactly the same way as the psychiatrist. 
That's - it just seemed really odd that we would both be wearing our little preppy uniforms.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: So. Sorry, it just - (laughs.)
COUNSELOR: And it was also a joke - little bit of a joke.
PATIENT: Yeah. It wasn't the most offensive way to interrupt you.
COUNSELOR: No, no. Not only was it not offensive but joking is something we've noticed in here many times before - joking and laughing.
PATIENT: Oh, I see.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Right, no exactly. 0:13:00.3
COUNSELOR: And often when we're coming right up on something - or something's happening that maybe, as you said earlier today, you want to pull out that red herring and say look at this instead. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
I'm probably just not much of a patient today I guess. I'm really sort of - I mean I've just been feeling very strange for, you know, for some time. I mean, I feel like I'm sort of on autopilot now. Not - I'm hardly in touch with things. And so I'm just really finding sort of low in energy for dealing with - going head to head with issues.
And I find myself kind of in this fog and don't know what to do about it really. So I guess you're stuck with a spacey patient. I mean, I literally - I mean one thing that, ironically, happened. We didn't meet last week I don't think.
COUNSELOR: No, we didn't. 0:14:52.4
PATIENT: No, we didn't, it was two weeks ago. Ironically, last week, I - you know, I could have told you that this would happen. I mean basically, Cynthia's birthday happened, and we slept together twice. You know, not consecutive nights but roughly within four - Saturday before her birthday and then on her birthday. And then tension ensued.
COUNSELOR: So given that the birthday was coming up, you had pretty much anticipated this.
PATIENT: I was locked into trying to make her feel good. And what I - and I usually do a good job of this, which means that she misses me and this and that. And so before you know it, your paths are at your ankles, and, you know. 
Yeah, and I had anticipated. I mean, I knew this would happen. I just knew it. And then she left, went down to - and it was the same thing. Darling, I love you. Darling, I love you, blah, blah, blah, but this will never work. 
And it was just icky. I mean it was just more fence riding, you know. But it was intense fence riding. It was just like, you know. I mean, I refuse to acknowledge it would work because I knew damn well that it wouldn't. 0:16:09.7
And so, you know, I just sort of - after it was over, she got back from - the following week she went out of town, came back and just like on autopilot I, you know, saw her the next night. And said hey, you know, this is ridiculous. It's not going to work. She agreed. I left for July 4th weekend, and that was that.
And you know, it just sort of - you know, and I just - so on one hand, I thought as I was coming up here, well, either this means that I'm going to dump Jim too or the exact opposite will happen. I'll make a commitment or something like that. But in fact  - 
COUNSELOR: Interesting. 0:17:00.7
PATIENT: In fact what I think has happened is I'm just sort of too tired to talk. Because I find myself sort of  - 
COUNSELOR: - in a haze.
PATIENT: Yeah. And really, what I want is consolation or somebody to just  - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And nobody knows about it. Nobody, not a damned soul. Not one soul.
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm actually glad you brought it up, because there is something I was thinking of talking about from last time. And I've been thinking about the ongoing discussions we've been having about how much - we might call it how much you've been bringing in from the outside or how much you can talk about from the outside and so on. 
And I'm thinking that - my thinking on that has shifted slightly to thinking that it's probably okay for you to talk about that more. I'm not so sure that it's so inconsistent with the model of therapy that we're doing. And I'm in fact becoming more concerned that it's getting in the way. Not talking about it is getting in the way of things. 0:18:08.4
PATIENT: Well, we seem to have found a way to incorporate it by discussing things in relationship to what's happening between us.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: I mean, that seems how it's been reintroduced.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That is - and you know - and perhaps - and what will happen when you talk about it is I will still focus on - it will give you an opportunity - my point is to give you an opportunity to tell me what's going on out there. Okay? So I can here that.
I'm still going to focus on how we're both dealing with that. Right? When it comes in here.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Right? The difference is we'll be dealing with that instead of dealing with how we're not letting it in here, which is kind of what we've been - one way of saying what we've been struggling with up to this point, right. Have these big, long sessions that are about your not being able to talk about  - 
PATIENT: Right. 0:19:06.4
COUNSELOR: Right. 
PATIENT: Which in many ways mirrors things out there anyway, which is meaning forever not getting what I wanted from you know who. Well  - 
COUNSELOR: Anyway  - 
PATIENT: Things have changed. I mean, that's a shift. That's maybe not a huge shift, but it is a shift as far as I'm concerned.
COUNSELOR: Well, yeah. It'll be interesting to see how much of a shift it actually incurs, right. I'm wondering  - 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - how it'll be different. 
PATIENT: It makes my mind bend. Not that it's my responsibility to do this, but it does - I mean, you know. The structure is there. You do have to - it seems impossible for somebody to walk through the door without some sense of what's right, what's wrong, you know. 0:20:14.7
COUNSELOR: Do you mean what's right, what's wrong to talk about?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: What we're doing here?
PATIENT: Right. So - and I guess it seems sort of clean to just do it one way or gosh, can I tell you about my fourth birthday - (laughs) - which is like one way of getting at it. And the other one is very - (inaudible at 0:20:46.9) so.
Well, so I guess - I mean that sounds great. I don't - I guess what I'm saying is I'm a little baffled as to how to mix these apples and oranges here.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I am a little, too. But I think we're just going to  - 
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 0:21:07.7)
COUNSELOR: If that's okay with you. I'm actually  - 
PATIENT: Sounds like what I did with Cynthia. 
COUNSELOR: Does it?
PATIENT: A little bit actually.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I just - well, but if it works, it works. If it doesn't then it doesn't. Give it one last try.
I confess, I - you know, I really - what I really, really like is, you know, is (inaudible 0:21:48.9) or something. And that doesn't - I think it's odd that it just seems like this is such an emotionless - I mean it seems odd that I haven't cried in here or, you know - I mean, I've blown up at you once or twice, maybe. 
But it just seems like such - I mean I really - I think part of it is I am so relieved to be out of that relationship with Cynthia that I'm also not focusing on the fact that it is sort of sad. And this is like the third time that I've said this. I mean, go back to the tapes. I said this in January, you know, thank god. And then there were two months and then I was back into it. 
And then all through that I'm kind of fretting, and then I think we broke up again, and then we played the fence, well, we're breaking up again. And all this is so frigging disorienting. And I just - it's just like there's no sorting it out with anybody. I don't know anybody to sort it out with. 
And I'm - I look - I've given up on that happening in here, but it depresses me to come in here and have it not happen, because this is still the most logical place for that to happen. 0:23:20.5
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you a question, cut right to the chase. What's it like for you - what's your experience with telling me about this now?
PATIENT: It's frustrating, I guess. I'd rather just be talking about it. But  - 
COUNSELOR: I meant just now. You were kind of talking about it. You were kind of talking to me about  - 
PATIENT: It's okay. It's not the pure form of, you know, going over the highlights film of it, you know. It's not the pure form of relaying what happened, you know, and kind of why I did what I did and trying to keep track of it. 
So in some sense - so on one hand, it's relieving to at least get to talk about it a little bit, and on the other hand it's frustrating because I really - you know, I feel like - I feel the need to just sit down and tell somebody, you know - how does that go. I hate that phrase being validated, but I guess that's what it is. 
I don't even know where that came from. Who started that anyway? Sucky term.
COUNSELOR: So perhaps my - even my question to you was somewhat frustrating because you were kind of getting into telling it like a story, then here I am, "What's that feel like to you?"
PATIENT: Well, I've sort of given up on it feeling good. So it wasn't frustrating. I mean, I've given up on this private thing, this interaction being, you know, what I want. So I just - so it wasn't frustrating. It's just kind of what I expect. 0:25:38.7 
Seems like more like a workout than a - it's more like going through military training than it is going to a gym.
COUNSELOR: You said  - 
PATIENT: They both produce fitness, I suppose, but  - 
COUNSELOR: You mentioned many times how much work this is for you.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: In some ways it would be much easier for you to come in and have this more cathartic experience, or at least come in and be able to talk about what's happening and kind of spin out ideas about why I do this. Why did I sleep with Cynthia even though I knew it was coming? Why after that did I - or something like that.
PATIENT: Right, right. Now - this is - now, I'll give you full credit. It is work that does seem to - I do when I'm on the phone, when I'm in confrontation with other people, you know, I do notice myself far more able to speak up then I was ever able to. I mean, it's just sort of - I mean, yeah, so in that sense the work is - you know, the training has produced, you know, a better Marine. 0:27:45.4
COUNSELOR: But it's still hard to come to boot camp and get up for boot camp every morning.
PATIENT: Right, right. Well it's just so bloody - I mean there's really no way to wash out. And I mean you go to counseling for eight years, I mean it's really difficult to try this new kind of thing and not expect it to be different. And I keep thinking that this is a New York kind of a thing, you know, to sort of learn how to speak up kind of counseling. You know, I mean, where else in the world would you want to do this. You wouldn't do this in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. (Laughs.) I'm sure, it's sort of a schmoozy, touchy-feely, huggy kind of town. Or at least - who knows - I mean that's a factual assertion. Be interesting to see if it was borne out.
But you're right, it is work and I'm still pouting. I guess not willing to concede that maybe I'm pouting, that maybe I'm just a lazy bum and not willing to come here and work. And that maybe counseling doesn't have to be crying, cathartic and having rebirthing experiences. 0:29:02.1
I gather we're not going to have a rebirthing session here?
COUNSELOR: No, I don't think so.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) 
COUNSELOR: You're joking.
PATIENT: That's true. But I didn't bring up primal scream.
COUNSELOR: No. No, but you're joking. You seem to joke this time right as I was going to say something.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) And now I'm laughing.
COUNSELOR: That's a real marker for you. That's your - what did we call it before? Your Geiger counter, your  - 
PATIENT: Probably, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like we're getting to something radioactive.
PATIENT: So, okay. I don't see how we could. There's nothing boring - more boring than the topic of work. I mean, you pull yourself up by the bootstraps every day.
COUNSELOR: Maybe it's not the topic? 0:30:01.9
PATIENT: It seems pretty close.
COUNSELOR: Are you aware of anything that happens between us in those moments when the Geiger counter goes off? Maybe it has little to do with what we're actually talking about. Maybe it's something in the room with us.
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, I'm really, really, really still sad about - I actually think that I can - I still do concede that this work is productive. But I'm really sad about not getting to talk about this other stuff, and I still - there is no getting around it. And I think that maybe one thing that happens when I'm joking - and I'm speculating, but it does actually rather seem close - is that what I do when I'm joking is I am actually ducking the work. And ducking it because I just don't want to face that I have to do it. I just want to come back with, you know. Does that make any sense? 0:31:47.8
COUNSELOR: It does. It does, but I think I must see it a little differently. Because - this is not intended to be a joke. It's going to sound a little funny considering the fact that I am supposed to be the therapist and you're supposed to be the patient. But I don't look at this process as work, or such hard work. So even your seeing it as work, even your kind of defining it as work or talking about it in that way, as you have often done  - 
PATIENT: That's an interesting point. 0:32:45.7
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you a question that I think is very - may give us a different perspective on this. Can you imagine someone who could come in here and find this process easier than the more cathartic thing talking about real life and that kind of exploration that you seem to find easier?
PATIENT: I kind of go lost in the sentence.
COUNSELOR: You know, it's kind of - let me shift. It's an unfair question. It's a leap.
PATIENT: You mean, can I imagine this as a different process, one that's not so hard?
COUNSELOR: No, let me ask - let me rephrase the question as a statement.
I can imagine someone else who can come in here and find this - this process that we do, this interpersonal thing in focusing on the moment and all that stuff - find that easier than looking back in their past or their current life and talking about it. 0:34:03.0
PATIENT: Okay. Granted, I can see that, too. I can remember that it was not easy to go back and do that stuff.
COUNSELOR: And so what I find myself wondering is what is it in your experience at this that makes it seem so hard? This is like such hard work, such effort.
PATIENT: I just can't let go of the desire for some sort of direction, you know. I mean, this - and, you know, I mean people hire me for this. People hire me to keep track of - people - I mean, I keep track of 12 departments. I mean, I keep track of a frigging school, you know, the directions that various programs are going in, various professors. And I am paid to aggregate together directions and chart what's happening, trends and this and that's. I mean, it's like - and I did this even before I was hired to do this. I mean, this is sort of, you know. 0:35:50.2
So for me to sort of proceed in this freeform fashion, it's hard to because what I'm also doing is trying to sort of keep track of where I am in relation to it. And it seems very hard. And I mean, to come in here and - I mean, it's hard enough coming in here knowing that it's going to end at 30 sessions or 27 or whatever. Like that's hard. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Also, just because it just feels like a one night stand, only it's a 27 night stand. It just feels sort of cheap. And you know, I mean, I just sort of want things to last a long time. 
And like I said, I'm not much of a patient today. I said I feel very foggy. But that's the best I can do as far as an explanation. 0:36:54.6
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah. That's  - 
PATIENT: I mean what would I do? I guess we would just - I just sort of come in here - yeah, I could see it. I could come in here and sort of experiment, you know, with Jim. Kind of just hang out. I don't do that, you know. It's just - it's not who I am. 
I mean, don't think you have to take out a court order or anything, but I would like to conduct myself in a way that, you know, if I ran into you in five years or ten years or something like that, there would still be the sense of, you know, we had a relationship that had integrity. And you would, you know, you would - I mean we wouldn't have to be buddies or anything like that, but that you would - there would be some concern. It wasn't just a quick, you know, debate. We weren't the debate team or something like that. 
I'm not sure. I'm really rambling. 0:38:10.8
COUNSELOR: Well, it's interesting in fact that you're rambling, because part of what you seem to be talking about is the lack of what we might call structure in here or rules or things defining it. 
PATIENT: You know what, I find all relationships stressful. (Laughs.) You know what, I mean, that's just really what it is. I meet somebody and the first thing I do is I start - I get out a new piece of granite and I start etching stuff into it, you know. And you know the old saying, (inaudible at 0:38:46.6) in granite? That has nothing to do with how I interact with people. 
I mean I just - I do start etching it in granite. And - I mean and people like it sometimes. I mean, people like it when you know exactly what they said and when they said it, or have a very - have at least an above average memory for what's taken place in the past. Not many people do that. 
But now that I think about it, I have actually no other mode of operating. I don't have a light and fluffy mode, you know. It's like the dryer, you know. It's always heavy - (laughs) - heavy cotton. I like this. This is an insight. It's always heavy. 
I don't have a sort of a - I mean, Jesus, I feel like I walk through the day and it's like some sort of Russian novel, you know. It's just heavy and there's always 15 centuries behind it. And it's always filled with death and darkness. And, you know, I mean - and even - I mean when I play it up light, it's always so f***ing calculated, you know. 0:40:01.9
COUNSELOR: Calculate is a good word.
PATIENT: Yeah, sure.
COUNSELOR: It'd be nice if you could map out your relationships on your Palm Pilot.
PATIENT: I do. (Laughs.) What are you talking about?
COUNSELOR: But in here, it's harder to do that. Like it would be hard any particular day to come in here with an agenda of what to talk about because you know all of a sudden I'm going to go - 
PATIENT: What's that  - 
COUNSELOR: - start to say something, right, about what's that about or something like that. And whatever list or outline or whatever you might have had in the beginning is probably you're not going to go through in the way that you would hope or expect or whatever. 0:41:01.0
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Is that  - 
PATIENT: I have - this hurts. That's right. I mean, you're right about this other thing. So maybe this is a skill I need to learn, you know. Or at least something to think about. I don't know if you were right about that, but it is an interesting point, or at least it seems interesting to me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you know, whether or not it's a skill you need to learn, you know, I don't know about that. But that could be. I don't know. But maybe that's part of what makes this hard for you. Maybe that's something that's  - 
PATIENT: You know, even with - right. And there's a bunch of things sort of getting tacked onto this as we talk about it. I mean, in my brain, this is bringing up all kinds of issues. 0:42:45.8
One is - I'll bring them up in sequence as opposed to stating them all at the same time. Well, I guess one is ever since I started hanging out with you, something inside me told me that - this is going to sound really f***ing bizarre - that actually that Cynthia would like somebody like you, somebody who wasn't agonizing over every little thing. And I was actually maybe kind of jealous. 
And I actually even was upset thinking that you guys might even run into - and as sick as that sounds and as strange as that sounds, it's like what - and even stranger, I mean, Cynthia even was wondering about getting help for herself through the brief psychotherapy program, which even made it a possibility that she would even bump into you. And I just thought, oh f***. That just made me feel horrible. And I hope you sign something that says you can't do that. 0:44:06.4
But it also made me feel bad because all the while I was dating Cynthia, she wanted me to be more flexible. And not - you know, it's just like why couldn't I roll with the punches. And the more we dated, the more I became rigid as shit. 
Because - do you see why this is - do you see what this is - I mean, I can't keep track of this right now. I mean, I've lost it already. But I know that something must be going on here because it seems to hang together for me.
But it just seems very strange to me that it just - like letting go in here and many - oh, god, it was like letting go out there - I couldn't. Cynthia would kill me. Cynthia would be the death of me. I guess that's the more accurate saying because letting go with her would be living her life, you know. I mean, it would be her partying until three in the morning, and then, you know, and her deciding on Thursday that she's going to go visit her mother on Friday, you know. Or her whatever. She doesn't want to build a life together, but, you know, and I grew to hate it. 0:45:18.6
And so here's this thing sort of freeform in here, and it goes against everything I can remember.
COUNSELOR: Letting go in here would mean playing my game.
PATIENT: This hurts.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It really feels strange. This really feels strange. Can I tell you how much fear makes things (inaudible at 0:46:07.7).
COUNSELOR: What seems to have done it?
PATIENT: I don't know. This whole yearning I have with Cynthia. I just feel like so many things were twisted. At least I certainly feel lost right now.
I hope it doesn't sound weird, but about - I just knew that you and Cynthia would get along. You're so f***ing affable.
COUNSELOR: Actually, I don't think it sounds as weird to me as you think it might.
PATIENT: Did you meet her?
COUNSELOR: No, I never met her. And even though I don't sign anything, ethically that is a definite no-no.
PATIENT: It would be really crazy. 0:47:01.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You know, it's a conflict of interest just like a lawyer might have. But that's beside the point. 
Yeah, I mean it doesn't seem so weird, actually, because if I understand you right, she's telling you all along be less like you are and more like this. And you come in here, then your impression of me was that I was more like that, that she was telling you.
PATIENT: Right. Let go, at least.
COUNSELOR: Right. Which you had resisted with her all along.
PATIENT: Right. And in all fairness, it wasn't even with her. I mean, it just feels like ever since I got to this frigging town, it's always everybody else's terms, and I just - I'm fighting like mad to keep some little something of myself behind. 
But I - you know, I like keep getting swallowed up by different issues, you know. I didn't become a professor. I became an administrator. Well, there goes my - you know, the academic content of my soul, you know. Well, I haven't quite been able to afford individual housing, so I lose privacy at home. There goes another little part. 
And then I - and then there's Cynthia. You know, who just makes all that sort of worse. And yeah, and so here's the last little bit of it in here. 0:48:49.2
COUNSELOR: And where's, you know, where is Ted's space? Can he know what's going on?
PATIENT: Yeah, where is  - 
COUNSELOR: And how to say what's going on. 
PATIENT: That's pretty good. That's why this has worked. That's why this has been work. Is because I feel like - excuse me. Yeah, because I feel like that's what was at stake, is that this is the last holdout. And I was losing this one too. 0:49:46.5
Well, I wish there was a nice little happy ending here. I guess I feel pretty nervous.
COUNSELOR: You feel nervous?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Right now?
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know why. It's very - I don't feel peaceful right now. I guess I'm sort of frightened about what's going on. Let's see, I guess I can always pull into my resolve, but I think it'd be a change that I would just dump you just like I dumped Cynthia. And I don't feel that necessarily right now. I don't feel that here. 0:50:50.0
COUNSELOR: More nervous.
PATIENT: Well it is a pretty big insight - (laughs) to - I mean, that was - it's a good point to have made. I've lost the talent for letting go and just letting some situations happen. Or control, I mean I even joked about it as we were walking in.
COUNSELOR: You did.
PATIENT: Yeah, you know how I love control. 
When do you want to meet next?
COUNSELOR: Well, before we talk about that, just let me say, I just want to say a about what you were just saying. You know, I'm thinking too that it is a good insight. But one I think that you really made, you know. It was you who said when I asked you about why this was work, why this is so hard, it was you who said I come in here and it's too freeform for me, and it's too, you know, right. 0:52:12.8
PATIENT: You were the one that knew to look at the idea of work. That was your insight.
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm glad I asked the right question. I'm glad. 
But yeah, I think, you know, you looking at something has - something about yourself that you hit upon and that can be a little anxiety provoking is my guess. You know.
PATIENT: You know, I actually feared being an uptight guy for the rest of my life, always having to (inaudible at 0:52:55.5) for Cynthia, always having to do this. I don't want that really I don't think. But you'd never know by looking at me in the last couple of months because if I didn't do that it was death, you know. So this is an interesting twist indeed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well you said something interesting about that, too. And I'm not - I don't know what to make of this now, but maybe this has something to do with it. You pointed out that the more she wanted you to be flexible, the more you kind of became that uptight guy.
PATIENT: Right. Even that word - I banned that word from my discussion.
COUNSELOR: Uptight? Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah. She said because (inaudible) I said I don't want to hear that frigging word again. What you call flexible I call help. And it was, you know.
COUNSELOR: Uptight is not a positive characterization at all. Certainly not.
PATIENT: But anyway.
COUNSELOR: Well  - 
PATIENT: Yeah, so.
COUNSELOR: If you would like to - there are a couple of things we should talk about actually. One is when to have our next session. The other is, can we - I just want to ask. I know your schedule's up and down. Can we think about having - I know we're kind of scheduling ad hoc, but nevertheless just a day, a week that we'll plan on doing that or something like that?
PATIENT: Doing what? 0:54:25.5
COUNSELOR: Having this session even if we're scheduling week after - even if we're scheduling week by week. This sounds contradictory, but let me see if I can lay it out. Even if we continue scheduling session by session, as we discussed last time, can we just have a time that we usually - a day that we usually consider. A day like Wednesdays, for example. 
PATIENT: I thought we were doing Tuesday, Thursdays.
COUNSELOR: Tuesday, Thursday, is that what you want to do? Let's do that then.
PATIENT: Okay, yeah.
COUNSELOR: So I can meet on - I can meet this Thursday if you'd like.
PATIENT: See you Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Okay, sounds good.
PATIENT: Same bat time, same bat channel.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I can't - I don't know if this room will be available every Tuesday and Thursday, but we've had pretty good luck at getting it. And if not, we'll be around here somewhere. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: All right?
PATIENT: Okay. Thanks, Jim.
COUNSELOR: Sure. I'll see you day after tomorrow.
PATIENT: See you then.
COUNSELOR: Okay, take it easy.
PATIENT: Yep. I hope it's not raining.
COUNSELOR: I hope so too. Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
