TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Session 10
CLIENT: I came up about three minutes ago and it was closed so I figured that your client was still here.
COUNSELOR: I think I was rewinding your tape, actually.
CLIENT: I have decided to get a job.
COUNSELOR: But you have a job, right?
CLIENT: No. I have been trying a few places. They don't like people with records.
COUNSELOR: M-hm, it is hard to get one.
CLIENT: And poor job records too. I have decided I should pay some of my bills. Like I should be getting another one from here pretty soon.
COUNSELOR: Should be getting what?
CLIENT: Should be getting another bill.
COUNSELOR: Are you worried about your bills?
CLIENT: I don't care about the bills, really. Ah, it is nice to pay. It gives you a kind of independence, you know.
COUNSELOR: You see, the way you are saying it, I can't tell if you really want a job or are you just, there is nothing else to do - it is like (inaudible 1:44) ?
CLIENT: I am getting bored! It usually ends up that I either sit around getting bored or else I do something for my dad. Working but not getting paid for it. So, I don't work unless I get paid for it.
COUNSELOR: M-hm. So you are not really very enthusiastic about it but it is better than sitting at home doing nothing?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yesterday, I applied for a job at an MG dealer - for a job as a mechanic. And he would go to my work record and say: "This isn't very good you know. It doesn't really qualify you for this job." And this application form isn't very complete either." I put down all I could, you know. It is not easy for me to (inaudible 2:37). The longer I listened to him the more, in theory, I felt like it was my fault. Coming in there and wasting his time - I should know better. He was telling me about the Ford dealer across the street, about how they pay their mechanics and everything. (3:00)
I felt really rotten the longer he talked because the rate for a mechanic - a journeyman - is about $5-$5.50 and hour or something like that and I was asking $3.70 to start at this place. "In the end, We'll train if need." Well, I think they just threw that in because I seemed real eager to be trained.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like maybe you feel real stupid for even coming to talk to him?
CLIENT: He said he was going to call me back for another job, polishing cars - just kind of washing and polishing, which is really...I don't think I would seriously like that. He said he would call me if that job was open but there was no possibility of getting the job I wanted. I was kind of waiting for him to call today - or hoping that he would call when I was at home.
COUNSELOR: And you are really angry at him?
CLIENT: Yeah. He asked me a few things about overhauling different parts of cars and he used all these real technical terms that you get out of a book. And nobody uses those. I don't know how anyone else was supposed to match. And so he asked me (inaudible 4:22). I knew what he was talking about except for one technical term and he said: "See, I told you you didn't know anything."
COUNSELOR: So you felt that he was out to prove that you didn't know anything?
CLIENT: Yes. And he asked me if I could do certain things to the car and I said : "Yes." And he said: "Well, I don't believe you." And the more I think about it the madder I get.
COUNSELOR: And the more you would like just the chance to tell him that, right?
CLIENT: Tell him how nasty he is. Even if he did call me for the job, I don't know if I would want it - I wouldn't work for him as a trainee. I don't think I would either.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is just that you are laughing. I don't know. When you are saying: "I am angry" and you are laughing. I don't know if you really ...
CLIENT: I am kind of laughing...I don't know...The "angry" is over. I would still (inaudible 5:40) if I talked to him again. It's not the kind of fighting anger that there was before.
COUNSELOR: Is it real, like, scarring, or...?
CLIENT: It is just...I don't know...nothing I can do about it - forget it! (chuckles) (6:02)
COUNSELOR: Forget it. Get up on that!
CLIENT: I am kind of glad it happened really because it showed me that even if I do decide to do that kind of work - it completely changed my mind. Now I don't think there is any possibility of me even wanting to become a mechanic. I don't think it is a reaction against him. Anybody who has anything to do with an auto repair center has somehow given me a negative outlook towards it - with one exception. There is a gas station here (inaudible 6:48). They are pretty good. But all the rest of them - it seems like a racket of some kind. There were all these journeymen mechanics, and head mechanics are making phenomenal amounts of money. Well not really - they are making good money. And, yet, they are absolutely stupid.
Because I have seen some of the work they do. I am not that smart of a mechanic but I could do stuff. Like, when they have a cracked piston, you know, take the old one out and get a new one for open board. And then they will bore out...just the one cylinder. So you have seven cylinders the one size and another one in another size. It is just not possible that engine is going to last more than 20,000 miles. In fact it would last 5,000, to get off the end of the warranty if you are lucky.
COUNSELOR: So you could really be a better mechanic than most of them?
CLIENT: Yeah. It is so obvious the things they do. My dad used to bring his truck in. He had a brand new Chevy truck last year - I think he still has it. The rear end kind of jerks for him because it is in (inaudible 8:06) traction when you go round the corner. He had it in there four times and it got worse!
COUNSELOR: (Laughs) So it just seems stupid to you?
CLIENT: Yeah. I wouldn't have done it except... any work I would touch on the car avoided the warranty. Just let it go until it falls apart. It won't fall apart but it was just an inconvenient noise.
COUNSELOR: Their stupidity and the way they do things really annoys you - makes you feel: "Well I wouldn't want to work with them"?
CLIENT: Yes, and then on top of that, this guy telling you how fabulous...how much experience you have to have to do this sort of thing. How great a job it is and "we pay the best." (8:58)
COUNSELOR: I am going to question what that did to you?
CLIENT: It was an obvious contradiction but I didn't really see it at the time. I would point it out. And now that I see it, it makes the whole thing just kind of stink. I would go and get a job in any factory for at least $3 to $3.50 an hour now. And he wants me starting in polishing cars and (inaudible 9:23) court. It is the same. He can pick up any high school kid that wants to work for that.
COUNSELOR: But you don't want to put up with that - the treatment?
CLIENT: The last two jobs I have been making close to four dollars an hour. I asked for $3.70 on this job - less than I was making. He wanted to give me about half (chuckles). He said: "Oh, we have very good fringe benefits." Oh yeah (chuckles). It doesn't come up in cash, does it? I don't know - I just want to forget about it.
COUNSELOR: But you are irritated and the way you are irritated is: "Well, let us just forget that."
CLIENT: Yes, never mind. I applied at the [CP] ("ph") Corporation and I was treated much better there. It is not better. It is kind of, eh, kind of crumby job. I guess it is going to get boring if they do call me. But they were nice to me. I filled out the application, took their aptitude test. Got the highest score in the company! (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Did you?
CLIENT: I think I did, yeah. Because it is supposed to take 15 minutes and most people only got about half the test done and I finished it in 10. I got almost (inaudible 10:58)
COUNSELOR: Pleased that you did all that well?
CLIENT: Yeah. Then they asked me...it had on the application have you ever been arrested and for what reason, where, when and what was the case disposition. So I just put down: "Yes I had been arrested in April this year. It was in Chicago and the case hasn't come up yet. That is all I said. So that would be the only thing they don't want. And if I don't get the job I know it is because of that. I really don't see why big corporations do that. What are they doing? They all just have to kind of accept it.
COUNSELOR: And that seems a bit ridiculous to you? (11:57)
CLIENT: Yeah,. Not only that but it is...I have gotten off my point (chuckles). Like talking to that guy at that dealer - car dealer - it made me think that while...I was beginning to think that maybe I couldn't get a job because there was something really wrong with me. Maybe I just couldn't hack living around here.
COUNSELOR: There is something wrong with your ability?
CLIENT: Yeah. And it kind of gives you very serious doubts when everybody says: "No, we can't hire you, sorry." Not everybody but the few places I have tried. If I could see that it was only because of that arrest - and it is not because of some great fault of mine - it would make me feel a whole lot better. Even if I don't get the job, then at least I know why.
COUNSELOR: Then you know that that is the reason why you didn't get it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Whereas, now, sometimes it seems to you like there is some big failing in you?
CLIENT: Yeah. I wonder if I should go back to the construction trade? I don't know, I made pretty big money. I would kind of like to try that again. Not for the same boss (chuckles). I would really like to do something that I would enjoy doing but it just doesn't seem to be possible. So the next best thing is to have good money!
COUNSELOR: What kind of things would you enjoy doing?
CLIENT: I like working on cars.
COUNSELOR: Like what?
CLIENT: Working on cars. They have some beautiful Jaguars.
COUNSELOR: When you think about it, you really would like to do that. It is just fun to be there working on those engines?
CLIENT: It is so...the atmosphere and the way - just the way things are run. You know, auto repair shops completely spoil any possibility of me enjoying a Jag.
COUNSELOR: It is the people you would have to put up with?
CLIENT: The people and the managers. And just the general way they go about doing things. Like doing things half way - sometimes not doing them at all.
COUNSELOR: The shabbiness of it? (14:55)
CLIENT: Yeah. They give the mechanics $5.50 an hour. What very few people know is that they charge the customers $18 an hour for every hour that the mechanic works. That is just one dealership I know. Most of them I don't know if they do that or not. But I know of one dealership that does that.
COUNSELOR: And you wouldn't like to be that mechanic?
CLIENT: Where is the other 13 dollars of that going? (chuckles). And then the poor customers get soaked. The mechanic gets screwed. Because if he went out and made his own garage he would be making much more than that.
COUNSELOR: So you would really like to do that but the conditions you would have to work under just make that impossible?
CLIENT: I keep going back to that, you know. But when I work on cars for like a week or two straight - working on neighbors' cars, my car, my dad's car - just constantly. Working on them each and every day, I get very discouraged at it.
COUNSELOR: Discouraged?
CLIENT: Because it is hard.
COUNSELOR: It is hard work, yeah.
CLIENT: It combines...I don't have all the equipment that I need so I have to do some things half way sometimes. I don't like to do that and that is what is discouraging.
COUNSELOR: You would like to really do a good job?
CLIENT: Yeah but the tools are really way out of price range. I always go back to it but then when I do it for a while I get discouraged.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like your discouragement is not that you can't do it, or something. In that case, it isn't the conditions but it is that you don't have the tools?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You don't have a way to do it?
CLIENT: M-hm.
COUNSELOR: But something always brings you back to that - the pull back to that?
CLIENT: Yeah. Things have really improved between my girl and me since I came back here. It is amazing (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: You sound like you are really pleased about it and also there is a quality to looking at the whole thing, almost, from the outside?
CLIENT: It is something I didn't have before I dated Kelly. Before I lived with Kelly, I had all kinds of different reasons for living with Kelly. I think one of them was I actually it would help somehow. I didn't know really how or why but I just thought it would though. (18:15)
COUNSELOR: Intuition?
CLIENT: Yeah, and if I hadn't have done that it would be so much different now. I think it would probably be the same way as it was before. Kind of, like, we both were disgusted with each other all the time. We don't do that at all now.
COUNSELOR: Somehow, because you don't have a ring issue - somehow the whole relationship is different?
CLIENT: M-hm. I am not just her boyfriend anymore - I am a natural person.
COUNSELOR: Like you wanted that status?
CLIENT: M-hm.
COUNSELOR: You became somebody different?
CLIENT: But it feels good just to be around her now. In fact, in the past eight days I have seen her five times.
COUNSELOR: It is like being her boyfriend was confining you somehow?
CLIENT: M-hm.
COUNSELOR: And now there is a freedom?
CLIENT: M-hm. I think it is the same for her too. Sometimes when I listen to the radio and I hear a song or something. Just like the words of the song or just the melody or something, I think of her. How beautiful it is just loving her. When she goes to college I am really going to miss her because I want her. (21:00)
We were talking about the possibility of me going to jail. She didn't really want to talk about it but I did. I didn't really want to talk about it either but I was just kind of joking. She was very concerned about it.
COUNSELOR: And it meant something to you that she was concerned about that?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just can't see myself behind bars - if you're not at home. How really neat it is to be around her. It is bad enough going away to school - her going to school - but then, I could almost lose it then. But if I can't do that it is going to be really bad.
I am trying to think what (inaudible 23:08). I don't know. Maybe it is because we have gone through so much. She makes me feel completely different than anyone else has ever done. Maybe it is just me. The way I let her affect me.
COUNSELOR: She does something to you that is so unique, so good?
CLIENT: What is really neat about her is that I think it goes (inaudible 23:52) (23:52)
The past couple of days sometimes I kind of feel like I am just closing in, getting a shell around me, the shell gets harder.
COUNSELOR: Crawling into yourself, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I could sit in my room and protect (inaudible 25:38) or something. Usually I like to listen to music but now sometimes when I listen to it, I don't hear music.
COUNSELOR: You shut yourself off from it?
CLIENT: Yeah, and I just stare at one spot and pretty soon I don't even see what I am staring at. My room is just...I don't even know what it is...it is active. It is not just a sitting room. I am not really conscious of (inaudible 26:16) or how I am thinking. (26:17)
COUNSELOR: It is, like, turned off from what is going on around you.
CLIENT: Yeah, it is really relaxing.
COUNSELOR: There is an ease about that - a comfort about that? (27:00)
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Are you not cool about that? It is almost that you like that in many ways but there is something about it that concerns me too in the way you say the "shell" part?
CLIENT: It feels like...I don't know...I guess it feels pretty much like I am stoned.
COUNSELOR: That you are what?
CLIENT: Stoned. Drunk, you know?
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah. In the sense of what?
CLIENT: Kind of relaxed and not worried about anything. Not thinking about anything. And not really sensing too much - just kind of existing.
 COUNSELOR: Away from things?
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes I just want to feel that way just to forget something.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like so much of your life is really, really bad that it is such a relief to get away from it sometimes?
CLIENT: Yeah, I kind of think last year was like that too except I got stoned a lot last year. It kind of makes me want to go out and drunk again.
COUNSELOR: To forget it again, is that what you mean?
CLIENT: Just to stop thinking for just a little while - to stop having to live with all the pressure.
COUNSELOR: It is like it just gets to be too much too cope with all the time?
CLIENT: I don't think so - not like that.
COUNSELOR: Not like that?
CLIENT: If I viewed it like that - that it was too much to cope with - to me that seems kind of suicidal, you know, and it isn't like that. I can take it but I just want a little less tax.
COUNSELOR: But there is a quality of life where all this pressure is just something you have to take?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You have to learn to live under that burden.
CLIENT: M-hm. (29:51)
COUNSELOR: A feeling of resignation seems to be a part of that too in the sense that the feeling that you really will never get out from under that stuff. But the best thing to do is to learn to live with it. Is that right?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not happening. The other half...it is like...I just can't go out and get drunk. Sometimes I would tell my girlfriend about it and she would think it was because of her but that is just not true.
COUNSELOR: M-hm.
CLIENT: Because of her going away - she would blame herself. For me it doesn't have very much to do with that.
COUNSELOR: That's like you can't get drunk because she couldn't really understand what you meant by that?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just saw that a little bit different. I imagine, like right now, I couldn't do it because I know I would tell her. It would slip out somehow. Maybe I would enjoy it and I would want her to know about it. I think that would probably be it. But I couldn't do it now because somehow I would tell her. I couldn't do it when she went to school because then it would seem, to me, it actually would seem like I was doing it because she was going back to school. And I think it probably would be that.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that is something you don't want to feel. You don't want to think you will be really depressed about her leaving?
CLIENT: I know I would feel depressed.
COUNSELOR: I know.
CLIENT: I am going to feel rotten about it somehow. It is just kind of inevitable. (32:58)
COUNSELOR: M-hm.
CLIENT: But I don't think that is the right reason for getting stoned.
COUNSELOR: You don't want those two things to be connected?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because in the past that has been a reason for getting stoned. It was often a reason to get drunk.
COUNSELOR: And that somehow...
CLIENT: That is a pattern I don't want to repeat.
COUNSELOR: M-hm. And that some...
CLIENT: It is hard to separate between that pattern and another pattern.
COUNSELOR: M-hm. There is something about that pattern that makes you feel bad about yourself?
CLIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Is it something that makes you feel weak?
CLIENT: It kind of makes me fell crumby, I guess. When I think now of when I used to get drunk, I kind of despise it because it is kind of degrading. When you think about it, you know. I do regret saying to yourself: "I am not really worth very much without that other person." And so, forget about it.
COUNSELOR: Forget about?
CLIENT: Drinking. It is the only way I can forget about it.
COUNSELOR: You can forget about fact of how little, unimportant or worthless you feel? (35:48)
CLIENT: M-hm. (Sound of plane) They followed me - I live right next to an airport!
COUNSELOR: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I hate them now. I used to enjoy watching them go over the house at 500 feet. Now, if they go over 2,000 I am really annoyed at that.
COUNSELOR: The noise?
CLIENT: Yeah, it is just their presence. The very fact that they are there and I can't do anything but hear a noise.
COUNSELOR: They are invading your territory.
CLIENT: I guess it is part of the pressure.
COUNSELOR: External stuff, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, the planes going over just made it very obvious, you know. You really are just kind of a pawn.
COUNSELOR: You are very small and insignificant. And haven't much to do with....
CLIENT: Yeah, it doesn't really matter if the noise is going to make people go deaf. They are not going to stop because it is making money.
COUNSELOR: It doesn't matter to them. So part of the pressure is realizing you don't make any difference to any of those people?
CLIENT: Even today, out in (Rose Hill), there is a small, private airport with just very small, private planes and there is one landing strip that goes near the house. I would be a lot out there now - I was doing some soil tests today. And I was even getting mad at these itty bitty planes!
COUNSELOR: Why are they coming over here?
CLIENT: First you have the big ones and then you have the little ones. Where did the little ones come from?
COUNSELOR: What is that about them coming there - just being there? (38:45)
CLIENT: Like, I don't know. I would really to just go somewhere alone for about a year (chuckles). Kind of solitary confinement - see the mailman once a week or something. I think I would really like that. I think I would go insane after a while. I would get so lonesome that I would (inaudible 39:21)
COUNSELOR: There is something very pleasant.
CLIENT: I would like to try it at least. The more I dream of what is going to happen after everything is over with court and everything, the more I think I am just going to get in my car and just start driving. I am going to drive until there is nobody else left on the road. And then I am going to start going cross-country!
COUNSELOR: You want some time to yourself - some space to yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Some peaceful surroundings.
CLIENT: Because just the presence of other people drives me up the rails. But I can't just stop watching out for other people.
COUNSELOR: But there are times when you just don't want to watch out for other people.
CLIENT: Yeah, why can't I be a selfish brat for a while!
COUNSELOR: That would really be funny to be selfish and not worry about running into people?
CLIENT: Yeah. The more I think about it, the further away it seems!
COUNSELOR: What is the (inaudible 40:42)?
CLIENT: Like maybe I will never see it. Maybe by the time I get off probation or out of jail - or whatever they are going to do to me - that there won't be any more open space.
COUNSELOR: I see, it will be too late.
CLIENT: Yeah, or if there is, it will be impossible to get there. Like, the Antarctica is open. Whatever good that does!
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Plenty of parking and get your dog sleigh.
CLIENT: Got to cross an ocean first.
COUNSELOR: True, get out your boat.
CLIENT: With your 60 dollars in your bank account.
COUNSELOR: That sounds like you have a very closed inner (inaudible 41:28).You are surrounded, pressed upon.
CLIENT: It is kind of the same pressure I felt before I robbed my bank.
COUNSELOR: That it was somehow related to that.
CLIENT: By getting the money - that would relieve all the pressure right there. Money works wonders in this country - it is amazing when I think about it. (41:55)
COUNSELOR: But that you felt the pressure even then to get out from under things. In a way, get some freedom?
CLIENT: I think that was one of the biggest reasons for doing it. I think maybe there wasn't enough hate generated - it was just pressure. Like now it is starting to affect me more because there is less that I can do about it than before. And so it just kind of builds up and there is no place for it to go so it stays there.
COUNSELOR: It could almost boil over but there is nowhere for it to boil?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It is stuck up inside of you. What is that pressure like in life?
CLIENT: Like going out with my girl so much in the past week. I found that I can't really talk to her because I am always going to come out with stuff that isn't really going to make for the best of relationships between us. And it really has very little to do with her.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like, you might say, angry things or unkind things?
CLIENT: Yeah, or get very sarcastic about things.
COUNSELOR: Because you really feel that way inside but there is no outlet for that?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I have to guard what I say all the time.
COUNSELOR: M-hm.
CLIENT: I catch myself being that way sometimes.
COUNSELOR: It almost slips out.
CLIENT: It does. I have to think, well, when am I going to stop this?
COUNSELOR: I guess that makes me wonder. I haven't heard you be sarcastic in here. Does that mean you feel guarded in that same way when you are here?
CLIENT: I don't know. I kind of wonder if that would really do anything - just to say it - because the pressure will still be there.
COUNSELOR: To be sarcastic, it doesn't really release any of that pressure?
CLIENT: Instead of blowing up I have to do something about it. There is very little I can do so I have to find a way of accepting it.
COUNSELOR: It feels like the way to get rid of that pressure is through action, like what? (45:00)
CLIENT: You have got me! (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: I guess what I want to say is that if you feel like being sarcastic, well here is one place where you can do that without worrying. It is not going to break up the relationship with your girlfriend.
CLIENT: I don't know. It isn't constant. I don't realize it all the time. Maybe I just don't think about it. Like driving down here, I was really having a ball! I usually hate every second of it.
COUNSELOR: But tonight you are really enjoying it?
CLIENT: I felt like waving to everybody I passed. I passed a lot of people!
COUNSELOR: (Laughs) You waved to a lot of people!
CLIENT: No, I just felt like it. You can wave to a few people.
COUNSELOR: So sometimes you really just feel happy?
CLIENT: Yeah. I even took a different way down here.
COUNSELOR: Just for the fun of it?
CLIENT: No, I just wanted to see if it took longer to (inaudible 46:34) than it does to take the (inaudible 46:38). It takes shorter by about 15 minutes. So I am going to go that way from now on. I just felt something funny.
COUNSELOR: What.
CLIENT: I just felt like screaming.
COUNSELOR: Just now?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Scream what?
CLIENT: Just scream. I don't know. What I would feel like afterwards. Just hearing my voice echoing between the walls.
COUNSELOR: What would you feel like afterwards?
CLIENT: That is what I was wondering. I think it was kind of stupid afterwards.
COUNSELOR: You feel stupid?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Embarrassed?
CLIENT: Maybe. I think it would be more like I would wonder what the (inaudible 47:55) now. (48:00)
COUNSELOR: You feel like doing it anyway - or you felt like it - Then you felt: "What good would that do? What is going on here. What would that prove. How would that help?" Something like that?
CLIENT: Yeah. Do you have men in white coats around?
COUNSELOR: What?
CLIENT: Do you have men in white coats around?
COUNSELOR: No (laughs). You afraid one of them might get you if you scream?
CLIENT: After being in a hospital - or a psychiatric ward - I think that completely cures you of any inclination to be angry or anything like that.
COUNSELOR: Like you are almost afraid to be?
CLIENT: You can't be. You can't show anything. If you cry there, they put you restraints.
COUNSELOR: Here, nothing is going to happen if you scream.
CLIENT: I am not going to scream. I was just wondering.
COUNSELOR: H-hm?
CLIENT: I don't think I will. I was just wondering.
COUNSELOR: You just wanted to consider it?
CLIENT: I think in the hospital - I am going to say it is really bad. They put my room mate in the straits for not cleaning up daily.
COUNSELOR: So you had to be very restrained in what you did?
CLIENT: I really didn't because I didn't really feel like doing any screaming or any yelling or anything like that. It was all about the tenth bag or the eighth bag. Then it started to hurt. I can picture this girl I know who has been there five months now. That is really bad. This other guy, he is an (Inaudible 49:52) as........he is in for this ninth one now. Back and forth between (inaudible 50:00) He says: "After a while, it gets so that you can take anything. They would put you in restraints for weeks and you would not even care." That pretty scares me sometimes.
COUNSELOR: Scares you how?
CLIENT: Because it feels like the pressure is doing the same thing to me sometimes.
COUNSELOR: That is what I wondered about when you said that.
CLIENT: Maybe after a while I don't care anymore. Maybe it is getting that way.
COUNSELOR: Does it scare you that maybe your (inaudible 50:31) has to put up with anything and it wouldn't matter to you?
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe that is happening.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you really do feel that way. Is that how you feel right now?
CLIENT: It is not as strong as it is sometimes, you know. (51:00)
COUNSELOR: Right now you do care?
CLIENT: Just a little!
COUNSELOR: Slightly! That is a fear in the back of your mind. "Am I going in the right direction?"
CLIENT: If it is out, it is fear.
COUNSELOR: It is what? And that would be okay with you?
CLIENT: Kind of, yeah.
COUNSELOR: More like you are wondering if it is that?
CLIENT: Like giving up. (Inaudible 51:51) Like four months ago, if that guy from the car dealer had started talking to me like that, I would have started yelling at him. I could immediately see how stupid his arguments were and tell him: "I know I am good. I know I can do the job."
COUNSELOR: But something has happened to you in the last four months that has made you feel your beaten down?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like pushed to the ground and kind of like (inaudible 52:36)?
CLIENT: Yeah, unless it is something (Inaudible 52:50) I applied for a job and I got sufficiently discouraged that I wouldn't go try again tomorrow. And I did try again.
COUNSELOR: I am not really sure what you are telling me. That you really felt that you were discouraged?
CLIENT: Yeah. Every time I try, something happens.
COUNSELOR: Almost, every time you try, it is like you can't win - really discouraging?
CLIENT: Anything that I come up with as an answer to any problem I have, normally I just come up with the wrong answer.
COUNSELOR: That you never seem to be able to hit the right answer?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So it is very discouraging to always be trying and never getting out of it?
CLIENT: It seems like when I do try, it gets worse. (53:55)
COUNSELOR: Even trying makes it worse?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What you do, it gets you in deeper?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That must be really depressing?
CLIENT: Yeah. I thought of what would happen last night, what would happen. (inaudible 55:45) have my final words. What would I say?
COUNSELOR: Did you decide?
CLIENT: Yeah. What if everything was over and I could go back to school and talk to some of the people I knew in (inaudible 56:30) science classes. Like, just tell them what it was like. Tell them what is was like. They know what it is like to be in school I wouldn't have to tell them that. I wouldn't have to tell them what it is like to have to work. Have to tell them what it is like to be arrested for the first time. Because to be a police officer you can never be arrested. And they wouldn't know. They would have no idea. Except for the people who they would have seen but that is a totally different from experience. (57:10)
COUNSELOR: They couldn't really understand.
CLIENT: No, I think I could just start out and say that...I really don't know what I would say. What happens when you have been busted? Going to jail. Going through useless psychiatric exercises in the hospital. Then you try and find a job and think maybe it will be alright. And how you get everything thrown back in your face. What is it like to live with a record where everyone looks at you, kind of, funny. You aren't serious about something - like a job. And when you try, nothing happens. And you keep trying and it gets worse. And you know you can't(inaudible 58:47) very long (inaudible 58:48) because it's quite big. Because you have more bills that have to be paid. Because if you do your job, you won't be able to fix your car because you won't have time. And if you don't fix your car, it is going to fall apart - you won't have a way to get to your job. And pretty soon, you lose your job. And if you are lucky, your car won't fall apart. And maybe you will get an apartment. (59:30)
And someday they will find out you have got a record. And it wasn't that good of a job in the first place. And then what happens when they fire you? It just seems inevitable. It seems that the more you try - the way society said it is good to try - the worse off you are. Once you start it, it seems like an endless cycle. Every week points up but it never becomes that way. Everyone says: "You'll make it - you're trying." That doesn't seem to make a difference. Every good job I've had, I have got by accident. It wasn't because I was qualified and I knew the work. I kind of just fell into it. Makes you wonder why I try anymore. Why don't I just wait until I fall into one. What if I didn't fall into one would I be working again?
COUNSELOR: Trying seems so hopeless?
CLIENT: Maybe I should rob another jewelry store. Only do it good this time - get away.
COUNSELOR: Because everything else seems really hopeless - a dead end?
CLIENT: Yeah. And once the police start asking questions - they have a lot of policeman in there trying for advancements. And I just thought of asking them just to think, when they take a kid, what's going on in that kid's mind; what is going to happen to that kid? And if they think like that before they ask questions, maybe afterwards. He had been in jail a couple of times.
COUNSELOR: To realize all the unhappiness and suffering that it is causing?
CLIENT: They wouldn't even think of it.
COUNSELOR: And they didn't think of it when they arrested you?
CLIENT: Because if they did think of it, they wouldn't arrest you. They wouldn't give you a mark which you hide for the rest of your life. We wouldn't even need policemen. Everything seems kind of upside down. (62:55)
COUNSELOR: It seems like somehow once you have that mark against you, there is no way to work your way out of that. And the bitterness towards those people who do that to you.
CLIENT: And there is only one place for the bitterness to go. It goes inside - it stays there. It turns to hate and it tears you apart. I can't cry too much because it always comes back.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
CLIENT: If I would cry openly - I couldn't.
COUNSELOR: If you could cry what?
CLIENT: I felt like I could cry openly but it seems like even if I would feel better afterwards, it would still be there.
COUNSELOR: You mean you stop yourself from crying?
CLIENT: I always come back. You may as well get used to it.
COUNSELOR: And there is no way to get rid of it - crying doesn't help? There is really no way to get it out of your system and that is part of the whole process? (66:06)
CLIENT: Because whenever you get it out, it is always replaced immediately.
COUNSELOR: At least there is only, like, so much of it, you know. Like it just overflows. And in running a little bit off, there is still so much left.
CLIENT: Even if you let all of it out, it comes back.
COUNSELOR: This sounds like a really frightening thing - to feel that. Even getting rid of it, there is always more and it always comes back.
END TRANSCRIPT
