TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Good morning.
THERAPIST: Good morning. 
CLIENT: I'm really tired today. I slept like 11 hours yesterday and I'm really tired. 
THERAPIST: Wow. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know if it's just like being sick or actually working or what but —
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: —I'm tired. I really don't want to go to work after this.
THERAPIST: Do what?
CLIENT: I don't want to go to work after this.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: But oh well. That's fine. Yeah, a couple of people were not very nice to me yesterday. It was not good. (Pause) Not like super rude, because the people who are like really incredibly rude just kind of roll off my back because like it clearly has nothing to do with me. (Pause) Yeah, more or less polite, but in one way or another (pause) it felt to me as though they were treating me like less of a person than a person that they would talk to, which is, you know, hazards of food service. But it did not roll off my back. (Pause) Yeah, so I've just been thinking about that. [0:01:36]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: About like what hurt my feelings and why. Yeah, yeah. Like a guy at—a guy came up and he had a copy of the new David Foster Wallace auto biography. And so I asked him about it and was like yeah, (inaudible at 2.03) like I'm getting really into Wallace and he just like really—he was very polite, but didn't want to talk to me about it (Pause) So...yeah. (Pause) 
Yeah, that is one of the places that I'm sensitive is thinking that people might not think I'm very smart. (Pause) Which, of course, you know, there are maybe 10 million reasons why he didn't want to talk to me about it. That was just the one I thought of. I got that. (chuckles) It just ...
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) That's actually kind of funny, right?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: (Pause) There are 10,000 reasons. There are a million reasons he could have not wanted to talk to me. That was the one I imagined, you know, because I'm not smart enough. I got that. [0:03:18]
CLIENT: Yeah (chuckles).
THERAPIST: I know that's not exactly what you meant but —
CLIENT: But it—yeah —
THERAPIST: —(inaudible at 3.23)
CLIENT: —it's there. (Pause) 
Yeah. And then talking with another employee while I was on break —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —and he was this young guy and just kind of like yeah, I've been here for five months. I don't like it very much. I really like the talking to customers part, but I feel like mopping floors and washing dishes is just not my kind of work (chuckles). [0:04:03]
And I was just like okay then (chuckles). Wow. Don't ever have kids if that's what you think.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
CLIENT: (Pause) I don't know. (Long pause) But... Yeah, probably my dad is very concerned that I would not be a snob when I was growing up and he succeeded in that, I think more or less, which is good, which I'm grateful for. [0:05:06]
(Pause) I think partly because of where we lived that 90 percent of the people I knew were kind of snobs. And you know, 90 percent of the people I knew would say—they would not phrase it this way, but they would think, you know, I am too good to mop floors for a living.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: And (pause) you know, no, nobody is too good to mop floors for a living. (Long pause) Yeah. [0:06:00]
(Long pause) You know, the doing dishes is not nearly as hard as the dealing with people who are not nice to you, for me. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: Well actually, the dealing with people who aren't very nice is pretty easy for me also. It's just like the stamina is hard, like doing this for eight hours —
THERAPIST: That's right.
CLIENT: —of like I—I rang in 60 people in half-an-hour yesterday, over one-half-hour period.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: (Pause) And seeing everybody as a person is I think my job. And that's really fucking hard. Like that part is exhausting. But (pause) I don't know. [0:07:17]
(Pause) Yeah, I'm pretty sad. I don't know why (crying).
THERAPIST: This isn't what you wanted to be. I mean, in a way, it is what you wanted to be doing. But in other ways, it really isn't what you wanted to be doing.
CLIENT: No. 
THERAPIST: (Pause) And maybe that's the thing affecting it because you had a choice back where you—I mean, you had a limited choice.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [0:08:03]
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: But this is certainly not my first choice (crying). Yeah. (Pause) Which doesn't mean that I don't want to do it very well.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: (Long pause) We got the apartment.
THERAPIST: Oh, good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great.
CLIENT: So that's nice.
THERAPIST: That's sure great.
CLIENT: Yeah, we sign the lease tomorrow night and —
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: —move in on the 1st. 
THERAPIST: You going to have a party?
CLIENT: Huh-uh. Now, I just have to find somebody to take over my lease, which I'm banking on being easier than finding apartments.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But we'll see. (inaudible to 9.20) finding the apartment work so —
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: —(inaudible to 9.24) he's been taking real good care of me. (Pause) He's been doing most of the cooking and, you know, like yesterday, I just—I got home and I just didn't want to talk. (inaudible to 9.37) it's like, you know, I've been talking all day. (Pause) I just—yeah, so we had dinner and watched a little TV and I went to bed at 9:00 and got up at 9:00. (Pause) But, yeah. 
It's just very weird working for a company that is—(pause) whose business model is centered around like personal connection. (Pause) They—it's like if I—(pause) you know, it's centered around the idea that like I take care of people, you know. 
People come like—people become regulars of the coffee shops because they want like a companionship that's not intimacy. They want somebody to kind of take care of them in a small way. And (pause) that that dynamic that I think is really valuable and really important and I really like to be able to do that for people and that, you know, gives my life meaning in some ways. [0:11:22]
But that's how they make their money. (Pause) I don't know. You know, I—in some ways, there's a parallel to therapy, but I'm not the one making the money (chuckles). Which makes it seems quite a bit more evil to me. 
THERAPIST: I mean, I don't know which one, the coffee shop you mean (chuckles)?
CLIENT: Yeah (chuckles).
THERAPIST: Okay (chuckles).
CLIENT: No, not you. Yeah, I thought I'd just spring that on you at this point. No, it's... [0:12:16] 
(Long pause) I don't know—so I—I don't know. (Pause) But at the same time, this coffee shop is much better at that model of—(pause) it's much better at creating that kind of companionship and kind of like in training they want us to take care of people than most independent coffee shops, because they've thought about it more basically.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: Than most independent coffee shops I work for—or I've worked for —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —or I've seen. You know, like the one across the street has like—usually you should definitely go to that one —
THERAPIST: I love it.
CLIENT: I know. I know. It's so good.
THERAPIST: There used to be pretty good.
CLIENT: I know and it was so quaint and you could go upstairs and like —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —sit in the little (inaudible to 13.09) rooms is —
THERAPIST: Yeah. I go to the other one.
CLIENT: —amazing. Yeah. They've got like incredible —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —incredible food, incredible coffee, incredible tea and they're just dicks. Like they're not nice to you.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) [0:13:25]
CLIENT: I know. Maybe they're nice to you, but they are not nice to me.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) 
CLIENT: You know, and they don't have any outlets because they don't want people staying there because their turnover is so—like at—
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —their—their new location, there are no outlets at all.
THERAPIST: I've never actually been to that one.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: I've been —
CLIENT: It's nice. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's—it's actually—it's really nice, but—(pause). So it's like—I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I applied to work at that one before I applied to work at this coffee shop. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: I would rather work there, but they didn't hire me. (Long pause) I—it's problematic for me that I find it so easy to disappear for people or to take care of people when they're not very nice to me and they just kind of absorb that and not—and not give it back. [0:14:41] 
(Long pause) You know, I was trying to—I was talking with James when we got up this morning and he goes like but that's—that's what customer service is. Like what is that problematic? And I talked around it for a little bit and it—I think it's problematic because I can't turn it off because like that's what I do with —
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: —everybody. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: And in the same way that you get in a coffee shop is companionship without intimacy—(whispers) I know—I feel like that kind of —(pause) that kind of just absorbing—absorbing it when other people don't treat me well and not responding like that precludes intimacy in some ways. (Pause) But I don't know how to turn it off (crying). [0:15:55]
(Long pause) And then I worry that if I get better, you know, as a person, I will not be any good at my job anymore (crying).
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: Part of the—part of (inaudible at 16.44) and part of the point are to discourage intimacy. 
CLIENT: Hmm... (Pause) I think it depends on what you mean by intimacy. I think you're probably right. But it's not ever what I would think to myself that I was doing. Yeah. (Pause) I mean, as I see it, I really want to be close to people. I really, really want it. [0:17:32]
(Long pause) But (pause) yeah, you know, it's scary for people to be close to me. (Long pause) You know, if people know that they can hurt me, then they'll leave me. (Pause) Seems to be that I operate (chuckles).
THERAPIST: Oh. If people know that they can hurt you, they'll leave you?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) I—I—(pause) That makes a lot of sense now than it did when I said (chuckles). 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: Swivel? I didn't know they swivel (chuckles).
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) 
CLIENT: (Chuckles) (Pause) I don't know. You know, it's hard for me to think that people actually want to be close to me. (Pause) I think—it seems much more likely that they want to be close to the best kind of—the best face of me. (Pause) Which is pretty good, which is also me, but yeah. [0:19:47]
(Long pause) Yeah (crying). 
(Long pause) I don't know what to say about that. What's the answer? It's fairly typical.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: (Long pause) Yeah. I don't remember where I was—where I read this, but it was—it was a—kind of a description of a character who had had like a really hard life and it started by saying like her life was in no way unique except that it was her life. [0:21:24]
(Long pause)
THERAPIST: You're seem to be having a little trouble knowing what to say.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
(Long pause) Yeah. I'm kind of stuck I guess. 
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you need to say something?
CLIENT: No (crying). It's—it's more of like all of the things that I'm thinking about don't seem to be quite complete enough for me to say them. 
THERAPIST: Sort of like half thoughts or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. But not a—but not the same thing as like pre-verbal thoughts. More like (pause) ideas that are complex that ordinarily I would just start talking and work through them. But it don't—it—it doesn't seem to work that way sometimes. Yeah. [0:23:26]
(Long pause) 
THERAPIST: Is this (inaudible at 23.53) because you've also known you're headed to work after?
CLIENT: Maybe. I haven't really thought about that, but I have like an hour.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 24.07) or anything. (chuckles) Yeah, but that's—(pause) I don't know. You know, maybe it's more difficult because I actually just talking with James about some of this. But (pause) I don't know. Part of it is that I'm—it's like a feel very—I'm tired and sad, but those don't really seem to have to do with the things that I'm thinking about or I'm concerned about [0:25:07]
So I'm just like hopping back and forth in my life or everything I'm talking about is important and true, but doesn't seem to be quite the most relevant thing, but I don't—how —
THERAPIST: Tell me about why you're tired and sad.
CLIENT: Well, there's not really much to say other than I'm tired and I'm sad (crying). Yeah. (Pause) And I don't know why.
THERAPIST: What kind of sad it is?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 25.51)
THERAPIST: You're wanting to die sad? Is it —
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: —down about things in your life sad? Is it feeling a sense of loss or —
CLIENT: It's kind of—(pause) I'm just like—I'm just sad in my bones. It doesn't seem to have anything it's connected to me or my situation or what's going on right now (crying).
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: (Whispers) I'm just sad today. (Pause) Yeah. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: Does it remind you of anything or seem like anything?
CLIENT: (Long pause) Yeah. It's a kind of the world does not make sense sad. But I'm not actually thinking the world does not make sense. It's more the same kind of sadness (inaudible at 27.32) Yeah.
(Long pause) You know, when I'm—when I'm this kind of sad, it—it feels like—(pause) it feels like the—(pause) there's some inevitability about it, like it was all going to be like that. It was always, you know—I always get back here (crying). 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 28.18) it was very fundamental.
CLIENT: Maybe. I'm sorry (blowing nose).
THERAPIST: I know. You're sick. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Ick. I wash my hands a lot at work, like a lot lot. It's (pause) but the problem is that when I—and then when I talk about it, I don't have words for it so I kind of reach for the closest words. But sometimes they're not the right ones, but then I persuade myself into feeling that way. And so there's—it's like I'm not telling the truth, but I'm not—and I'm not where—yeah. 
It's like I made a map that's all wrong. [0:29:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah. This in a general way makes some sense to me. It doesn't seem so far fetched.
CLIENT: That's good. 
THERAPIST: (Pause) If you feel really sad. I think you've—I think you feel it pretty deeply and (pause) it's sort of blah from your more usual like (inaudible at 30.29) in the world
CLIENT: Yeah. One of the problems that I'm running into is that the patterns of thinking that I know aren't good for me, I try to cut off. And then I beat myself for thinking that way. And then it just turns into this cycle. You know, so... [0:31:07]
An example, but maybe not the biggest example —
THERAPIST: Sure. Tell me.
CLIENT: Well, of course people aren't very nice to me. That makes sense.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: That I—(chuckles) like no. That's not the way it works. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: You shouldn't be thinking that way. It's not good for you. And—but then I just try not to think that way. And then I'm just more and more distant from—(pause) from myself. Yeah. Yeah. Or I do not deserve (inaudible at 31.57) to have people love me (crying). It doesn't go away just because I recognize that it's not true.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: And then it's kind of like—I—I feel like I have to police everything even more (crying and blowing nose). 
THERAPIST: And for whose sake do you have to do that right? Is that like mine or James's or —
CLIENT: I mean, partially yours and partially James's and part—partly mine, partly some kind of abstract justice or, you know, the fealty to truth I guess. [0:33:20] 
(Long pause) Maybe I'm just so tired being I haven't been sleeping very well. Just a bad cold and I'm sure it keeps me up. 
(Long pause) 
THERAPIST: I think what you (pause) really having some trouble with or maybe kind of stuck on is (pause) not (inaudible at 35.25) but more unconsciously being, you know, a little bit in kind of customer service mode and (pause) a little bit inhibited around how upset you are and the way things are so hard. 
I mean, I think, you know, talking about feeling so sad, but not having the words or association or kind of laying out there the way that knowing some bad things you think about are—or knowing some of the bad things you know about yourself kind of makes things worse because then you have to police that. 
So in addition to thinking those things, then you're thinking you shouldn't be thinking those things and feeling bad about that. It's another burden as kind of an example of like (pause) I think you're sort of struggling a bit to put out there how shitty you are feeling —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —in a way that it's hard to do, because it isn't about taking care of me at all. 
CLIENT: Um... (pause) I don't know. (Pause) I'll have to think about that. (Long pause) I don't know if it's because (inaudible at 38.04) I don't know. A lot of the time I'm—I feel like—a lot of the time I feel like I'm just making all this shit up.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: I think I'm really fine and I should just get over it. I'm like oh, I'm better now. I haven't felt bad for a whole six hours (chuckles). 
THERAPIST: Conclusive. 
CLIENT: (Chuckles) (Long pause) It's really nice that James's taking care of me and it's also very hard. [0:39:11]
(Long pause) I don't know. Like I don't—I—I don't conscious feel like I need to take care of you. But taking care of people does seem to be kind of the way I work or the—my default. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: You know, I—you say that and I think that sounds plausible, but it doesn't—there's no like no internal recognition. 
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. Yeah.
CLIENT: So... 
(Long pause) 
THERAPIST: And (pause) my impression is that's a problem if—
CLIENT: Yeah (chuckles). I'm like why? I don't know what to do now (crying).
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: You know, I—if I thought you were wrong, I would probably tell you, but... (pause) 
THERAPIST: Well, I guess (inaudible at 42.05) you really don't know.
CLIENT: No. (Pause) That makes me anxious. 
THERAPIST: Think that makes you anxious?
CLIENT: Yeah (chuckles). And that I—if I weren't so tired and sad, it would probably make me more anxious.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
CLIENT: And I kind of don't have very much room for it.
THERAPIST: Huh-uh. 
(Long pause)
THERAPIST: Well, the most relevant thing there seems that like it isn't very helpful. I think that we can say pretty clearly. To me, right, maybe at some point it will be helpful, but not now. 
CLIENT: (Pause) No. (Pause) No, I don't think it's that. (Pause) Helpful is hard to define slash there's not much that's very helpful (chuckles).
THERAPIST: (Chuckles). 
CLIENT: (Chuckles). 
THERAPIST: I'm not sure I was entirely wrong about you being interested in being careful with me. 
CLIENT: Damn it (chuckles).
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) 
CLIENT: Yeah, I can't turn it off (crying).
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know that I'm not (inaudible at 44.05) particularly helpful to you like that's made you feel better or (inaudible at 44.13) at some point. 
CLIENT: You mean today or —
THERAPIST: Today. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 44.24) ever.
CLIENT: Yeah (chuckles), in general.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 44.26) today.
CLIENT: (Blowing nose) sorry. No, I mean—being here is helpful in kind of a momentum sense. But it—yeah. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 44.45)
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 44.48) feel better (inaudible).
END TRANSCRIPT
