<b>INTEGRATIVE THERAPY<br />
with<br />
Jeffrey Kottler</b>
<b>Introduction</b>
Jeffrey Kottler, Ph.D. is Chair of the Counseling Program at California State University, Fullerton. He is well known for his innovative work in psychotherapy, group therapy and supervision. He is the author of over 40 books including On Being A Therapist, and The Last Victim which have become international bestsellers. He is also the author of texts such as Nuts and Bolts of Helping, Learning Group Leadership, and Theories in Counseling and Psychotherapy, all published by Allyn &amp; Bacon. At the core of Kottler's work is his strong emphasis on the human dimensions of helping including the power of the relationship and modeling influences in the clinician's personality and interpersonal style.
In this session, Dr. Kottler clearly practices what he preaches, demonstrating a high degree of interpersonal authenticity as well as pragmatic flexibility. His approach demonstrates the power of human qualities and the usefulness of operating according to what clients need at any moment in time. He shows integrative therapy in action, but with a uniquely personal flavor that inspires practitioners to be more creative, flexible and synthesizing in their work.
	
This transcript is an initial therapy session with Jeffrey Kottler and the client in which Kottler and the client discuss her problems with relationships. (43 minutes).
<b>Transcript</b>
TH1: (2-1) We have about ah, 45 minutes together, and um what I know so far is that you have been in counseling for a little while.  Maybe it would be helpful to start, if you'd fill me in on what you've been talking to your counselor about, and what you have been doing so far.
CL1: (2-2) Um, let's see, ah, well when I first came I was um, depressed about a relationship, and how to deal with this relationship I was having with this person, and she then I started well, was helping me to think more positive and started to feel better.  And um, also, I was having problems with organizing different things going on in my life.  I had a lot of things, I had the classes, and the children, and ah, you know, my work.  And I was trying to ah, spread things out cuz I was getting really stressed out.
TH2: Juggling all these things at the same time.
CL2: Mmm.
TH3: Ok.
CL3: So, she was helping with stress.  And then I got back with the person, in the relationship I was in, and then they were kinda verbally abusing me.  And so I was dealing with that, and she was trying to help me every time the person would hurt me and upset me.  You know, trying to work on how to build myself back up.  And then just recently we finally broke up.  And then I got kinda sad again, you know.  And, um, so, that's where I am at now, and I am trying to get over the break up.
TH4: (2-3) Ok, so, Harriet you're um, what brought you to therapy originally was this relationship that was always for some time up and down, and up and down.
CL4: Yes.
TH5: But you also said that you have been juggling a number of different things.
CL5: Yes.
TH6: We had talked briefly about your three children.
CL6: Uh huh.
TH7: And um they'll be going away again, going back to school, leaving you alone.  Um, and then you've been under a lot of stress.
CL7: Yes.
TH8: Related to work.
CL8: Yes.
TH9: And I understand you're also going through a job change, or job transition where you're going to be doing something completely new.
CL9: Yes.
TH10:  (2-4) Um, and with the therapist that you've been seeing, what have you done with her that's been especially helpful to you so far.
CL10:  Um, well, let's see, um well she did give me some affirmations and that helped, and she told me about positive thinking, and I was working on that because I tend to um, I think sometime look at the darker side of things.  And, um, she had me make a list of all the things I have to do, and with this list ah, I started doing some of the things and she would ah, pat me on the back, and you know, so that made me feel better like I was getting through.
TH11: Giving you a lot of support.
CL11: Yes.
TH12: Because that's something that has been in short supply for you with all the stuff you've been going through lately.
CL12: Yeah.  She was very supportive, and um I guess a lot of times I would just vent, and she would listen.  And I would feel better after I left, you know.  Because I guess I would get a lot of this out, you know, things that were bothering me, and um...
TH13: Having someone you could talk to, someone you could trust, somebody who would listen to you.  So, that really helped.
CL13: Yeah, because I didn't have much support in my life at this time, ah, that time.
TH14: Ok.  What else did she do that was especially helpful?
CL14: (2-5) Um.  Well, she was trying to help me get away from the um...
TH15: This destructive relationship.
CL15: Yeah.  And ah, but I was having a very hard time with that because I would say things, and when I got home I would forget, you know.  And like when she pointed out that um, she pointed out that this person was similar to my family background, and she you know, we made a chart and she showed me that ah, the qualities that he had, and the qualities that my family had and my ex-husband had were similar.  And, then we made a chart on what I really wanted, and she was saying that these are not the same things, you know, what I want, and what he is, were different.  But, I kinda feel like I was kinda maybe ah, addicted or something to him, because I just...
TH16: Couldn't let go.
CL16: Couldn't let go.
TH17: Yeah.  That your brain would tell you, you know, this is the right thing to do, but there was something in your heart that kept you connected to him.  Just not ready to end that relationship.
CL17: Yeah.
TH18: (2-6) And you said something interesting, you said that um, your counselor would tell you these things, but then you would go home and you would forget.
CL18: Yeah.  I would forget.
TH19: Which means that it must not really have sunk in, or you must not have been utterly sure that, that's something that you wanted to do.  Part of you wanted to let go of the relationship, but part of you wanted to hang onto it.  There, there must have been some things about the relationship that you valued and appreciated.
CL19: Yeah.  He was, well, he was very helpful, and he um, I always felt that, I don't know, I had this thing, I thought he was the one.
TH20: Uh-huh.
CL20: You know.  And, um I thought we got along very well, and we talked very well, and he was, um, you know, intelligent.  And um, you know, I thought, you know this was, I thought this was going to be the one for me, you know.
TH21: (2-7) Even when there was a lot of evidence to indicate that um, the other things that he was doing weren't, weren't real good for you at all, and you alluded to the fact that, um, he was kind of beating you down.  Um, you weren't feeling good about yourself, and um, that's one of the things your counselor was helping you with was to look more clearly, not only at the good things about the relationship, but the things that you were ignoring as well.
CL21: Yes.
TH22: So, in this, the counseling that you have been so far, what are some of the things that haven't been working very well, or haven't been all that helpful to you.
CL22: Um, well, when I, when we broke up the second time, it wasn't helpful to me, because I also asked, I didn't know what to do, I was very distraught when I came in, and she wouldn't, she seemed like she didn't want to help me, she just said well you have to make up your own mind and I felt really bad.
TH23: (2-8) So, you were frustrated with her because you wanted some direction from her that she wasn't willing to give, because she didn't think that that was good for you, even though that's what you thought you wanted.
CL23: Right.  Cuz I felt that I was so low that I couldn't get direction.  And then she even told me how I looked, you know, and that kind of bothered me.  She says you look like a little, lonely child, sitting in the corner, and that just made me feel worse.  And I just, you know, I cried cuz I felt like, I felt like she was beating me up.  
TH24: So, sometimes she would confront you with some things that you didn't necessarily feel ready to look at, even if she was right, or even if that was true that you didn't feel like that's something you wanted to hear right then.
CL24: Right.  Yes. Yes.  Because I um, it just made me feel worse.  It made me feel like maybe I should just go and hide somewhere from looking like this.  If I'm looking like someone lost, you know, a lost little kid, maybe I should hide rather than come out in the world.
TH25: Yeah.  That's what you needed to do right then and there, and you weren't ready to come out.
CL25: Right.
TH26: (2-9) Harriet, what, what I am doing with this initial question, or initial questions, is um in that you are already seeing a counselor, whatever we do together in the time we have, I don't want to mess with that.  I mean I want to support the work you're already doing, because we just have this one meeting together.
CL26: Ok.
TH27: So it's real helpful for me to know what it is that you have been doing that's been working pretty well, and what you've been doing that hasn't been working that well.  Of all the areas that you mentioned that you've been working on, um related to issues of letting go of your children, and what that means is living alone again.  
CL27: Uh-huh.
TH28: Especially now that this relationship has ended.  So now in some ways its, you gotta be feeling even more alone than you have before.
CL28: Uh-huh.
TH29: Um dealing with the job transition and all the stress that that brings, um and, and some of the other issues that you raised.  What would be most useful for us to talk about in the time that we have?
CL29: (2-10) Um, um the letting go, and a dealing with, you know, the children leaving, you know, because I'll be there by myself, and I just wonder how I'm going to deal with that.
TH30: And that is coming up in a matter of weeks.
TH30: Yeah.
TH31: When they go back to school.
CL31: Yeah, next week.
TH32: Yeah.
CL32: And, and especially the letting go of this person because they told me, today I talked to him, and they said that they have moved on, but I think that kinda helped a little bit that they told me that they moved on.
TH33: When you say "they," in particular, which daughter are you speaking of?
CL33: I mean, I mean the man.
TH34: Oh, the man, ok.  So that's when you are talking about letting go, um you are referring not just letting go of your children but also letting go of this relationship that so recently ended.
CL34: Right.  Yes.
TH35: Ok.  Although you're saying that it's over um, there's a part of you that is not really sure that...
CL35: (2-11) Well, I still don't want to let go.  I wasn't ready to let go.  He just, he just decided that he didn't want to see me anymore, and he told me he hated me, and that really hurt.  You know, and he said that um, you know, that um, you know, he said I couldn't handle being with him because we wanted different things.  He had just got out of a divorce, and he wasn't ready for a relationship, and I've been divorced for a number of years, and I was ready for, you know, a committed relationship.
Th36: So this was not your choice to end this relationship at this time.
CL36: No.
TH37: And, perhaps you could tell me a bit more about how this whole thing happened, and what do you want to call him.
CL37:  Um.
TH38: What's his first name or what first name do you want to call him.
CL38: Um.  Sylvester.
TH39: Sylvester.  Ok. Um.
CL39: Um, now what did you say again?
TH40: What would be helpful for me to know about the way this relationship so recently ended, and what you have been dealing with since then related to your relationship with Sylvester.
CL40: (2-12) Um.  Well, it seemed like he just always ah, pushed me away, and he would use um, he would say a lot of mean things to push me away.  And, um I don't know, I just , you know, I wanted it to work, and, and I thought a lot of times the things that he was saying was because he just didn't know any better, and I tried to overlook.
TH41: And make excuses for him.
CL41: Make excuses for him, yeah.  And um, ah, cuz he would say some, you know, I think kinda cruel things, you know.  And then, you know, like um, we hadn't been seeing each other for weeks and then when he said that I said does this mean that we broke up, and he says well we never went together, we were just, I was just dating you, I was just seeing you because you didn't have a boyfriend.  You know, like as if he was doing me a favor.
Th42: (2-13) Yes.  And yet although you know in many ways this relationship wasn't good for you, you are still mourning the loss because you did, and perhaps still do, care so deeply for him. 
CL42: Yes.  Yeah, and I don't know why I care so deeply for someone who, you know, could be so cruel.
TH43: And that's the part that's been so confusing and frustrating, that with your counselor, once you're in session with her, you talk about how all um, the reasons why this wasn't good for you.  And you think you understood while you were there, and then as you said, you would go home and you would forget.  That is whatever you thought was important then, all of the sudden didn't seem so important once you were with him.
CL43: Yes.
TH44: Its like whatever was in your head at the time just didn't seem that important anymore.  
CL44: Yes.
TH45: It's not so much that you forgot, it's that there are two really, really important voices that are, that are speaking inside you at the same time.  One that is saying, Harriet, get the hell out of that relationship, it's not good for you, and the other one that is saying, wait I love him, I care for him, I've invested a lot in this relationship.
CL45: Yes.
TH46: And you've been kinda going back and forth and back and forth.
CL46: (2-14) And that's been also making me very tired because I think about it constantly.  You know, I think about it morning and night, and all during the night when I'm trying to sleep.  I've been really obsessed about it, and I'm trying to stop that, you know, because I noticed that makes me feel worse.
TH47: What would it be like for you, or what would happen if you didn't have this problem anymore.  What if, all of the sudden, um you would wake up tomorrow, let's say this session was so effective that when you walk out of the door here today, and you drive home, it's like there's this magical cure and you don't think about him anymore, he's just history.  And you are able to move on with the rest of your life.  What would that be like for you?
CL47: Um.  It would probably be very relaxing.  It would probably be, feel better.  I think it would feel much better.
TH48: (2-15) Is some ways, but what about in some other ways that wouldn't be so attractive or so good.
CL48: Well, the loneliness.  You know, cuz now I kinda feel like I'm all alone in the world, you know. Like, like, I feel like almost like he's throwing me out in the world by myself now.
TH49: (2-16) So now as long as you stay obsessed with him, as you said, as long as you keep thinking about him, as long as you stay stuck with him, its like you still have a part of him with you, and you're not quite so alone.  And that if you really did walk out the door today not thinking about him anymore, with Sylvester gone, not just out of your life, but out of your head and your heart, you would have to face how lonely you really feel, and how alone you really feel.
CL49: Yes.
TH50: So there's a part of you that is really reluctant to, to let that go, and to let him go.
CL50: Yes.  I guess so.  Yeah.
TH51: What else would be different about your life if he was not only occupying a, your time, but he didn't occupy your head anymore, and you never thought about him or gave him a second thought.  What else would be different?
CL51: Um.  I might, could um, set some goals and do, do more because I've been very slowed down lately.  I don't feel like doing too much, you know.
TH52: So, in some ways he's a good excuse to not do some things that you might have to do if you made yourself more available.
CL52: Yeah.  I guess so.  I don't know.  I'm not sure.
TH53: Yeah.  I know.  You nodded your head and said you guess so, but it, it seems like that doesn't really fit for you, or that you're not sure about that.
CL53: Yeah.
TH54: What I was wondering Harriet, is just that as long as you remain stuck in that relationship, even though it is over, you don't exactly make yourself available for another kind of relationship at some time in the future, and I'm not just talking about a romantic relationship, I'm talking about intimacy on any level.
CL54: Yeah.
TH55: (2-17) Not just with a lover, but with a friend.  Ah we, you're talking about how alone you feel, and in some ways you're, you're insulating yourself for keeping yourself stuck, so that you don't reach out to, to other people.  And so what I was um bringing up is the idea that um Sylvester is in some ways keeping you from reaching out to other people.
CL55: Okay, I guess so.
TH56: Again you're not, not for sure about that.
CL56: Um.  Do you mean at the thought of him.
TH57: Yeah.
CL57: Yeah.
TH58: As long as you stay obsessed, as long as you think about him, then you really don't have to go on with the rest of your life.  And there are some really exciting things about your life that seems to be taking off right now.
CL58: Yeah.
TH59: Um, from some things that you said when we were chatting earlier, you know, you've seemed to have done some marvelous things in terms of launching your children out into the world.
CL59: Yeah.
TH60: (2-18) That they're so independent that they're communicating to you that they don't even need you anymore.
CL60: Yes.  Yeah.  I raised them by myself after my ah, husband left, and so everybody says that I did a very good job. 
TH61: What do you think?
CL61: (2-19) Um.  They are, they're good kids.  There are some areas um, that I'm, you know, you know, that you know that they have a few little problems with, you know.  But they are trying to better themselves and get their careers together, and they are serious about school, and you know from what I hear about other kids nowadays, you know, that's really a good thing.  So, and my son told me the other day I did a very good job as his mother, so that made me feel good.
TH62: So, your children most of the time, or some of the time, seem to believe that you are a pretty ok mother.
CL62: Uh-huh.
TH63: And you've reported that other people who've observed you and observed the way that you have parented, and the way you've worked with them, also think you've done a really good job.
CL63: Yes.
TH64: Um, but you seem reluctant to kinda pat yourself on the back yourself.  To admit, yeah, I did a good job.
CL64: Yeah.  Well, I guess that for some reason motherhood didn't seem real important to me, you know, it was just something I had to do and I did it.  I guess that's not a good attitude, but you know.
TH65: Well, as you said, being stuck in a situation where you really didn't have a choice, that you were the only parent that was around to raise them.
CL65: Uh-huh.
TH66: Um, you never had the luxury of thinking about what you wanted to do.
CL66: That's true.
TH67: And yet, it seems interesting to me that in your work, and your career, ah, you finally seem to be at a point that you're asking yourself what you want to do, that you are not all together and haven't been satisfied with what you've been doing, and that's a part of your life that you are really taking charge of, and really wanting to go in a completely new direction.
CL67: Uh-huh. Yes, yeah I have.
TH68: You, you just smiled as you said that, like...
CL68: Cuz I'm really happy about the job change.
TH69: (2-20) Yeah, and what did it take for you to make that happen.
CL69: Um, I had to do a lot of studying, and the courses, and um, and um I had put I had in for the job maybe a year or so ago and I was on the waiting list, and she called me and told me she had an opening, and was I still interested.  And then I um, told them yes, and then she told me she'd send me the material.  I did the studying.  I looked at the videos, and um took the course, and passed the course.  So I did very well.  I, I was really proud of myself.
TH70: Yes.
CL70: I think out of 50 questions I missed 2.  
TH71: Wow.
CL71: So, I was really proud of myself.
TH72: Yeah.
CL72: Yeah.
TH73: (2-21) So, what would it take for you to take the same kind of initiative, and the same kind of drive, and the same kind of motivation that helped you move on in that part of your life?  What would it take for you to move on in your relationship with Sylvester?
CL73: I don't know.  I guess to look for another man.  (Laughing)
TH74: You said that like even you know that's not the right answer.  Don't look for another man.  (Laughing)
CL74: (Laughing) I don't know.
TH75: Wrong (laughing).  I'm not supposed to say that either.  Ok.  Let's start over.
CL75: Ok.  Um, I don't know.
TH76: (2-22) Yeah.  Part of you, it sounds like, isn't really ready to let go of Sylvester just yet, and um you know, your counselor might be telling you that's a good thing that you should do, and maybe some of your friends are telling you, "why don't you get rid of this loser and move on."  But, ah, people can say that to you until they're blue and you're not going to make that happen until you're ready, until you're ready to let go and move on.  And this didn't happen according to your schedule.  Sylvester is the one who decided to end this thing.
CL76: Uh-huh.
TH77: And uh, I mean that is annoying on top of everything else, that it's just another way that it felt like you were being controlled by this man who's not good for you.
CL77: Yeah.
TH78: And yet, he could call you today and say, "honey I, I changed my mind, and um you know you're not so bad after all, for a loser, and um, maybe you wanna come back and be with me again.  I'll consent and I'll let you back into my life in a limited way."
CL78: Yeah.  Yeah.  That's sad, because I really want more. 
TH79: You'd like to be the kind of woman that could say, thanks but no thanks.  I need and deserve something far more in my life.
CL79: Yes. 
TH80: But you're not quite there yet.
 
CL80: (2-23) No.  So how can I get there?
TH81: Yeah.  That's, that is the question, in terms of the ongoing work that you'll do with your counselor when our session ends.  What would it take for you to get to the next step?  Not to get it all at once, but to just go to the next step, where if Sylvester did call, or if some time in your life you find yourself involved in another relationship with somebody, that's not giving you what you deserve and what you want.  What would it take for you to not only realize that when you're talking to somebody, but to actually remember it when it really counts?
CL81: (2-24) I, I really don't know.  I really don't know.  Because right now I just feel so low.
TH82: I believe you.  Yeah.
CL82: So I really don't know.
TH83: And by feeling so low, it doesn't feel like you have the energy or the drive to do what it would take, at least in that part of your life, even though you have these other parts of your lifes, parts of life right now that you are very much in control of.
CL83: Uh-huh.
TH84: This is just one segment that's a bit more out of control than you'd prefer.
CL84: Yes. Yeah.  I think so.  I've notice that everything else seems to be going, you know, well.  You know.  I picked classes here, my classes.
TH85: So in many ways in your life, you are bettering yourself.  There's just this one way, and maybe a few other ways we haven't talked about yet, that these are just some areas that you need to strengthen.
CL85: Right.
TH86: I have a guess or a hunch that this isn't the first time in your life that you've experienced a relationship similar to what you have had with Sylvester, what you still have with Sylvester in your, in your head.
CL86: (2-25) Yeah, that's true.  Because I, it seems like, and somebody was telling me I make poor choices.
TH87: So how is this familiar to you?
CL87: Um.  Well, um, I was in a relationship with a, a drug addict, and it was bad like this. And um but I think I was feeling even worse because I just gave up.  I just went to bed and I got into a very deep depression, and I think I stayed away from relationships for at least three years or so.  And um, and then the one before Sylvester, he was very angry, so I don't know.  I just, I just pick the wrong people. Um, Like I say, a lot of times it's from your family, you know.  My father was very emotionally distant.
TH88: Yes.
CL88: (2-26) And um, I think my mother was um not really very helpful either.
TH89: So there's been this ongoing pattern in your life of other Sylvesters.
CL89: Yeah.
TH90: And um, one of the things that scares me just thinking about it is that, once Sylvester is really gone, what's going to stop you from picking another one just like him.
CL90: Well I thought I was, I was just gonna, I was gonna try to be more careful, and um you know, take, take things slower, you know.  I was thinking that might help.  Like kinda take things a little slower and not get, get involved with the person until I really knew who they were.
TH91: Uh-huh.  It sounds like that's the kind of decision that you'd make that makes perfect sense right here, one of those things that you'd say, but might be one of those things that you could easily forget.
CL91: (2-27) Well, I, I really think this has been a lesson for me because I have met some people, and um, right away I see different things, like red flags, and I'll dismiss it right away.
TH92: Hum.  So this is a turning point for you, and interesting, um, that you may in fact be holding on to Sylvester is away to slow things down so you don't get immediately involved in another relationship.
CL92: Oh.  I don't know.  You think so.
TH93: (2-28) I'm just suggesting that as a possibility, you know, I'm, I'm kind of asking myself the question, why would someone um, as bright, and as perceptive as you are, and as capable as you are, and as competent as you are in so many other areas of your life, who seems to have perfect understanding of this ongoing pattern of picking losers, to get involved with, why would you find yourself in a series of successive relationships with these guys that aren't very good for you.  Um, and why would you be holding onto Sylvester, knowing that it's over, and even if it wasn't over, he's not good for you.  So I don't have an answer, but I think it's a fascinating question why you might be holding on to this.
CL93: Well, I was thinking, and I know they say, you know, that maybe he would change, and I, I, I tend to be a rescuer, I believe, and I, I just thought that maybe in time...
TH94: You could fix him.
CL94: Yes.
TH95: Yeah.
CL95: Yeah.
TH96: And how has that worked with your other projects that you've, these guys that you've tried to fix.
CL96: Um, well the drug addict did stop using, but um because I prayed, I prayed for him a lot, and he finally did stop yeah, using.  And um.
TH97: (2-29) So in some ways you felt like you have been helpful to some of these people.
CL97: I guess through prayer.
TH98: Yeah.
CL98: So um, but other than that, um, it hasn't worked.  And my son was telling me that my ex, for years tried to change him, you know.  So you know, so I guess it doesn't work.  And as it is it's a waste of my energy.  So.
TH99: (2-30) Well, it might work in some unintended ways, but it certainly doesn't work if you're goal is truly to be involved in ah, in a relationship with someone who can give you what you can give him, or if your goal is to be independent in such a way that you don't need a man in order for you to be happy That's just something that would make your life better but it isn't necessary, and one of the things that you eluded to a, a couple of different times is the real scare that you're feeling right now at the prospect of not only losing Sylvester, but losing your children, and that you're going to be living alone, and um, that is something that is very frightening for you.
CL99: Yes.
TH100: And if you're not very, very careful you could make a choice or a decision to a, pick somebody else who isn't necessarily good for you, for the sake of having a companion, even if it is somebody that doesn't treat you very well.
CL100: Yeah.  So um, what do I do about that.  I just have to be very careful, huh.
TH101: (2-31) This is um one of those moments right now that you warned me about, where you said that one of the things that you didn't like so much about your counselor is when you were struggling, and when you were confused, like you are right now, you wanted some direction and some structure.  You didn't want the counselor to give you some evasive response and say it's up to you, or you know, you know the answers, and you um... So I'm really sensing that right now that, first of all you think I know what you should do, and that if I knew I would, I would tell you.
CL101: Right.
TH102: And um.  I'm really feeling a bit trapped right now because, um and pressured, because I'm thinking gosh I just met you, and how could I possibly, I barely know what's good for me most of the time, and how am I supposed to know what's good for you, but I'm also aware that I don't wanna let you down ah.
CL102: Well when they were gone before, I was, I stayed real busy.  I ran around a lot.   You know, I just stayed out in the street and just ran, ran, ran, ran, ran.  You know.
TH103: To keep yourself occupied and to keep yourself busy.
CL103: Yeah.  Uh-huh.
TH104: So that's one answer that you thought of when I was just jabbering a minute ago.   What are some other things that you know have worked for you in the past.
CL104: (2-32) Um.  Exercise or something like that, do you mean?  Exercise helps. 
TH105: That's an example of...
CL105: An activity.
TH106: Pardon.
CL106: An activity.
TH107: Of an activity or something healthy that you've been doing that's good for you.
CL107: Right.
TH108: Yeah.
CL108: And it helps walking, exercise, aerobics, that type of thing.
TH109: Uh-huh.
CL109: And um, I um, I a, I'm an art major here, and sometimes, the art work has helped me, but lately I don't feel like doing any artwork.
TH110: (2-33) Right.  Well that's when you, I mean, I mean gosh Harriet you're going through the ending of a relationship that's been so important to you.  And you're experiencing a lot of different transitions in your life, and as you said, you've been depressed and a, also pretty stressed out.  Um, so it would make sense that you wouldn't necessarily have a lot of energy for these creative things, even though you know that they're good for you.
CL110: Yes.
TH111: Yeah, what else.
CL111: I read a lot.  So that helps.
TH112: Uh-huh.
CL112: I read and I pray.
TH113: All the things that you mentioned so far are things that you would do alone or could do alone.  Which is fantastic, because it means you're not really dependent on anyone else to be able to accomplish those things.  Everything that you mentioned, doing your artwork, getting more physical exercise, and working out on a regular basis, or reading, you know, bettering yourself in school.  Um, you know, all those are great things, but one of the things that you mentioned is the way that you've isolated yourself.  That you don't have a lot of support right now.
CL113: No.
TH114: What are you going to do about that?
CL114: (2-34) Um.  I have been going to some twelve step meetings.  So I've been doing that, and that helps.  And um...
TH115: Talk about how that helps.
CL115: Um.  Well that helps, because like I hear different things at the meeting that help, and then while I'm there it seems like I'm able to think more clearly about situations. You know, I guess, because I think it's like a spiritual group, and so I start to think, um, more clearly about things, and I see that with this relationship I was, I mean because I kinda blame myself a little bit because maybe I was kinda controlling because I was trying to push him to have this relationship with me.
TH116: So part of the twelve step about letting go...
CL116: Letting go and um...
TH117: Of the things you can't really help...
CL117: Yeah and being powerless over people...
TH118: Yes.
CL118: You know, that I have no control over people, places, things.
TH119: Yes.  And the way your relationship with God helps.
CL119: Right, and putting my life in God's hands.
TH120: Yes.
CL120: (2-35) So, you know.  Yeah that's been helping,  the twelve steps.
TH121: And feeling part of a group of people that are, that's bigger than just yourself where you don't feel so alone.  You hear their stories.  You hear that other people go through things similar to what you've been going through.
CL121: Right, and then I went to one yesterday, and I realized, like you said, it's mostly this one area, where a lot of people had so many areas that they were out of control in.  So, you know, that's good for me in a way because, it's like I said it's only this one area that's really causing me a problem right now.
TH122: So um doing, taking an inventory of that looking at the whole context of your life, not just the one area of your life, that you with Sylvester, that you've been so obsessed about. 
CL122: Uh-huh.
TH123: And by taking inventory, it allows you to hit all the different areas of your life and realize that where as this might not be going so well, there are other areas that are going quite well.
CL123: (2-36) Yeah.  That's true, because I also ah, rollerskate, and have a group of rollerskating friends.
TH124: Oh, okay.
CL124: So that's fun, and they've been very supportive about this situation too.
TH125: And who else has been supportive?
CL125: Um. Well my children don't want to hear it.
TH126: Yeah.  They're sick of it.     
CL126: Yeah.  And um, I think that is about it.
TH127: And that's where your counselor has been helpful, because ah, some of the people in your life don't want to listen to you anymore, talk about this.  And your work with your counselor has been one of the few places where you could go and talk about that, and not have to worry so much that you're going to get cut off, or that someone is going to say, "Oh Mom would you shut up, I'm tired of hearing about that."
CL127: Yeah.  Cuz even my Mother, she jumped all on my, you know she started fussing and stuff.  "Why are you doing..." like that, you know.  So that wasn't very helpful.
TH128: Right, cuz then you have to walk around pretending as if this doesn't matter anymore, and it does.  You do spend a lot of time thinking about it.
CL128: (2-37) So, I do, I stay to myself a lot because, you know, the mood I'm in, I just don't really feel like giving much, and then people also make comments about it, you know, you know.  About how said I look or something sometimes.  So I would just stay in the house and you know, just resting.
TH129: Keeping away from people, isolating yourself.  And then when you're out there in the world, kinda pretending that you feel better than you really do.
CL129: Uh-huh.
TH130: So when you have your next scheduled session with your counselor, what are you going to tell her about this conversation.
CL130: Oh, I don't know.  I might tell her.  I don't know.  I really don't know.  Maybe I'll tell her about what you said about isolating myself, you know.  And you know maybe I should force myself to get out more.
TH131: (2-38) Well, what would it take for you to have a breakthrough with your counselor, and kind of take your work with her until,to the next level.
CL131: I don't know.
TH132: I guess I'm wondering what are some things that you haven't told her yet.  Or what are some things that you haven't shared with her, some things that you haven't done with her that you might to, that would.
CL132: Well I did tell her that I realized with this relationship I had abandonment issues, and I would like to work with that, and also, um I think I'm love addicted cuz I've been reading a lot you know, and I'd like to work with that, you know.  Because I really want love, you know, in my life.  I don't know, maybe it seems like some times I feel maybe its too late for me.  You know.  Being an older person. 
TH133: By love addicted, it would be, much better if the source of love in your life didn't necessarily come, have to come from a man.  And if it did come from a man, it wasn't exclusively from a man, and if, even if it did come from a man that it wasn't somebody that always took from you and didn't give back what you deserve.
CL133: No.
TH134: (2-39) Because that's been the pattern that you described that's occurred so many times.
CL134: Yeah.  That they took from me and didn't give back.
TH135: Yes.
CL135: (2-40) Yes.  So I guess I need to find someone who loves me back, huh.
TH136: Yes.  And maybe even before that to be able to get yourself to a point where you don't need a man in order to find that kind of love.  That there are so many other people around you, or who could be around you, that can provide that kind of love and support that you deserve.  And you obviously have a tremendous amount of love to give to other people.
CL136: Uh-huh.
TH137: It's just been so frustrating for you that it doesn't feel like it's been reciprocated in this one, one dimension or one area.  And in some ways you do sound discouraged about whether you're ever going to be able to enjoy that kind of equal relationship with someone.
CL137: Yeah I do, I'm wondering, I guess because, maybe that's one reason why I'm holding onto Sylvester.  I just feel like, you know...
TH138: Might be the last chance.
CL138: Right.  And sometimes I say well maybe in a few years he will realize what you know, a wonderful person I am, and you know, and um, and how good I am for him.
TH139: And it does seem so sad that there was potential there, but he and you together just weren't able to make that work.
CL139: No.  It seems like he fought it.
TH140: Because in some ways he was really afraid of you, and afraid of that relationship.
CL140: Yeah.
TH141: And did what he could to sabotage it.
CL141: Yes.
TH142: (2-41) Harriet, we only have just a couple minutes left, and I guess what I'm wondering is, um, when you drive home today, and um you're in your car and you're thinking about this conversation, and how it went, and the things that we talked about.  What are you going to think about?  What is going haunt you after this is over.  What are you going to remember, not forget, but remember?
C142: Well, I'll probably remember what you said about him sabotaging the relationship, and about not isolating myself, and maybe having my ah, counselor talk about ways to feel um good about myself being alone.
TH143: Uh-huh.
CL143: I think maybe that's what we should work on.
TH144: Uh-huh.  So you've left with a plan of what you're going to do with your counselor the next time you get together, and some other areas that you might explore.
CL144: Yes.
TH145: What else are you going to do?  The first question I asked you was what you're going to think about, but what are you going to do now based on these things that you realized.
CL145: (2-42) Well, I will continue with my meetings.  Uh, I guess I'm going to keep trying to let him go.  I guess I'll keep trying.
TH146: Boy was that tentative. (Laughing).
CL146: (Laughing).
TH147: But that's the best you can do for right now, or the best that you are ready to do right now.  And the one thing you don't like is people pushing you to do something that you don't feel ready yet.
CL147: Well, what do you suggest I do?
TH148: I think you got a plan and I really support, support that plan, and I um...
CL148: I mean to let him go.  How can I let him go?
TH149: I think you'll let him go when you are ready to let him go, and I don't think you're quite ready yet, and I think you are getting closer and closer and closer.  And I really applaud all the other things that you're doing in your life right now to diversify your life, and to have a lot of other sources of stimulation.
CL149: Uh-huh.
TH150: So that you don't need to hold on to him anymore.  And I think that once you make yourself available in that way, I think you're going to find you're going to attract a whole lot of people in your life, other than men.
CL150: Ok.  I think that sounds good.
TH151: Yeah.  Thanks so much for meeting with me today.
CL151: Ok.  Thank you.
<b>Treatment Plan for This Client</b>
Kottler suggests (TH136) that Harriet might, through counseling, get to a point where she doesn't need a man to find the kind of love she wants. In future sessions, Harriet and her counselor will work on ways that she can feel good about herself and continue to explore ways that she can find new and more satisfying relationships.
<b>To Learn More</b>
BOOKS
Kottler, J. (1993). <u>On Being a Therapist (2nd ed.)</u>, San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1993.
Jeffrey A. Kottler, Thomas L. Sexton (Contributor), and Susan C. Whiston (Contributor). (1994). <u>The Heart of Healing: Relationships in Therapy</u>. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 
Kottler, J. (1995). <u>Growing a Therapist</u>, San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Kottler, J. (Ed.). (1996). <u>Finding Your Way as a Counselor, Alexandria, Va.: American Counseling Association</u>.
Kottler, J. (1999). <u>The Therapist's Workbook: Self-assessment, Self-care, and Self-improvement Exercises for Mental Health Professionals</u>, San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Kottler, J. (2000). <u>Nuts and Bolts of Helping</u>, Boston: Allyn and Bacon.
Kottler, J. (2000). <u>Doing Good: Passion and Commitment for Helping Others</u>, Philadelphia: Accelerated Development.
Kottler, J. (2000) <u>Counseling Skills For Teachers</u>, Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.
Kottler, J. &amp; Brown, R. W. (2000). <u>Introduction to Therapeutic Counseling: Voices From the Field (4th Ed.)</u>, Pacific Grove, CA: Brooks/Cole.
Kottler, J. (2001). <u>Making Changes Last</u>. NY: Brunner/Mazel.
Kottler:, J. (2001).  <u>Learning Group Leadership</u>, Boston:  Allyn &amp; Bacon
Kottler:, J. (2002).  <u>Theories of Counseling</u>, Boston:  Allyn &amp; Bacon
WEBSITE
<a href="http://www.jeffreykottler.com/">http://www.jeffreykottler.com/</a>
