TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


THERAPIST: Session 22-115, interview number seven. February 9, 1971. Client 0222-115, interview number seven, February 9.


PATIENT: Oh God. We can't really have a whole winter of this  -  - .


THERAPIST: I'm afraid we (inaudible).


PATIENT: I started work. This shouldn't tire me out. Man I (inaudible) this  -  - . I just hate to run when I'm dressed for zero weather. It's harder to carry my clothes along than it is to run. Did we have a session last Thursday? [2:33]


THERAPIST: Yes.


PATIENT: Boy that seems like a long time ago. I'm trying to get a job, seems like everything has gone to hell in the last three days. I'm just trying to figure out how to encompass it all. Wow... I've been really feeling miserable.


Even besides the cold. I still haven't gotten a letter from Jessica (ph), and it's been over a month. So after hinting for four or five times, and having her to tell me that the reason she hadn't written was because she didn't have postage. A little bit hoaxy (ph) but (inaudible) piece of material 'cause I'm hard to get a hold of in a month's time.


THERAPIST: Very true.


PATIENT: No, not at all. Well, I wrote her a letter that told her as much. And I thought that was a lot of bull -  - . And I don't know how that's going to turn out... And I'm super in debt. Starting work helps, but it's gonna be next month, I'll get four days pay. Be another two to three weeks before I even get a full check then. So... if I can stay out of jail on bad check charges until then, I suppose I'll make it. Oh, God...


I don't know why, but for some reason or another, starting this new job really depressed me. At first I was happy when I first found I got the job, and then it just... I don't know, it made me really sick. I don't know why, I hadn't really thought of why. But it did. I suppose it's kind of - although I didn't think of it and it didn't strike me as a clear-cut thing of being why, but it's kind of just starting over again.


Here I go into another job that'll end up somewhere at another dead end and I still won't be any closer to getting back in school or... It was just kind of a case of the old go-around blues, I guess. [5:14]


THERAPIST: Well, it doesn't sound like you really weren't starting anything.


PATIENT: I know, not that I haven't been a hundred times before.


THERAPIST: (inaudible) not to help that sense of getting set before, suddenly a lot of things just falling down.


PATIENT: I have got a feeling also, although I've mentioned to you before how, for months, that I had nothing to do. I'd get up, (inaudible). And in the last week, since I've been busy enough trying to get  -  -  together to start work again, that I haven't had time to get stoned.


I've noticed the evenings that I spend without smoking anything. I'm more uptight than those that I do. And although I'm sure consciously it wasn't purpose, that I wasn't doing it just to go pass out somewhere and forget about everything. Now it presents that kind of an escape to me. Although it hasn't really presented any hassle, it's kind of like, if I really get bummed out I know I can go smoke some weed and read a book. 


But it's kind of strange. I've never had marijuana or hashish appear that way. As an escape. Maybe it isn't. I have to - like I said, I look at it that way, but I haven't used it as such, yet.


THERAPIST: I want to hear what you're saying. You wouldn't like it if you did?


PATIENT: Well, no I wouldn't. I wouldn't, definitely. I've always... One of the reasons that I ever considered it OK to me, for me, to use marijuana, is that it wasn't an escape and I wasn't just freaking out somewhere and letting reality trip on by. (Inaudible), and it'd really bum me out if it ever became that to me.


THERAPIST: There's something, it sounds like, about these evenings feeling tired, tense, or whatever (crosstalk) [7:29]


PATIENT: Oh God I haven't slept in three days. I just... I get in bed and I start worrying about something or other. And I've got to get to sleep. Christ I get up at 5:30 in the morning and I'm used to going to bed at 5:30. So I'll go to bed at 7:30, 8:30, as soon as I get Dave's (ph) dinner.


And I'll lay there and start worrying about (inaudible) about the bills, or about all the bad checks that are bouncing in and out of the bank like rubber balls, and I start getting scared. And then I start getting worried about being scared, and then I start thinking, "We'll you're really blowing it now," and it just kind of winds up in a vicious little circle that keeps getting tighter.


And I'll get up two or three times during the night. I'll go over to John's sometimes. I went over there last night, I got so tight. I'll go watch TV for a few hours, come back down. It's usually three or four in the morning before I finally just pass out, and then get up and hour and a half later.


THERAPIST: It sounds like you feel pursued by things (crosstalk).


PATIENT: Oh, God. Yeah, well. It's like I'm submerged in them. It's kind of like I've been chasing my - it's like when you see a cat chase its tail around. It's kind of like me trying to get rid of my troubles by catching my tail. Which is what the job kind of meant to me. It's like here I go on another little circle that's gonna end up right back in the position that I started in. [9:13]


Strange, I don't feel bad now. I've been really super busy active since I got home, and I did get some mail today, which helped a little. But I found that it's my tax forms and... oh gee, that's not gonna help either 'cause I know I've got about 300 dollars in taxes coming up. So at least I can put that all kind of (inaudible) procrastination.


But I'm in another position where I have to wait to see how things turn out.


THERAPIST: Is that the goal? These things that you've mentioned, they all kind of have that sense. But you have to wait for Jessica to respond, and you've got to wait for your check, and you've got to wait, I guess, to see what these checks that are bouncing are gonna do. So there isn't any breakout or any light coming through.


PATIENT: And it's like those are the more immediate ones, so if I try to look to something else, all I can look to is, wait and see if I can get my money together so I can go back to school, wait and see if I can manage to get through school, wait and do this... 


Sometimes I almost get frantic trying to find something in the present that I can at least have a little bit of joy, and take a little bit of pride, or a sense of achievement or something. But I can't really feel like I've achieved anything until I can look back on it and know that I've gotten where I hoped to get.


It gets kind of minute, when your whole day you have to chalk it up as someone laughed at one of your jokes that day.


THERAPIST: That (inaudible) pretty low if that's what makes your day.


PATIENT: I've gotten to the point where those are the things I went to bed almost reconciling the day as being worse.


THERAPIST: But those other things sound like they feel so far off that they're just, like totally unreal, and it's discouraging to have to pin your hopes on love they don't provide. [11:42]


PATIENT: That's what scares me. They're becoming more unreal. Like a year ago, when I first started all this stuff, I was really fanatical about it. I had a - I was completely hell bent on getting it done, took the next three years. But, like now all I'm doing is going on commitments that I made a year ago. If I had my way, I'd have never done it. I'd have started school then and used the old man's money.


I'm not proud anymore. I can't afford to be. But I've kind of committed myself to a mode of life and a direction that it's hard to escape from. And if I should escape from it now, I'd have to go in some other direction than where I was headed. I can't just stop work and go to school now. So I...


THERAPIST: So you're wondering if you've stepped into a trap rather than into a step toward something.


PATIENT: Yeah. Very much. I was talking to a friend (ph) the other night, and I got kind of into what it was we were talking, and I said it, just feeling it, not thinking about it. And I realized that it was kind of true that I felt that way. And it's been like, about two years since I've really been content, or happy with where I am, or what I'm doing and what I am.


And I was saying that if I had my way, even if starting right at that point I could go through the rest of my life in that condition, 'cause I'm happy. If I could look back and if time were the kind of thing that you could spare, it wasn't of a limited quantity, I'd just kind of dissect those two years out of my life. [13:50]


Another kind of way of looking at it - I was using this when I was telling Jessica about it. I was talking then about the commitment I'd made between she and I. Us being separated and me up (inaudible) and she back there, and neither one of us digging it too much, but we're both committed to it, kind of.


But it also kind of applies to just what I'm doing in general. If I do make it, and if I can look back and say, "Well, no matter what the  -  -  for it was, I did make it here," well then I'll look back and maybe be proud of myself and say, "Yep it was bad, but I made it." Then somehow or another, in the middle of it, you can't see yourself looking back. And you can't even see the end of it.


So it's as good as eternal, right there.


THERAPIST: Yeah. That's part of - we're all limited to being very real.


PATIENT: I'm super, super sensitive the last four or five days. I haven't been around people much, and it's kind of purposeful, I think. I just don't want to be around them, because I don't really feel like talking and because, well, they are something other than - it's fun to talk to them when I've got my  -  -  together, but when I don't, it's like it takes my mind away from what I'm doing. And I've had enough trouble, I don't want to lose track of it any more. [16:02]


But I was noticing on the way home that, from one song on the radio to the next, my mood shifts, sometimes almost 180 degrees. And it's like, the way I am right now, just the slightest little thing can change my emotions. It's like a feather in a rapid stream, which I don't like. I hate the instability of it. And yet, there doesn't seem to be any way I can solidify my emotions. Because the more I concentrate on them, the more likely I am to force them to move rapidly in one direction or another.


THERAPIST: Now there's something frightening about being so vulnerable to being affected by outside things. Like talking to somebody else, or a song shifting you.


PATIENT: It kind of leads me to where it's not really me. I am made up of the effects of what's around me, and I don't like that feeling. It's an ego trip, but I would like to know that I am something.


THERAPIST: Well, it may be an ego trip, but it feels to me like a very necessary (inaudible).


PATIENT: To me it is. I've known people that would say, "Well, that's ridiculous. Be nothing, and then that way you can't be heard." Well,  -  -  yes, you can't be heard, but what are you? I just couldn't understand it, I couldn't get into it at all.


THERAPIST: Like a bunch of pieces thrown all around or something, really that's how it feels to (inaudible).


PATIENT: It sounds like a really cool theory, or something to rap about, but it's absolutely impossible for me to ever... be, to ever actuate in any way. [18:00]


...But work has turned out to be a real blessing. The people I work with are just super nice. I mean usually, people are at least a little bit uptight when someone new is around, and although they didn't come up and - weren't exactly friendly with me the first day. I could even notice a considerable improvement today. People were calling me by my name, coming in to talk to me. I think I'll just really dig it out there.


THERAPIST: Like none of it caused suspicion and hostility that you sense might be there?


PATIENT: No, not at all. I expected, considering I know that down south - and as it turns out, it's true - that most of these road crews, they're made up of the... What is an ethnic community, not a ghetto, but... At any rate, they're all Jewish people. And most of them have such thick accents I can't understand them through it. But I figured they'd give me trouble either over my hair, or something like that. They haven't said a thing about it, doesn't seem to bother them at all.


Me being younger than most of them doesn't bother them at all. And just... really having a pretty good time with them. That and the jobs are pretty easy. I can't knock that either.


THERAPIST: So it sounds like that's working out OK. It doesn't have any of the tension or anything in it that you felt, but it's not giving you that solid feeling you hoped for, or...


PATIENT: No. It's like I've worked for a month now to get that  -  -  job. And now that I've got it, I find out all of the other things. I'm going to have to really get my  -  -  together to try and keep them from falling apart. I expected the financial, although it surprised me just how bad it is.


I have a feeling I may get a break there, because I think the phone company - one time one of my checks bounced - so I wrote another one to cover it, and another one the next month, because they just continued to bill. And I have a feeling they'd put both of them through. Because checks started bouncing almost a hundred dollars too soon. And I didn't know about it until too late. [21:06]


But that doesn't matter, they're still going in, one in and one out, at least, every day and it's costing me five dollars and a lot of trouble. It just - God only knows how long it bounced, and some of them have gone in twice I know, although I've put money in the bank today. 


I don't know that much about finance, but I'll to run them down, especially the ones that I know have been around awhile.


THERAPIST: Let me inject a fact in here. In terms of paying this bill, you can arrange - you can easily make an arrangement to defer what you owe here until you have more. This would be in addition to your reduction. 


PATIENT: I haven't gotten a bill from here yet. I got the one for the very first visit, the preliminary thing, but I haven't gotten one since then.


THERAPIST: Well, maybe they're listening. But anyway, when you get one, if you want to make an arrangement to defer it you can.


PATIENT: Well, it's slow they're doing so far, it may not be necessary by then.


THERAPIST: Of course, that's probably negligible enough (inaudible).


PATIENT: Most of it is small bills. There's one 50 dollar check, and that's the only thing that's really large. The rest of it's like ten or twelve dollars each.


THERAPIST: But it adds up.


PATIENT: Right. Of course, I also have a friend that I owe 140 dollars for phone bills. But I've got the money now to pay that too. I've managed to borrow some money from people, and I can get that put together to hang things off. But it's borrowing money to pay debts, and it makes me sick. I get tired of it. I can't see straight.


THERAPIST: Yeah, I have this vision of being on the beach with these breakers, and as soon as one breaks (inaudible) the whole thing crashes. On the beach there's another one, right behind it. And every one of them is washing over you. 


PATIENT: [Laughs].


THERAPIST: It's pulling you back down... Wasn't meant to be funny.


PATIENT: Well, I can laugh at myself at the strangest times. Sometimes I really get screwed up and I could just - I wish I could do it purposely, but I just get lucky every now and then and kind of look at myself from another corner of the room. And I am pitiful; it's really hysterical. But it usually doesn't last long. I enjoy it when it's here.


[23:42] 


When I start getting really uptight, I can go crazy in a way that is crazy to me. And I keep expecting, like, for someone to walk in and say, "It's OK, Norman (ph). The whole world knows about you and knows that you're not really quite what everybody else is. But we'll let you..." Or for somebody to come in and say, "We hope you're getting better now, it's been years since you've been alive, or been real..." 


I just have a feeling that the last three years have been like a bad dream and I'm going to wake up. And it scares the  -  -  out of me. It just scares me to death. It's the kind of feeling I had one time on an acid trip. As I was coming down - I'd gotten uptight earlier, and I asked a kid for some Thorazine. And he was an intern friend of mine. And he says, "Well, I can't get a hold of any." I said, "Well, we'll just keep on truckin' and see how it turns out."


And I know that he and another kid kind of purposely took me out and we went playing around outside, because I've used that tactic on people before when they get uptight. Sitting in a room listening to music isn't the coolest thing, if you'll get outside and look at something, although it looks a little different, usually they'll get hold of some reality, and they're not quite as scared.


So they took me to the Park. And all the time we were walking around, it was out there - I think I've told you before - there's a point, where you peak and you come down, and you kind of shield yourself to start coming back again. And I remember reaching that, and I kept thinking - I was scared then, and I was thinking, "Oh Christ, now they're going to come up and say, 'you're finally coming out of it after all of these months.'" [26:14]


And it was kind of the same feeling that I had when I woke up in the hospital that time, that all of my life had been a dream of me, here, all of my life there. I've known a couple people that have had that feeling.


THERAPIST: I'm not quite sure that I've got it yet. Is it like you're going to find out that you've been off somewhere alone in something that's not real, and here you've been acting like it was?


PATIENT: Yeah. I'm going to feel my - it's like I'm going to suddenly break open and find out... wow. That just scares me to talk about it, really, because... I don't know. It's like if you were to wake up someone, and you would kind of recognize things but people from that point forward would treat you completely different. And you'd be forced to realize that you didn't know reality. Or that what you had accepted as a possible reality wasn't, and therefore you never could have any real faith in it from there on.


THERAPIST: It sounds almost like people and things would be sending you signals that you were really out of it, or very different. But you would have no way of knowing quite where that - I don't know how to put it, it's like you wouldn't quite know what had happened and you would have no way of telling what was real. You'd just know that you haven't quite got it, or something. Makes you shudder. [28:44]


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know where that came from.


THERAPIST: Are you having that feeling right now?


PATIENT: Yeah, it's just scaring the  -  -  out of me, right now. Especially sitting here with that tape recorder and a chair in an analyst's office and all of that.


THERAPIST: Am I scaring you?


PATIENT: No, not you. Just...


THERAPIST: More the thought of it.


PATIENT: Yeah. The idea of it scares me. And, like it's starting to pass now. But that's the first time just thinking hard about it has ever caused that. I know it's because, like I said, I haven't slept in days. I'm a wreck.


THERAPIST: Like your psychological resistance is low.


PATIENT: Yeah. But... God. I just hate it so bad. And I have a feeling that if I can ever get to that point again, where I am happier with things around me... Why? Then I won't worry about it as much. Maybe it's like there's something in me that wants to reject this reality. And part of me is scared to, and they're having a terrible conflict. But I wish I could get it settled.


THERAPIST: Yeah, because when that conflict sort of manifests itself, the pulling gets very frightening. [30:01]


PATIENT: I don't expect to be doing acid anymore. Out of the last four or five times I've dropped, I've gotten pretty uptight. Every time. Sometimes really. I don't know whether I would ever be able to again, once I've been introduced to these things that scare me, but it seems that there's no way of avoiding.


THERAPIST: There's no way of avoiding. Avoiding them that you're expecting that acid would make it worse?


PATIENT: Yes, definitely. I mean, especially on acid, there's no way of avoiding. And there's a point on acid - there's a point like I admit to myself that, you know, you're  -  -  - , you better do something about it. Or, you're in for a bad time. And that's when I go ask somebody if they can get Thorazine, or that's when I say, "Lookit, let's go off to a room, I'm really scared, and let's just talk." It's when I ask for help, or at least try to do something.


And the last few days, I've felt that way whether I'm stoned or not. And it's scaring me, really bad. It's like when I'm stoned - if I can remember that I'm stoned, I always have that (inaudible) thing. Just wait a few hours, even though hours can be eternity. Just like, if you can't see the end, it seems like it. But at least it's easier to occupy myself for a couple hours, and it'll start coming back together. [32:06]


When you're straight, there's no - there's not gonna be any coming back together in a few hours. And when it gets to a point where I'm really scared enough of myself or of what's in me or what I'm feeling, or maybe what's not around me or what I don't think it's - or whatever it is, it's kind of admitting to myself that something is really drastically wrong.


THERAPIST: And really, it sounds like really basic too.


PATIENT: Yeah, and I've just never found that in myself before. I don't necessarily know what it means, and I'm not sure what causes it - God I'm shaking like a leaf - but I'm sure I've gotten the (inaudible). I'm thinking if I don't get some sleep soon, I'm gonna take a day off.


I have three personal days that I don't even have to be sick for, three a year. And I'll just take one off and sleep. I think that would help a bunch.


THERAPIST: It sounds like you're saying, when you get those feelings with acid or something like that, you can put it off to something. You can put it off on, "Something inside me knows I'll come down off of it."


PATIENT: Sometimes, yeah. It's a struggle to keep that in mind. But if I can, then I'm OK. If I can't, then I blow it completely and after that I don't know whether I'm scared or not. I'm just completely gone. That's only happened once. But I wouldn't want it to happen again.


THERAPIST: But it's frightening when it feels like it's part of you, is what I'm (inaudible).


PATIENT: Yeah. When it's not the acid, I can't point my finger at something and say, "Here's what it is." [33:57]


THERAPIST: It looks to me like you're kind of still being gripped by that.


PATIENT: Oh yeah.


THERAPIST: Are there any thoughts or pictures in your mind?


PATIENT: I was thinking of Matt.


THERAPIST: I was wondering if you felt pulled toward him or something.


PATIENT: No. I talked to Matt, I don't know when. He's talking to me again. Extremely strange conversations, (inaudible). Every now and then a thought will pass by and pull it out of him. Very cryptic meaning and the other one, there's no communication really, we just kind of reflect off of it. [36:00]


But he said that - I can't remember the exact words now - something to the effect of, "How disgusting." I don't use disgusting, I can't remember the other word but it was something to the effect of "reasonless" or "pointless." Maybe that was it. Life and... That's the first time he's ever said anything to me about where his head is since he really seemed to have gotten so uptight, but, to me, I don't know whether that's me just reading it into it or not but it kind of confirmed what I'd been thinking.


THERAPIST: You mean what you'd been thinking about him?


PATIENT: Yeah... I get scared of being scared. I'm slowly coming back together now but a little bit ago, I was scared that I'd started screaming. And I wouldn't stop. And I'm also scared because I almost - it's like I've already admitted that something's wrong to me, and it's like once I scream, I'll go that much farther. And I don't know where it's going, and I don't know whether I can get back from it.


THERAPIST: It's like each little thing that you do to indicate that you felt really apart or really upset, really would have a meaning, like you'd taken an irrevocable step where you couldn't take that back that you really screamed and screamed and screamed. You couldn't take that back. You really think that could mean something. You know what that something is? 


PATIENT: No. Maybe that... I don't know.


THERAPIST: But sometimes doing something like that is a relief, but it sounds like it really wouldn't be that for you.


PATIENT: No. It's like my head feels like it could just go in a thousand directions. And once they started, they could never come back together. And even if they could, it's like something would be holding them there. They really wouldn't fit together. [39:12]


A few minutes ago I was saying that actually I felt pretty good right now. It was kind of an example of what I was saying, that I can just flip from one... 


THERAPIST: Yeah, it's like even that quick change there was something scary to it all. 


PATIENT: Kind of. I'm not sure that that change was scary in itself.


THERAPIST: You're just saying that to (crosstalk) (inaudible).


PATIENT: Yeah, that was a pretty heavy emotion, anyway. I have a feeling if that should ever start on me, that it would have its way, one way or another anyway. I mean, that I would become involved in it.


I keep trying to think of what could possibly be [under it] (ph). [42:01]


THERAPIST: If you could pinpoint the cause, somehow that would help? Maybe. 


PATIENT: Well, like I could say that I'm super insecure. That's true too, but that's not something that I could do anything about. If I'm insecure, I'm insecure because of something. And I could point out to a thousand directions from there, but... that's almost the effect that they (ph) make another circle. 


There's a thousand things that might stem from me being insecure, and that bases on a thousand things that came before it. Or that came with it, or that it came from.


THERAPIST: It sounds like you're saying there's got to be a (inaudible) to it, I mean it would be so helpful to find the one thing that's the hub of it all, it would get there. We could see what it was. That might not stop it, but it would have a name. 


PATIENT: Sunday night, I get up at about two in the morning and finish Siddhartha because I couldn't sleep. And that freaked me out so bad. I mean, not even at the time. It's just kind of been on my mind since, the complete insanity of it. The whole end of that book. That I'm even scared to read books, until I can look at them as ink (ph), instead of finding me in them or them becoming part of me. 


I just wish there were a little more of... I would like to come from somewhere, instead of feeling like I'm a reflection. [45:02]


THERAPIST: But you didn't feel any longer like, well I'm (inaudible) sitting here reading this book by this man, it's like seeing yourself there, or a theme defined by the ending of that book, or something, and having no way of putting it aside like you do with a book.


PATIENT: Well, it wasn't even just the book, it was like the book was just added to all the other things that have made me up, but... it seems like the resources that I fall back on is me, and I keep casting them off as false, but they're from somewhere else and I don't find me anywhere.


THERAPIST: I see. I [can get you] (ph). It's like everywhere you look you see what's determining you. And there's nothing that feels essentially yours and nobody else's. Or yours and you can't say, "Well, I see that's just a product of such-and-such."


PATIENT: Right. I seem to have been made, even though it's like everything that I think or believe in is from the -


(Crosstalk)


Yeah, and there doesn't seem to be anything that was basic within me. I just started with a clean slate and started writing as I experienced. And when I look back, I can cast things off, this, is to that experience, this to that is to that, and I end up with nothing again.


THERAPIST: I guess it's the casting off says something to me, like if there's something that's really you, you can't cast it off. You've got it for good and you can hang on to it. But it's like the disposability of all these things that's (inaudible). [47:16]


PATIENT: This, is the kind of scene that will, two days from now, cause me more anxiety. Not here, but I'll go home to nobody to do nothing. And I'll probably get that much more uptight. I'd like to go home and at least call Jessica, but I can't do that because of the situation between she and I right now.


I hesitated finally writing that letter to her, because I was hoping she would write on her own and that way it would be from her. And if I comped (ph) it, although that way at least I would be real enough to express my feelings, why, then, she wouldn't necessarily be real to me.


I wouldn't know it anyway. So I was forced in a situation, she was real or I wasn't, and it finally came to the point where I broke before she did, and I wrote the letter. But if I should go back and call her now, then whatever the outcome of that letter would be, would be almost superfluous. It's like I'm getting so many things tangled up, so many emotions right... I was really p -  - - o - . [49:32]


A piece of postage is a poor excuse not to write me for a month. And yet, if I called her tonight, feeling like I do, it would be a completely different thing and things are confusing enough to me. I don't to make them - I don't want to confuse her into it. I don't know if I could even say it myself. I don't want to be that many different people
that don't seem to be put together. Because they don't to me. I don't want them to be that way to somebody else.


THERAPIST: The (inaudible), yeah. It's almost, in a way, like you don't want her to see all these things that you're going through, in a way. You want her to ask for herself -


PATIENT: It's not so much that I would dislike her knowing what's going on (ph). I would very much like for her to be able to understand what I'm going through right now. I think we'd understand each other a lot better. Because I know she's really in a p - - p - - way too. I don't understand it. But to see only - she wouldn't understand it. She would only see its effects.


She would read a letter - she'd get a call from me one night where I'm very upset, very lonely. And two days later she'd get a letter from me written before she got the call, where I'm very p -  - - o - . And it would only cause problems. She wouldn't understand it... [51:03]


THERAPIST: What came out of [this life] (ph), she'd only be seeing these manifestations. But she would end up - she wouldn't know what you were either.


PATIENT: Her first reaction would be simply to say, " -  -  you. You're really way off base. You've blown it." Then I started to say, "You're crazy," and I avoided that, because I already admit to that. But there is a crazy to me, and that's where you're uncomfortable with yourself. So if I say "crazy," that's what I mean.


THERAPIST: Yeah, you said that earlier tonight... No. I didn't mean you were repeating yourself.


PATIENT: Did I really say that earlier, though?


THERAPIST: No, what you said - I know I heard this 'cause it made me think of your telling me before your definition of crazy and you said something on the order of, "I'm really uncomfortable with myself now. I'm bad off with myself now."


PATIENT: See, I've been avoiding using that word, because it scares me. You know, that's what it is to me, something that's uncomfortable. And it scares me. But if she were to see these symptoms, she's got problems of her own. And we can't solve our problems by merely throwing these one extreme emotion and then another they contradict each other and you can't handle both of them.


What I want to do is follow one through. I've taken a course now, I've got to follow it through. And it's like now that I'm here, I've got to go on and work until I get back in school, because if I don't, it's like I won't get back in school. Once I've started this course, I've got to do it, or we'll never get it straightened out. We'll just keep confusing it more. [53:34]


It's such a hell of a hassle to try and - we're both changing an awful lot. And I don't know - it's like we continue to get off track with each other in the last six months. And it's really painful to try and keep up with each other, along with keep up with yourself.


THERAPIST: It's like (inaudible) but if you call her, it sounds like you might not know who you're calling. Or, when she doesn't write, you don't know who she'll be the next time she does (inaudible).


PATIENT: Well, I wasn't even worried about her identity to me so much as mine to her. Or mine to mine.


THERAPIST: Yeah, and that's the main point right now, I wasn't sure what this was about. Is it some consequence you feel that you're showing different things than (inaudible) her? That's where I'm not clear about. Or maybe that's too much of a head defying question.


PATIENT: God I don't know. My head's going too fast right now, I guess (ph). [55:20]


THERAPIST: Will it help you to stay here a while longer? Because I have the time to do that if you want to. Although it really is up to you.


PATIENT: I don't know. I suppose that I'd probably just as well get going. I have to get back and the first thing I'll walk into is dinner and everybody's gathered (inaudible). It'll help settle me down a little bit, I think. I don't know. I'll just try and find Sam (ph) and get into a card game until I know I'm so tired that I'll fall asleep when I get to bed.


THERAPIST: That's some really concrete research (inaudible).


PATIENT: Or at least so mundane that it occupies me and I don't have to think about anything. Escape isn't like that. It confuses me a lot of times, I don't know whether I like it or I don't. I don't like - like I wouldn't want to use marijuana because I find pleasure in it. And I won't smoke cigarettes because I don't like what they do for me.


But marijuana, I don't think does harmful things to me in that way. It's just that I do find pleasure in it, and I don't want it to be in any way, or in any possible way a negative effect on me. I would like it just to be something that's personal to me.


(Crosstalk)


PATIENT: But I would consider, right now, taking some Thorazine and falling asleep until tomorrow. That's still escapism, but for some reason or another I couldn't knock it at all. It's like cards right now. I often try and goad myself to not try and (inaudible). I might feel the first tinges of feeling upset, and I'll just try and ignore it. [57:47]


And sometimes I go, "You shouldn't do that. You should go ahead and try and feel the emotions and see if you can figure them out." And I really don't know which I should do. Sometimes when I get into them, they're more than I can handle and more than I want to handle. And yet when I don't, I sometimes feel guilty, like maybe I'm suppressing myself.


THERAPIST: It sounds like right now though, the release is kind of paramount, or the being occupied with other things that's important for you. I mean right now, tonight, I mean.


PATIENT: And then after the hurt I just went through, I don't think, "At last I got left alone." I don't think I could get back into that. I'm really wasted that, that happens to me, it just leaves me a complete washout. It'll be a while yet before I'm [in line] (ph) but I'll just be so drug out.


The other night I just sat down and cried for about a half hour. And I didn't feel good afterwards, but I just didn't feel anything. It's really seldom that I can manage that. I wish I could just sit down and cry and have it over with a lot of times. But I don't seem to be able to. [59:02]


THERAPIST: Now look, let me say that I don't know if it would be any help to you or not. But if you want to talk to somebody, or if that will help your - first thing would be to call me.


PATIENT: I'm glad you said that, I almost called you once last weekend, and I didn't know whether I should or not.


THERAPIST: Please do. You know, like sometimes I'm hard to find. But don't have any compunctions about calling in the evening or something like that. In fact, you can even wake me up in the middle of the night. It might take me a while to get into it, but I mean that. Sometimes that isn't much of a help to people, but if it is, do.


PATIENT: Well, I'd better get trippin'.


THERAPIST: OK. Do you want Friday at 7?


PATIENT: Yeah. I'll be making it (inaudible) with you from now on. Got home and had to make an unexpected run to the bank.


THERAPIST: OK. Thank you.


PATIENT: Thanks.


THERAPIST: (Inaudible). It's roofing solvent. That's why, remember I said something about being gas lines, well it seems to be coming back. And the kind of thing that's so bad about it was last week it was in everybody's office. Today, it's only in (crosstalk).


END TRANSCRIPT
