TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is Session No. 2 on Wednesday, November 18th.
PATIENT: I still have the same thing that I did last week here now. Just start talking?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Oh. (chuckling) Now I was trying to think...during the week once in a while and this morning I was trying to leave my mind open and see if I could figure out what was going on and what I thought was the problem. And I didn't get any place needless to say (chuckling) with the big boy, but I did think of something. I had a problem with sex for a while...I was afraid to have an affair. And this like went on for a long time because my mother instilled this, she was very strict Catholic, that...like, "You're going to get pregnant! You're going to get pregnant!" So I just thought that this might be something that I could throw in. I don't know if it will help or not, but when I had an affair here for the last year and that was something had, oh, I'm going to just take in stride, because I was really smart...a big shot then. So I went to bed with this fellow who is my age, he was like 21, I think I was 20, and he, it hurt. (chuckling) You know I was expecting bells to ring with him. Wow! But, and it hurt, and that was about it. I didn't get anything out of it. So then I thought there was something wrong with me. And then I thought, I didn't have my period for about four months. See I was convincing myself I think that I was pregnant was what it was and I went crazy. Then I went to this doctor and I had all these guilt feelings. She was very old guard, you know, "Thought you were so smart didn't you?" (chuckling) You know (making noise).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I do know. Where were you?
PATIENT: Yeah, right. (chuckling) So she got me to the point, well not really she got me, I had guilt feelings or she couldn't have gotten me any place and I know that now. But it was so funny because she kept telling me, "Maybe you are pregnant." I went, "Uh, maybe I'm what?" So I went through all these tests and found out...that I wasn't, naturally. But it was something because it was like a trauma that I didn't realize. See sometimes I don't realize when I'm going through something until I'm really into it. And then somebody has to hit me on the head and say, "You know that's why!" And then, "Oh." (chuckling) So this was one problem too, and I don't know if this has anything to do with the rejection thing that I felt before, but I know it did hurt me afterwards because I remember the next day he came out with something like, "Well I guess now they'd say that I got you." And I thought, "Ah!" (chuckling) Here he's been going along, I went with the fellow for about eight months...and I kept saying, "No, no, no, no, no." Well so finally I thought, "Well it's about time I became a woman." You know, so I said, "Okay." (big sigh) So funny. And then I found, here he goes again...he turns and says the same thing...in essence. You know like, "Now I got you." I thought, "Oh, no."
COUNSELOR: And what did he say?
PATIENT: He said, "Now they'd say, I think they'd say I got you." You know?
COUNSELOR: So it's like you didn't mean anything and... [overlapping voices at 0:03:04.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, really like that's the way I felt. And then like the next week we went out and I had told him a couple of times before, this is what he brought up afterwards, that I had said, "I'd never marry you." And he comes up the next week and says that. "I'd never marry you." Not that I wanted to get married, it was just the idea of the thing. "Oh, right. Now because...something that you said was fine and it was all good and now you're saying that you believe that you were really up to it and I thought that I was going to be up and be hip, too." And (chuckling) then I find out he was just like all the rest...they say, "Fine, lets do something." Or whatever and then you do and then bing! Of course this was the only one I ever went... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Even though you didn't want to marry him... [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: No, it was just the idea.
COUNSELOR: ...asking you was when he told you he didn't want to... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...that that made you feel really... [overlapping voices at 0:03:45.1]... 
PATIENT: Yeah, because before he had been hinting at times. He'd gone from going to bed to getting married and going to bed. Now he'd never really put them together and yet he had said something like, he never wanted to marry a virgin and things like this because she'd be...she didn't know what she was doing, and it didn't make any difference to him and...this type of thing. That...like you could have a nice relationship and then get married. Not... 
COUNSELOR: So and he would like trick you?
PATIENT: Sort of, yeah. Like it was a big thing and like I don't think he even realized it. He thought he was hip too and that this was...it was fine because, when I read a little more about it, when I talk about it, I think, "This isn't such a big thing. It's just a natural relation (ph)." Well I found out that it was just nothing more than a release for tension and everything. So...like what's the big thing? But we've put it in society. You know like this is terrible. It's a no-no. You don't do that. And then I realized that I was really still growing up in that area because...I was afraid I was going to get pregnant because this is what was taught to me when I was young. If you do it, you're going to get pregnant! So that was one thing I found out about myself...that I was kind of afraid and wary (ph). And I had... 
COUNSELOR: How is it for you now? I mean does he, can you just look back and laugh at that or is it still with you?
PATIENT: Well, I think about it sometimes. I think that's why I never had another affair because I was afraid. I guess that goes all the way back to the rejection bit. That I really, not even that I really didn't love the fellow and I really didn't care about losing him. It would just be the idea of it that I don't like to be lied to. I don't like someone to say that this is fine and it doesn't make any difference and...this is what should be done. And then they turn around and boom...afterwards. And I'm not saying that I'm so naive that I will follow what anybody says. I'm just saying like...they really, they'll sock it to you for eight months, then say that they take something...not just once but like over and over and over again. You think that's how they believe, and from other people, and just trying to think on your own...which is hard to do when you're...when you're like me, that I haven't had a lot of education in that yet. And I've found myself that...like I'll go along with this and I will actually agree with it sort of. But see this old time from when I'm young starts welling up again and what was taught when you were young, even though you know it's ridiculous...it just comes back sometimes. [0:06:05.4]
COUNSELOR: But first you were saying it's sort of hard for you to trust anybody because they... 
PATIENT: Yeah, it is.
COUNSELOR: ...lie to you?
PATIENT: I was very, even with girls. I told one of my girlfriends - I have like two best girlfriends and they were the, one of them went through therapy and told me to come here and the other one's got quite a few problems that she worked out mostly through Yoga, which I am trying to get into a little bit, too. But at any rate, I have another girlfriend at work, a black girl, and I didn't trust her at first because she used to come and she'd give me little treats and things like this. And I've always been wary of people that...have their hand out with sugar because I'm afraid the other hand might slug you...so that I was very, very afraid to be her friend at first. I would always...I tell you so much, I do so much when you want me. She liked a fellow that was right next to my boss. You know, she had worked for him for a while and then moved, she was moved. So she would do things like call me up and say, "Is he in?" And things like this. And I said, "Well she's probably just being nice to me so that I'll tell her where he is and when he's in I think." This is actually the way I thought. Now, now it's like, it's sort of like a giving and taking. So all right, she wants me to check out, okay, I'll do that because this is a friend. But I know that she's a friend...because we confide and things like this and she takes me out to lunch and I take her out for lunch and things like this. But for a long time I was very afraid. I'm very paranoid of people. She came around and she said right out and she says, "Well you're paranoid. What do you want?" (chuckling) And I said, "Oh, that's nice." And I realized I am, I'm very paranoid of people. Very afraid to say things. Very afraid of how they're going to take them because I'm not all that confident in myself and I know it now. I thought I was really something big...like I was getting someplace. I had a lot of confidence and I thought I was really something. And then I realized I've got a lot, a long way to go to get that confidence that I want in myself, you know. So then it's always that I'm afraid somebody's going to say this and they're not going to agree with me and they're going to say I'm stupid and they're going to say that - I got a big hangup on that too...about people telling me I'm stupid because I haven't been to college and things. I have noticed this, I think it is so stupid in itself. Now I'm getting to that point where I can say, "I don't care if you say because I haven't been to college I'm dumb. I'm not dumb. I'm ignorant in certain areas but I'm very smart in other areas." You know.
COUNSELOR: Like you have some places where you're okay then?
PATIENT: Yeah, I've got some places where I'm getting a little more confidence because I've seen a lot of fellows, especially through college, that if I told them I'm a secretary, right away, (making noise) categorize her dumb. She's not clever. She's...very boring. She's this, she's that. And I think that's so stupid. Because just because I'm working in a secretarial job right now because it's the only thing I'm skilled in right now, that this is all I'm ever going to be and this is all I think about is the typing and the shorthand, well that's silly.
COUNSELOR: So it's more like an attitude that's been directed at you personally? [0:08:55.8]
PATIENT: Yeah. But I never took it that way. I would think that I'm stupid, I'm dumb. And now I'm getting to the point where saying, "Well I'm not so stupid and so dumb. You're very narrow. You know you may be very intelligent and very learned but you're very narrow because you put everybody in a category and you can't do that." You know, like you can have ten doctors and one or two of them might, or maybe even eight of them just think about medicine and there might be two that think about people and things like this, too. (chuckling) That reminds me of my great love, my doctor. When I was 17, I broke my leg and this very good looking, about 38-year-old man who...he's from Romania or something...with the accent, the dark hair, the whole bit, right? So he comes in and he's my doctor and all the nurses are madly in love with him and I was madly in love with him and he left. I almost died. It was just before I got my cast off. It was right before my 18th birthday. And he said, "I'm going to Oklahoma." I went, "Oh!" I never cried so hard in my life. It was so funny. (chuckling) And he had never...he'd never kissed me. He'd never touched me that way. It was just, it was like a one-sided complete, madly in love with him. Partly because he was the type of doctor that wasn't just very good but he was very good with people. You know like you weren't a number, you weren't so much money that he's going to get in. You were somebody that, you were a person and he cared about your feelings. And it was just so nice to have somebody that was like this, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I really fell madly in love with him or whatever, infatuation, but it lasted almost a year so it must have been something, you know? (chuckling) And... 
COUNSELOR: For someone to care about you when you were being... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...shipped out from place to place?
PATIENT: Maybe that would be it. And the other thing too, that I was wearing a cast at the time...from here to here and he would say real sweet things. Like he called me 'pure Jane' because I blushed when he was putting the cast up around here. I was 17, (chuckling) all-girl high school, Catholic high school again, oh. And so that's how I was, very, very prudish. This is one reason, see again, that it was very hard for me to change because this was all in the course of about a year or year and a half that I changed a lot of my ideas and I tried to become more open minded. It's pretty hard to do when you're from like a - well starting out I guess it was the longest placement (ph) and southwest side, which was like six years, and you know how...it's like there's little pocketed neighborhoods on the west side...and you're just like in a neighborhood you learn this and that's it, everybody conforms. But... 
COUNSELOR: So if I hear you right, you just like recently, barely recently, gone through an awful lot of changes?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you thought that you'd maybe finished and now it's time to go on to other things and you didn't (ph) think that was true.
PATIENT: Yeah. See the, it, the past starts welling up every once in a while, you know. And it's not so hard to fight that. See again like I said, because I know what that is. I know that that's from there, now. I didn't at the time. That was when I was like 20 or if I remember I was 19, 19 or 20. Twenty, I was 20 when this happened, so it was a little over a year ago. And see now I can look back at all of the things that have happened there and I can see...where this has welled up and where that has welled up. But there is still that problem with fellows that has just come out more recently since I moved with my girlfriend. Because she has been through like six years of college. She can handle men. She's got more boyfriends than anyone I've ever seen in my life! She's got them coming and going and she's got them sending flowers from Connecticut and jetting in once a week and... (chuckling) [overlapping voices at 0:12:34.1]... 
COUNSELOR: So there you are just watching all that happen?
PATIENT: That's part of it. And I feel like a lot of times when I'm out, I feel like I have to try...extra hard and I try to play the intellectual. See I was very dissatisfied with where I came from...my background and that. So what I was trying to do is take on her personality and her, and try to act, to be an intellectual. I'm not an intellectual yet. It's going to take quite a few years to be an intellectual. And so I tried to play a role that I wasn't. And she says, "Well why don't you just try to be sweet and nice like you are and then work on the intellectual side until you get to that point where you can also be an intellectual, if that's what you want?" So then I say, "Oh boy, here I go again." And I used to copy a lot of her hairstyles and things like this because I admired her and I didn't like what I was. And I think that's a very bad quality, not to like what you are or what you're from because there's nothing you can do about that, you know. All you can do is change yourself for the better in the future or right now. And so I was very unhappy inside, too. And this again I think is very bad. That you shouldn't feel that way, you know. And so that's a problem, too. That I'm very, very unhappy, not dissatisfied but actually unhappy, you know?
COUNSELOR: About yourself?
PATIENT: About myself. You know I always say - I think I like to change things like right now! (hitting desk) You know? It's like, I don't like it, so change it! But I know that I can't do that. It's got to be a lot of work. See I'm kind of lazy too, basically. I know that, too. I'd rather just say... 
COUNSELOR: Like you'd like it to happen... 
PATIENT: Yeah, just like a book.
COUNSELOR: ...right now!
PATIENT: Somebody would [drop and break my left] (ph)...I'm perfect or I'm better or I'm what I want to be. I'd like to get four years of college under my belt like that, (hitting desk) so that I can feel. Mostly I don't think it's even the college itself, because I've known people who've been through college and they say like half the courses are irrelevant...it's the people a lot...that are on the campus, the different ideas you're exposed to, that's part of it they said. And...like and then I thought to myself, "Well maybe it's not all that important." I mean I'm going to college but like it's not all. I used to put like a big bill (ph) - How can I say? - even now I still do. I admit it. It's almost like a badge. Like I think somebody's been to college so right away they're smart. Right away they're intelligent. Right away they're this. See I even do it. I even put people into categories. But with fellows supposedly... 
COUNSELOR: You do it and also you expect other people to do it to you?
PATIENT: I think so, yeah. I think this is it. And yet I don't feel that way with a girl so much as I do with fellows, mostly because I do think they are a little more - How can I say it? - well rounded if they've been through four years of college. But with a fellow it's almost a must to get a decent job. And I admit it, I like to go to nice places and if a fellow can't afford it...if he's not gone to school or something, if he doesn't know how to treat a girl when they're out and things like this because he's never been to places like this...so I guess that's what I want. I've acquired champagne tastes in the six months too...I like all these nice things and I don't have the money for them of course but...like and I wish I had fellows that did. But then see, I don't fit with these fellows yet, so I'm sort of like a transitional girl, right in the middle. And I've got like somebody whose so far advanced and I'm living with her, which is a problem right in itself in a way, and yet she's so much like a big sister to me that it's...it's like that Betty would view something just like, "Ooh." You know. (chuckling) [0:15:54.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And then other times she's just so good that you can't hate her... 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible]... 
PATIENT: ...or you can't be jealous of her really.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: You know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You really like her... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and...she's really warm to you and like that but that makes it harder because you're always feeling like you're one down.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. That's exactly how I feel, like I'm only second or third on the totem pole and she's on the top. (chuckling) You know, so I told her that I wanted to move out on my own but not until like May, because she said she'd be around but she thought she would, I would need somebody when I'm going through therapy. And I know I will, like especially when I get whatever it is...comes out. I know it's going to really break loose, because I'm just waiting. I can feel it. I know I'm right on the edge and I just wish to heck I could cross it, you know. It's like I'm talking and talking, I'm trying to get out what the heck it is and it's just not coming. It's really frustrating. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Sort of like being on the edge of a cliff you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. You know that you're about ready to...leap or jump or fall or something but you're just about ready to go over and you can't do it.
COUNSELOR: It's a long way down.
PATIENT: It is a long way down. (both chuckling) And you know it's going to be real quick once you get passed it but it's just like...like there's a fence up there and you're trying to get it down. It's very hard.
COUNSELOR: What is the fence like?
PATIENT: I don't know. I never really thought about it, except that I feel like sometimes I'm, I feel - like when I was talking, I could just feel like there's something that's going to come out. It's going to come out. Come on. It's going to come out. And it doesn't come. You know, whatever it is it doesn't come to the mind what it is. And sometimes I just feel like that I might be touching on a subject that will open it up. And it's very funny because I came now and I don't know like where that came from, you know?
COUNSELOR: It came just now?
PATIENT: Yeah. It came right when I was talking about that. All of the sudden I felt like...I'm just on the edge of saying something that's going to come out and it's going to help. And then, I couldn't think of what I was going to say...there was nothing there. It's just like... 
COUNSELOR: When you were talking about your, the person you were living with you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. Like when I said I was always second on the totem pole and I wanted to be first. And I don't know now whether this goes back to when I was little, maybe when I was with my brother, like when he was older.
COUNSELOR: Can you try, just settling in with that feeling and seeing where it takes you? I mean just like...letting it be for a minute and seeing what would come to you from that feeling about your roommate? You know, kind of stop it a minute and if let go? [silence from 0:18:19.5 to 0:18:38.4]
PATIENT: You know the only thing I can think of is it's like a thread that goes back...I don't know how far I can trace it. I know that that's been the case and I know that it's been like that way with a lot of things. And I've felt that way with my girlfriends...when they've gotten a fellow that I've liked or something and then I felt second. And I felt it in tests sometimes, which is silly, in high school. One of my best girlfriends might get like a couple of points higher...the NADD Test. [0:19:07.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Well so what, you got in the top 10 percent. Yeah, but she got 95 and I only got 94, you know. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Just like never quite good enough.
PATIENT: Never, never quite, right. Never quite making it. I've got just like, things like that pop into my mind, how I feel, a lot of times second best like. I don't know whether it's because I hang - well I think it's better to hang around with people who are a little bit sharper that you are in order to sharpen up, you know.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:19:30.0]... 
PATIENT: But I guess sometimes it bothers me. Yeah. Sometimes I think it makes me feel like, "Oh, Jesus." And I know - I can remember another thing that came to me just now. I was starting to teach a personal development course in my...the one girlfriend who is a teacher brought my other girlfriend and myself, my other best girlfriend and myself, in to watch the classes. Now she brought me in first and she said that I would get the first class. And I said, "Okay." So then I'm starting through this trauma bit and like I was, every time she'd say something I did wrong, I'd say, "Oh Jesus, I did something else wrong." You know, I was to that point where I was floundering and that's when I started to copy her. And I remember that she gave the first class to that other girl, to my other girlfriend. And I thought, "Oh Jesus, here we go again." You know, I was promised this and I didn't get it, she got it. And so I kept, then again, I found myself comparing myself with her and saying, "Well what is she better in? You know, what does she do better than I do? Why can't I..." You know, I thought I was a good teacher. And I even got to the point lately where I don't even know if I am a teacher. I know I'm strong, from last from that Yoga demonstration.
COUNSELOR: So it's more like always comparing yourself to... [overlapping voices at 0:20:39.3]
PATIENT: Yeah. I find myself comparing myself with others and not proving out in a very good light...or I'll say, "Well I'm just as good at this and I'm just as good at that, how come not this?" You know? "How come I don't get this and they do? What's wrong with me?" You know?
COUNSELOR: So it's always, you always see yourself as losing somehow that... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you didn't get what was coming to you?
PATIENT: More or less, yeah. And I found something like really stupid this morning, too. I was looking for a pair of nylons that I had, opaque hose, which was silly. I was looking for them. I couldn't find them. First thing that came to my mind, which is stupid, she would never do this, is, "I bet she wore them and she ran them." And I said, "What the hell did that come into my mind for? She wouldn't do something like." And yet it's the first thing that came to my mind. "She's the only one else that lives here, she must have worn them because I can't find them." More than likely they'll turn up. I threw them someplace and didn't know where I threw them. But it's just... 
COUNSELOR: It's like somebody cheated me or somebody... 
PATIENT: Yeah. It's just like and my best friend yet...and I just, it's almost like I'm expecting her to turn around and stab me in the back, which is, (chuckling) boy, let's talk about paranoid, that's ridiculous. You know?
COUNSELOR: But that's the feeling?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I mean I got rid of it but I mean the thing is, is it came and there's no reason for that to come, even a thought like that to cross your mind. You think, "Jesus! What a thing to think about your best friend! That she's going to turn around and stab me in the back anytime you're not looking." And that's in essence what I was saying, you know. And I thought, "Wow!" (chuckling) And I mean like I didn't... [0:22:08.1]
COUNSELOR: I know and it made you feel kind of guilty or... [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I feel guilty even thinking of that. (chuckling) But then I thought...like more than even guilty, it shocked me that I would think of that of my best friend. You know because she's proved time and time again she's my friend. That I can trust her. That I can... 
COUNSELOR: But still... 
PATIENT: ...cure (ph) it and still it comes up that I'm afraid that she's going to - as soon as I turn my back she's going to stab me in the back. It's just like this...it's kind of funny. And I don't know whether that was the answer of my, or at least part of the answer, because last night I tried...I was talking to the guy upstairs and I said, "Please open my mind. Find out what's in there. Please...help me get it out." And maybe that's what part of the answer was, that there's...it's like a paranoid feeling that you can never trust anybody because everybody's going to turn on you. And I never realized I was that paranoid, I really didn't. You know and maybe that's part of it, that he was helping me with that. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: That sometime they're always going to turn away from you?
PATIENT: Yeah. They're either going to reject me or they're going to even do worse than that, they're going to actually turn on me and...do something to me.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Now, I again, I don't know where that started and I wish to heck I knew...I wish I could get back far enough that it would come out. Because I know they always say you can't, you don't forget anything, it just goes into subconscious. To get it out, that's the problem. But I don't know. That's very funny because I just thought of that again, what happened this morning. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like with your roommate, like you feel really close to her but that's going to stop somehow. Like you always have to be afraid of something.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And her mother too. Her mother is fantastic but, and see I know this, I knew this even...before, that I was afraid to get close to her mother because I was afraid...like she's going to move. And I remember she went to move and she'd always been...like, "Jane (ph)...come along." We'd go swimming. She was always real nice to me. So I tried to be nice to her and she could feel it. You know like, she says, and she's trying so hard to be nice to me. She doesn't have to try like that hard. She told Jodie...that's my girlfriend, she said, "Don't... [inaudible at 0:24:18.7] I like her. I like her and I want her...around." And then I would feel like I'd have to be...ultra nice to her because she was so nice to me and there was no reason for it. This is part of it. Part of it I think I was afraid that she was going to turn around.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So like you had to do everything you could to keep her.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And so she moved and I didn't remember Jodie telling me what time she was going to move out of her apartment. She lived like in the same court building. She was moving only about five blocks away. Well I didn't know this. I thought she was moving to the suburbs or something. So, I thought she had said sometime early or sometime in the morning. Well I got over there like 12 o'clock, she was all done...and I thought, "Oh, boy." Then I thought to myself, "Did you really want to move? Maybe you didn't want to help her?" You know? And then I felt guilty about that. I said, "Oh, Jesus." You know? And then I started to cry. And then when I was finished crying, I said to myself, "Well, why are you crying? Are you crying because you cared about her or are you crying because you think that she's left now, too?" And I thought to myself, "That's why you're crying. You're afraid she's not going to love you anymore. She's not going to care about you anymore...because you didn't help her." So I remember I went out and I bought her something from K.M. Hightower's...like I spent like a whole part-time paycheck, (chuckling) which is like 15 bucks. It's, well...but I mean it was still a substantial amount for just like a small housewarming gift for somebody whose not even a relative or really that close. [0:25:35.9]
COUNSELOR: Kind of make it up to her?
PATIENT: But it was like...making up. I have to make up so that she won't...not care about me, you know? And it's really weird. And yet with my own mother, I feel like I didn't even want to see her. And I still, I would still rather - like last week I called my brother and he said, "Do you want to go out to see your mom this Sunday?" I said, "Oh, I can't." Because I was already invited by Jodie's mother over to dinner. See, it was almost like - and I sat down and thought about, tried to think about that, too. And I was thinking...because I felt this before that my mother might have rejected me, like my mother didn't really care. You know I think I told you that last week. And I saw myself wanting more to be with this woman and being with her like through, well my girlfriend's nephew was going to be over too and her brother and sister-in-law and them, and I wanted to be more with these people because they didn't have to care and they did, you know. Whereas my own mother...like I felt like, I go out there and I can't talk to her. I don't know her. I, she doesn't send letters anymore. She used to have nurses or something write for her. She doesn't do that anymore even. I know a lot of it's my fault because I don't write to her either, but...it's just the idea that, I really don't want to go out and see her. And in a way I feel guilty about it because I'm supposed to love my mother...this is the thing. And I really came to the conclusion I don't really have a feeling for my mother. I can go like for a year without seeing her.
COUNSELOR: So you feel you never meant anything to your mother?
PATIENT: Yeah. And the only time I can remember ever even calling for my mother was, I was about 12 and I had a fight with my stepmother over some stupid thing and I started crying. And I cried and I cried and I cried and I kept crying, "Mommy! Mommy! Mommy!" And she wasn't there. (now crying) She wasn't there. [crying hard from 0:27:24.0 to 0:27:40.7] [I don't know what I was thinking.] (ph) (talking while crying)
COUNSELOR: [It's all right.] (ph) [crying harder from 0:27:42.9 to 0:29:14.2]
PATIENT: I'm sorry. [still crying from 0:29:14.4 to 0:29:21.4]
COUNSELOR: [You don't have to be sorry that.] (ph) It's good for you to be able to... [inaudible - overlapping weeping] She really wasn't there and you needed her to be there.
PATIENT: I didn't realize that bothered me so much.
COUNSELOR: Sure. [still crying - trying to calm down from 0:29:42.8 to 0:29:59.9]
PATIENT: No wonder I never trust any women. (crying and chuckling)
COUNSELOR: If they're not going to be there for you. [crying from 0:30:08.2 to 0:30:22.4]
PATIENT: I just wonder if my dad did the same thing. I can't understand why I don't trust men then. (still crying)
COUNSELOR: And he went away, too?
PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe it's because he wasn't sick and he didn't keep us. I don't know. [silence from 0:30:45.1 to 0:30:51.3] I can't - all I can think of is maybe, maybe I went to him after she rejected me and he didn't want me either, but I can't think of it. [silence from 0:30:57.9 to 0:31:04.5] [All I can think of...I can think of my foster mother saying it that I never could remember my real father.] (ph) (airplane) This is cute (ph).
COUNSELOR: It's all right. It's really important to get that out.
PATIENT: I never realized that. It never bothered me before until I started talking about that one day where it did bother me and I was only about 11 and I thought, you know, "Well, crazy kid any." Oh. (big sigh) Well I just wish I could think of the rest of it now.
COUNSELOR: That's all right, it will come.
PATIENT: (chuckling and trying not to cry) Oh.
COUNSELOR: That's a long time of being lonely.
PATIENT: (chuckling) Yeah, that's for sure. The funny thing is, is not even realizing that's what it was.
COUNSELOR: Like that's a lot to feel.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. Just...I never, I never, I never linked the two of them, maybe that's why I said I didn't care about my mother. And I felt like I didn't care about her because I felt like...like I, she wasn't there when I needed her. And maybe I was getting back at her. Maybe I felt like, well she probably needs me now, so I'm not going to go. I'm not going to be there either. It might be that. I don't know. Like I really don't know why I don't want to see her, except for maybe that. But I, like I, or I'm afraid I'm going to care about her again and I'm going to feel lonely again because she's not there. She's always going to be in that hospital bed. It feels funny not to...like not to be able to go to your mother and talk to her. I mean I can talk to her, I can tell her things, but she'll just, like she doesn't give me advice. She doesn't even reprimand me. So I think sometimes I would rather have her just reprimand me. Say where she wants - How can I say it?
COUNSELOR: Forgive you anything?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. It's just like she'll say, like I said, I am not a Catholic anymore. Well I know she was a real big...big on Catholicism. She didn't say anything. She didn't say that...it was like she used to say, "I'll pray for you." She didn't even say that. "Well, I'll pray for you." You know at least if she'd say that it would be like, 'Well I care and I don't think what you're doing is right.'
COUNSELOR: Like she doesn't even care about that and that's a big thing for her.
PATIENT: Right. Yeah. And I mean that's going against her principles. Well maybe what she's thinking is I'll either go back to the Catholic Church or - How can I say it? That like after a while I'll come to my senses, which...I won't because I don't believe in it. But I'm just saying that because she's so big on it that...like she wouldn't want her daughter to, what she would believe that I would go to Hell. I mean that's an awful thing to think. That your mother thinks that there's a Hell. She thinks you're going to go there if you don't change your ways and she doesn't do anything about it to try to change your ways. And I remember that one time when I said that to her. - (chuckling) Thank you. - That I didn't...I didn't say anything. I mean she didn't say anything when I said that and I was really expecting something from her. That was one of the times...after that I didn't want to see her that much. I remember I used to get out a little more than that. I'd force myself to get out there someway, you know. And I remember that now and I never did before. But she didn't even care if I would go, in her estimation, to Hell. She didn't care. [0:34:45.0]
COUNSELOR: Even that?
PATIENT: Yeah. And then...like I'd tell her other things. I told her I had, I was going to start to therapy. You know I said, "Don't think I'm crazy, I just got...like some pretty bad hangups that I want to get rid of." And then I tried to say...like I had an idea that it hinged on my father. I'm not so sure now that it was all my father. I think it was partly because that's why I've got a problem with fellows. The problem I have with girls I think came from my mother. And... 
COUNSELOR: It's like you keep going to her and she never gives you anything?
PATIENT: That's what it seems, yeah, it seems like that and...then I think because she's so good that it's got to be me. That I'm...like the black (ph) sheep of the family but...you hit the nail on the head that I really feel like she hasn't given me anything. I go out there and what do I get? You know? Not even, like it used to be it used to mean a lot to me when she said she'd pray for me, because I believe in the same God she does. That there's a God up there...that there's somebody there that will help if you go to Him. And...I don't care what way she does it, whether she says it in Catholic terms and I say it in my own terms or I'll use a Yogi chant or something, it's still the same thing...and she doesn't say that anymore. And... 
COUNSELOR: Like you really want her to know that and somehow you want a closeness between you somehow.
PATIENT: Yeah. I really think maybe I am really looking for somebody...because like my girlfriend said to me, she said, "Well you only got one mother." And I said, "Oh, yeah. Well I've got three of them and none of them really care." You know, like... 
COUNSELOR: It's like pretty awful?
PATIENT: Yeah. Like with Thanksgiving dinner. I got the two stepmothers, neither one of them call me up to ask me if I want a meal. This is like a family affair...you'd feel like you would belong if somebody asked you. Neither one of them asked me if I wanted to come to dinner. My stepsister, who I lived with for a year and a half and she's not even...she's no relation to me but she's more like a sister than anybody that...like I've ever had as a sister, she asked me to come to dinner. Just called me up out of the blue and says, "You know what? Would you like to come to Thanksgiving here?" "Oh." And I said, "No, I'm going to Jodie's mother's." "Oh, well then come to Christmas dinner and invite Jodie along, too." You know, this is like, like I would do this for my sister, you know?
COUNSELOR: But you can't get it from the people you really want to get it from?
PATIENT: That I really want it from, yeah, the people that I really care about. Like I care about my sister but she's got, like she got problems. Her husband's going to college and then like she's not, she's sitting home and she working with some kind of Mex. (ph) or something. And he got on the phone and the way he talked about him like, "Yeah, well it keeps her busy." Like...she's smart, she's really - well she's not smart but she's intelligent and all she has to do is...read quite a bit or get into one or two courses and she could keep up with him but she's as intelligent as he is. But...like she's getting bitter and he's getting...smart-offy, and he's always talking about the things he learns in school and all this stuff...like I know she's got a big problem. And this is another thing, I told - and this came out with Jodie, my girlfriend. She said, "Well why don't you talk to your sister?" I said, "Yeah, I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it." And then I sat down and one day it came out when she said, "Well you've got to talk to your sister." I said, "Look," I says, "I'm as ignorant as she is. How am I supposed to tell her to go to college?" You know? And I gave it up and [then I got widowed] (ph), well here I am. And I know there's something wrong and I knew I could help but I felt so inadequate that...like if I told her - more or less I think I was afraid for me, not for her. I was afraid she'd look at me and say, "Well how the hell do you know? What do you know?" You know? "You're not doing anything either, so how are you supposed to tell me that I am wrong?" You know? "I'm older than you are. I've got three kids..." And this and that...and she'd come out with that. And I, and another thing, I'm afraid, maybe I'm afraid of that she'd take it wrong and she wouldn't like me anymore either, you know? [0:38:29.1]
COUNSELOR: She'd go away, too?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I think maybe that's part of it. That's the most...basically I'm afraid I'm going to hurt, that I'm going like...step on soft ground and then she's not going to care about me anymore either and then...I'd lose her.
COUNSELOR: So you, the world is kind of shaky to you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like you don't know... 
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...where you're getting anything from?
PATIENT: And you don't know - see, I am naive in a lot of ways, too. There's a woman at work that was so nicey-nice to me. And...I used to listen to her problems about her son and I would talk about it. I'm very, I am kind of flippy and that's why she doesn't like me...like I'm into this and I'm into that and I'm working two jobs because I want to go to Europe next year for a month. So I've got to on my salary...I work two jobs and I make as much as a lot of people do with one. And so, when I...when it happens I talk about it and I tend to talk fast like I am now, because...I've got a lot inside that just comes out repetitive, like in spurts. Well I found out like that she didn't like me. And a friend of mine says, "Watch what she says because she goes back to the big boss. She tells him everything. She tells him how long you stay in the classroom, all of this." And here's this woman, nicey-nice to my face and she turns around and she, again, stabs you in the back.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And it keeps re-rising like, "You'd better be watching it or watch it kid. Everybody's like that, better watch it they're going to turn around and stab you in the back." And...it's like I never realized how paranoid I was until things like this happened. That every time I open up just a little bit somebody somewhere turns around and bang, you know?
COUNSELOR: It's just like sticking your tongue in the swimming pool or something and getting drowned...or something like that.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. (chuckling) Right. It's, that's the type of thing it is and that's why, that's part of the reason I don't have a lot of friends. You know like I have, I have Eliza and then I have Jodie, and partially Jodie is very, very good friends with me because she said she went through a lot of the things I did, only she had been through college already when she'd went through it. She's a little bit older. She's like a year to two older than I am.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: And, it's so funny how...like how you feel about people. How you're...like - I really can't explain it. And part of it I think is a paranoia you get because you're afraid to talk to anybody because of the cooks around, and partly because I am too, I'm quite naive in a way and like I have a hard time judging people. And this is like, anybody who is smart enough would've taken a good look. But see, I guess when I'm offered something a lot of times, it's funny, I don't like to tell a lot to the person but sometimes like my things slip out that I don't mean to slip out, things like this when I am talking, and I don't get like a real deep feeling for them. And yet when they do turn on me it bothers me anyway, because see I always think it's me. There's something wrong with me that somebody turns on me. And really like, again, I talked to my girlfriend about this, she says, "Jesus, you're not all that bad. You know there are some people that it's because of them, that they're doing it, not just because of you, you know. Like sometimes it's you because...you're not perfect and sometimes it's them, too. Sometimes they've got a hangup about people..." [0:41:34.0]
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure.
PATIENT: "...and they'll just use anybody."
COUNSELOR: You're saying you didn't get close to them in the first place really?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But then when you turn on them it's all blown up and when you... [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, it's blown out of proportion. It's almost like - because see people who have been real close to me, I've felt like they've turned on me...so, it's mostly just a feeling that everybody's going to turn on you...no matter what you do, no matter who they are, they're going to turn on you.
COUNSELOR: Can you try and get into that? Like there's a lot of truth there I mean.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's for sure. I really don't know the way to word it...like how deep that goes. But I do know that there are times when I will think right away, it's either because of something I - well usually it's because I think it's something I did or something I am lacking, because there's something wrong with me that this doesn't happen or that somebody...did this. And... 
COUNSELOR: It's almost like since people always go away from you like there's no reason to think that.
PATIENT: Yeah, that there's something wrong with me really. That I'm afraid that they're going to turn on me because, either that I'm too easy...like I do - I don't know why this is and why I got very selfish for a while. I wouldn't do anything for people. Because usually it's all that stuff (ph), "Oh ghee, now I've got to do the dishes. Oh, I'll do this. I'll help you out...I'll do this for you." And I got to the point where...like anybody who would turn on me or I would feel was turning on me - I'd hate to do it. If I did something like at home I'd do it begrudgingly and I'd probably do it halfway and things like this, where I was in this like stepparent home.
COUNSELOR: So you're saying they really liked me and I'm going to do those things for them. But then you feel like they're turning away... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and you can't.
PATIENT: Right. It's almost like, either that they're not reciprocating and then like I'm showing that I love them but they're not giving enough back. And then I feel like - sometimes I feel like it's me. You know like, "Jesus, there's something else wrong with me because somebody turned on me." Like this one fellow I met. We were walking down the street - and see, talk about being naive. - and we made a date and he didn't come. Well I went out and I got myself a great big dinner and everything and I gorged myself. This is how I get. And then I stayed up. I didn't cry but I usually do. I usually wait until like everybody's in bed or everybody's away and then I cry because I never want anyone to see me cry, it bothers me too. Not quite so much anymore...like with Jodie I can cry.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But with most people I can't. You know and I can cry with you but there's, most people I could not cry with. I wouldn't cry in front of them. I'd be like, it's almost like that was like a strength in me. You know like I will not let you know that you've hurt me. I will go to my room and I will let myself know that you've hurt me but I will never let you know, because - I guess maybe it's a way, like I'm not going to give you the satisfaction of that. Here I'm going to turn the knife, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like I'm going to give you hurt.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Like with my one stepmother. I think maybe that's part of the reason she started turning away, because I would get to the point - you know now I can see it a little more logically, plus a little less emotionally, but she would yell at me, she would slap me even. Once she hugged me so hard that...like I couldn't stand the pain and I'd cry. I'd just sit and I would stare daggers at her...like I'd look like I hated her guts. [0:44:47.1]
COUNSELOR: That was your power.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. That I won't let you get to me. I won't let you know that you got to me. And then she would, she said one time - one time she, when I first went with her she said, "No matter what I say, I'll always love you and now never forget that." And I said, "Okay." You know because when you're mad a lot of times things slip out and so she was going to warn me. Well one time, she was kind of angry at the time, and see again, it was just my own self mostly, not just her talking, what she said. And she said, "I can't stand the sight of you." I think she even said, 'I hate you.' I'm not sure. She says, "And not matter what I said before about loving you," she said, "well I can't anymore." And...like, "Here we go, ah!" And it was just like I existed for a while and I wasn't really living and it was weird. It was like when I went to that house I would never be home, I'd be at a house...I'd be there, I'd live there but there was nothing... [overlapping voices at 0:45:39.6]
COUNSELOR: [inaudible]...nobody to care about you.
PATIENT: Right. It was that type of thing. There wasn't any warmth at all in the house for me. There was for my brother. See, so it probably wasn't them so much as it was me, you know?
COUNSELOR: So you really were left out and run down?
PATIENT: Yeah, sort of. It was the type of thing it was again, it was...it was again second best, too. You know? And that sort of, it sort of goes back. I don't know, like where it would go like when I was a child. My mother said I was spoiled rotten. This is where I can't understand it because I don't remember it. I remember one Christmas that I didn't get what I wanted. See this is the only time I remember my, when I didn't get what I wanted or what I...really thought I wanted. And I remember I wanted something like a doll or a gun or something sort - I was a tomboy. - and I didn't get it and I remember I felt really bad. And I can remember my mother saying, "But look at all the presents you got." I said, "Well I don't care. I didn't get..." [inaudible - audio buzzing from 0:46:34.7 to 0:46:41.6] I don't know. I can remember saying something, just that I didn't feel like I got as much as he did or he got something that I thought I wanted or something like this, and I can remember that. And sometimes I can just remember when he was mean to me and I thought that was so, really, really...like a weird thing that my mother said he always was so good to me. [inaudible - audio buzzing at 0:46:59.0]... 
COUNSELOR: And what you remember is that you were pretty easily hurt all the time that was happening?
PATIENT: Yeah. Sort of that type of thing, and yet I don't think I even showed it then. Because my mother said I was...like a real ruff and ready and I was real tomboyish and that sort of thing. More than, mostly I didn't show any of them then. I would just go away and pout or something. I pouted very easily but I wouldn't cry and I wouldn't, I wouldn't even look like I was hurt a lot of times people wouldn't know they hurt me.
COUNSELOR: So people couldn't see even then?
PATIENT: Yeah, that I was being hurt because I would either - see I was, I guess I was the type of child who was very - it's harder to love because of that. Because I got hard rather than...like some kids like my one niece, if you hurt her she'll just start to cry right away...and then it's a lot easier, then you just console her and say, "Well what's wrong?" And she'll tell you. Or she'll look so hurt that...it's very evident. You say, "Oh, I must have said something." And then you go over what you said and you wonder how she took it, and then maybe you sit down and talk to her anyway. And she'll come out with it because...she's still open. But rather than being open, I came into a shell...and I just wouldn't talk to anybody, and I got a Case Worker. This is another thing, I remember this. A Case Worker said, "I will never tell anything to your foster mother that is said between us." Well I don't know what it was but I know it got back to her from the Case Worker. So right away I couldn't trust the Case Worker. I thought I finally had somebody here that I could trust. [0:48:31.6]
COUNSELOR: (making blowing sound)
PATIENT: Yeah. Well this is how it went all the time. You know you'd talk to somebody and it will get back to somebody else and you'd think, "Ghee! Now what's wrong?" And... 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible]... 
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And then like I'd go to confession and go to the Priest, right? I'd be afraid to tell him anything. This is why I think there's something there that I'm afraid to tell a man or I'm glad I got a woman...just because I don't think I'd be able to talk to a man like this. I don't think. You know there was something there when I went to confession, whether - that might be part of my problem with me. That I'm sort of afraid to talk to them and I'm sort of - I can't really explain it. - I always feel like I have to be on my best behavior. Not so much like, all right watch your slang and watch things like this if you're out at a nice place with a fellow, okay, fine, all right so you put on that much. It's not really put on that much with me anymore...I've sort of gotten rid of most of my slang words, basically. But, I think I have a very hard time talking to a fellow. Like when I went to confession...like it was supposed to be a cleansing of the soul and all this. And I'd always be afraid, "What is he going to think of me? Jesus, he's going to think I am so terrible if I tell him, like things like..." There were things like, well when I was little I did sort of, it's sort of like a masturbation but it wasn't really. You know I've done that a few times too because...like [I haven't ever been with a man and so that happened] (ph), you know. But at the time I thought it was so terrible...that I couldn't go to confession for a long time. And that was like, I get like a guilt feeling, I'm very skeptical. And I would go...and then I couldn't go to communion. And to me that was a big thing at that time...because I really believed that. That that was the host and that was God and...you bring him into your soul and everything. And... 
COUNSELOR: And then here you've done this bad thing.
PATIENT: Yeah. It was like a thing that I was just...I couldn't tell the Priest because it was so awful. And I thought I was queer and I thought I was...like there was something different and I was afraid. I mean if I looked at a girl I thought, "Oh my God, maybe I'm queer. Wouldn't that be terrible!" You know I really got to feeling like that. I was very afraid to even touch a girl. You know like it was a very weird feeling when I started teaching. My girlfriend says, "Now when somebody gets upset put your hands on their shoulders." "On a girl's shoulders!" You know because I've always been taught, well if you touch a girl then you're queer and you're this. And I really had a feeling like, "My God, there's something wrong with me." Partly because of this and I found out like reading Ann Landers, that like 50 percent of the girls or something do this. Like 80 percent of the fellows. It's perfectly natural and yet...like you're... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...taught that it's such a terrible thing.
COUNSELOR: And somehow you were bad.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. It's like, "Oh, Jesus." And I couldn't go to confession for the longest time and I used to always be afraid that I was in mortal sin...just, oh, it was terrible. What a feeling. Because that...when you believe this you feel like, "If I died I got to go to Hell forever and ever and ever and ever." You know and you think, "Wow! For one thing." And that's pretty funny because I don't even know where the correlation is kind of with the rest of this but that just came into my mind.
COUNSELOR: And you said that there was - I heard you saying there was a thread there that somehow you were always expecting people to see something bad in you. [0:51:38.0]
PATIENT: Yeah, that type of thing. That there was something that would turn me - maybe that's what it would be that...like maybe it even went to the point where I thought God was going to turn away but not really because he knew. I'd talk to Him and say, you know, "Will you forgive me? I'm afraid to go in there to that guy whose supposed to represent you." Because I was afraid...what will he say? And what, maybe he wouldn't - I even had the fear that like maybe he wouldn't forgive it because then I'd have to say that I haven't said it in confession. Maybe he won't forgive it and then I'll be excommunicated and I won't - then what am I going to do? You know and this was the younger child, I was about maybe 12 or 13 or just kind of 14 I think...and then I got a little older and that's when I started getting skeptical. And that was hard for me because see, I started to think a little bit and the more I started to think the more I couldn't believe. And I kept going to Priests and all I'd get out of them was, "Pray. Have faith." You know like, that's like saying...like, 'stop thinking and just believe what I say' you know. And you just get to the point where like...like, should I stay with this that's from my youth or should I take and throw it away and start over? And it's hard to do when - like that was one thing. You know I think part of it too, was I just thought of that. That's sort of like a security that I had because all along I was Catholic...whether I was in this home or I was in that home or I was at my home, at least that was like a security...it ran through. I was a Catholic and...I belonged someplace. I always belonged with the Catholics if nothing else. I just thought of that. I never thought of that before. That that was, I think maybe that was part of it. It was like a security.
COUNSELOR: Something could protect you. Some kind of continuity was there.
PATIENT: Yeah. Partly that and I think partly that would be - that and part of another thing would be, it would be more of an acceptance...if I were Catholic then I would still be accepted among these people that I really wanted to be accepted by. At least it's some area, because I was a good Catholic and I went to church every Sunday, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And you knew that was important to them.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. I think that was part of it too. And then I got away from home and...then I started to think a little bit I said, "Well this isn't so important." Like my one stepsister was married outside the church, so right away she was, I guess excommunicated. So...like she was at that point too and she thinks too, like I said, she's not stupid. She's thought that, she's already decided that there's no Hell. So that's like a punishment you get on earth here and whatever's afterwards has got to be, "It's got to be better than earth!" She said. So, and I agree with her. (chuckling) But... 
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) But it still feels a little scary, right?
PATIENT: It is, yeah. I've thought about that for a while but I don't think death scares me as much as life does...because in death the worse thing that could happen is there isn't anything...like you just may not exist anymore but so what. It's better than pain. It's better than...like a lot of things that you come...in contact with. I mean sure there are nice days. There are good days that you look back on and say, "Ghee, I had so much fun and I really felt like I was happy." But they're very few and far between, you know. And I have, I have a habit of trying to get myself [out of, to it.] (ph) And I know this, like a lot of times I'm not happy at the time. And see, part of this my girlfriend was telling me too, because she took a lot of psychology courses, and then she said, "Do you do a lot of day dreaming?" And I said, "Oh, yeah. I'll see a movie and I'll sit there and I'll think about it for a long time." She said, "Well you know..." Because when she went through therapy, I think this is what she found out that, if because you're not happy at the moment that you've got to...relive other things or because you never really experienced the other one to the fullest, the other experience, so you keep going over and over and over. And I thought... [0:55:09.9]
COUNSELOR: And drain it and drain it for every drop it's worth.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And there's a little bit of happiness so lets get every bit out of it that you can. And...I just started thinking a little bit on that and I said, "Yeah, I've done that a lot." You know put myself into movies and things like in that, a lot of the movies like in Roman times or something like time that or places that were very far away from where I'm at. Like again, I'm not satisfied with what I am, so I have to be something better. Like I have to be a noblewoman or I have to be this and I have to be...like in a completely different situation, where I'm in control. Part of it too, when I am in those I'm always in control. I'm always the one, I'm always the goodie in any kind of a day dream but I'm always in control and I'm always the one that, people come to me...and some of them I might reject and some of them I want. But all the ones I want always want me. I know this is just... 
COUNSELOR: That's like a real opposite... 
PATIENT: Of the way it is in life.
COUNSELOR: ...in you life.
PATIENT: Right. Yeah, because this is the way I'd like it to be and this is the way it is, and I don't like the way it is, you know. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. If you can just be in control then you can pull people to you and you'd always have someone to care about you.
PATIENT: Yeah. This is what I think I went into teaching for in the first place, why it attracted me. But I think like, especially after therapy and after like maybe about another six months or a year after that, when I started to grow that I still will teach because I'm a good teacher and I'm a strong teacher and I can help somebody. And if I do it for that reasoning, because I'm trying to help somebody else, like...open up and to blossom and to, and...like I do just a personal development course, which is...like just basics for girls and there's nothing really to it as far as academically goes. But you might get a little smidgen of things like opera...things like this, just to give people like a little bit of a smidgen in all different areas, and get them interested in whatever they want to be interested in and get them going. And... 
COUNSELOR: But you have that, I mean like there you feel really strong and competent and good about yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that's a really... 
PATIENT: That's a big thing, yeah. I can put up by saying, "Look, I can teach but..."
COUNSELOR: Put it up for the wall and everything... [overlapping voices at 0:57:15.7]
PATIENT: I can teach, right. I can do something... [inaudible] ...and yet I don't have the proof of it because I don't have my own class. I'm still a student teacher and I'm still substituting but I don't have my own class, and my girlfriend has had her class for six months or so and this type of thing. And it's again, it's like I'm still second rate. I think I'm good...I think. (chuckling) You know sometimes I think, "Well maybe I'm not so good. Maybe...like I'm less than a professional or like maybe I'm not this or maybe I'm not that." You know like I have these doubts about myself, but I really think deep down that I could help somebody.
COUNSELOR: So like there you're really satisfied with yourself? [0:57:48.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I don't feel like I'm - I'm not doing it for a selfish thing. Like my girlfriend said she used to do it because of security. "These people need me." You know or something like that. I really don't think so because it bothers me in a way, like one of the students say goodbye and they might smile a little more at one teacher than they do at me, a little bit. But I know why. I do like to be liked by the students. And yet and sometimes I don't really care as long as I see them progressing. Because in a way it's like my...like my child and I'm helping to mold somebody. But in a way it's just because that...I get to sit back and I can watch this. And I think it's beautiful because here's another human being that's starting to find herself and she's not floundering around. And maybe it's because I am and I know it's rotten and it's hard to be that way. And here's she's...she's coming along and she's starting to go someplace and that's great, you know. And yet there's some of the students - it's just stupid see, because I keep going back and forth and up and down. You know again, this is like the floundering (ph) I'm in right now. Like they'll be wanting to advanced students, but I can really say I feel...pretty happy for her. That she's going to Connecticutt, she's going to do some modeling and that she's got a beautiful face, really gorgeous. I think she's going to be in commercials and everything. And the first thing I thought was, well first of all Jodie is going to take her on as another friend, so right away I was a little bit jealous right then. Then I was a little bit jealous because I said, "Well like in pictures my face photographs probably as well as hers or almost...as well as hers." And I thought, "Well how come she got it and I didn't?" Then I said, "Wait a minute girl. She's got it because she's free...in pictures. She can just..." And I took a look at mine again and you know what? And I'm not free. And I know it because I'm not satisfied with myself and I'm not happy with myself and she is, see. And I think most of it wasn't even, it had nothing to do with the modeling. It had nothing to do with, because she was chosen, because it was just the idea. I think I was a little bit jealous because she was free...she was open minded. She could - she didn't care about a lot of people, like that didn't care about her. And it didn't even bother her that I was a little bit jealous. She didn't care because...like if you don't like me, tough (ph) with you, you know.
COUNSELOR: So it was like admiring her and that was one way that you wanted to be maybe?
PATIENT: Yeah, partly. And then that kind of bugged me because she was a student and I was supposed to be a teacher, (chuckling) and here she was...like it was going - see I'm very funny because I like to help a person to a point but then when they start surpassing where I am in certain areas, in a way it bothers me because I'm not doing it. I don't really hate them. It just bothers me because this is, Jesus...like with a little bit of help and they're already through it and then here I am and I'm still floundering around, you know. And this is why I thought I needed more help, because...like I admit too, like a lot of these people had really rotten lives, too. And I always say...I didn't have my own parents and everything and actually she says it's a big excuse...and that's why I am. But there's a lot of people like this girl had such a rotten home life. That before, like Jodie, she was so defensive with everybody. She was unbelievable, even when she started in this school, because...I started teaching her then, unbelievably defensive. She's still a little bit to...like most people. That's, I think that might hurt a little bit too because...like I didn't want her to be defensive with me and she was kind of defensive with me, you know. But she's an unbelievably defensive girl and that, because of her mother that's, oh, Jesus, she was just, she was awful. I think her - I don't know if it was her mother or her father was an alcoholic and...like all, you know what happens when you have an alcoholic in the family, it's just, oh. So I can't blame her, so I think it's just my reaction to that. [1:01:24.9]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it could be worse. (chuckling)
PATIENT: Yeah, right. It's kind of nice to look down and say that it could be worse and then see that she could go so much earlier. So that really what I'm doing is probably I'm just, it's just because there's like a wall yet that I've got to get across and then I'll do the same thing...I'll be blossoming like she did.
COUNSELOR: And you really feel like you can do that and you feel like confident in that?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I can. I think, well now I came to one conclusion like...with my mother that I really, I think, I feel I probably did care and I do care. It's just the idea that she wasn't there and so like I think I'm just trying to...and it never hit me so hard as when it did before that really that's what it was...in that area. That's probably why I think I've got problems with girls so much. Now the fellows (chuckling) is another problem. That's another problem I got to find out, but I think that's pretty well what it is with my mother. So like I'll just have to try to...work that out with her. Maybe what I should do is just be honest with her and come right out and tell her, you know, "Mom, why didn't you say something? This is the way I took it." See because she's very mature in that way and I don't think she'd take it in such a terrible way that I would think she really might...like a trauma or something for her.
COUNSELOR: It sounds good to get it out in the open you know.
PATIENT: I think it might be the best idea because...like I take things and I'm kind of silly, because like Jodie says too, "If something hurts you don't pussyfoot around, tell me about it. You know, don't be getting it down deep inside of you like that because it's...it's just going to, finally it's going to explode. But while it's doing that you're...you're getting like very defensive towards each other and there's little petty things going on...and it's stupid."
COUNSELOR: As long as you don't get it out in the air then it comes out in other ways.
PATIENT: Yeah. And that's almost like - we saw the Odd Couple. I don't know if you ever say that? And I mean it was so funny because of those two fellows, but like one was like the housewife that was...I don't know, she was like a cleaning addict and all sorts of things...and they just got on each other's nerves. And instead of just coming clean, right out in the open, they'd do all these little devious little things...to hurt each other. And that's when I went, "Gheese!" You know and I can see that in my sister and my brother-in-law, how that get back. How she's bitter because he's going to college and how he's just - and I said I'm probably the same way. That I get very, I get very hard. My voice gets very hard and I can tell it, even in myself, because it shocks me. I said, "What's this, the thing here?" You know? I can tell the therapist but like what do I do about it, you know? That's the problem. We went to Atlantic City and I was like that. I just, I felt like I was not included because they were, the two girlfriends and I was there, my two best friends, they were talking about a trip they were taking. So I'm not taking the trip with them. So I felt like here I am and I'm walking with you and you two are talking and I'm sitting...here I am.
COUNSELOR: [So you have the question of like maybe on how to act on the way you feel?] (ph) [1:04:12.8]
PATIENT: Yeah. That's part of it. And that's, well we brought that out in the open finally and...and I said that I felt like that. And then they said, "Well you have to get yourself included. You can't expect us to always include you. And you can't expect us to always know that we're hurting you if you don't come right out and say...like, 'Why don't you change the subject?' Or ask about it if you're interested in the country or something like this, you know?" And I said to myself, "Well, yeah." And I'm just...again, it's like I am feeling rejected and...like maybe I almost want to feel rejected. I don't know. You know, it's a weird type thing. And I still, like I said, I think maybe that's because of, well the way I took some of the things that my mother did and some of the things that she said maybe. Or just because she left and I needed her and she wasn't there. You know, as simple as that. My father, I don't know. That's very funny. I know he, there must have been something more. I mean I don't care if he worked nights, I've got to remember more than one incident with my father. There's got to be more than that if I try.
COUNSELOR: Like there's this whole unexplored thing with him.
PATIENT: Yeah. My father is just like... 
COUNSELOR: A blank where... [inaudible at 1:05:20.3]
PATIENT: ...I didn't even know him. It's weird and I know I - I'd have to have - there's got to be weekends or something he'd be around, you know? And so that I've got to...trying to think on and that, but I tell you now, to get it out in the open, like what's wrong with my father, not...talking with my father.
COUNSELOR: Well now our time is up.
PATIENT: Okay. (chuckling) I don't think my mind can take any more of [you and me] (ph) today. Ah! Oh, like whoa, I'll tell you trying to get down to the basic is like a heck of a run (ph), you know.
COUNSELOR: [1:05:53.4 - blank and then inaudible whispering]
PATIENT: Thank you.
COUNSELOR: And that's just Wednesday?
PATIENT: Yeah. Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: See you.
PATIENT: Right. [We've got to get a drink sometime.] (ph) [1:06:42.4]
END TRANSCRIPT
