TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hey.
CLIENT: Hi. So the door's to the lobby on the A level is locked. What's the best way to get up here?
THERAPIST: The door that's by the stairways?
CLIENT: Yep. I mean, I went down through the basement of the FedEx and came up by the elevator. I usually come in through the lobby (inaudible at 00:23).
THERAPIST: Oh OK, I see...
CLIENT: So (inaudible at 00:24) on the side street, as opposed to (inaudible at 00:27)
THERAPIST: Right, right, right. OK, then what you do is you press the code into the keypad there, which apparently I have not given you yet. I apologize for it.
CLIENT: That's OK.
THERAPIST: I can tell it to you or I can text it to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, you can text it to me.
THERAPIST: OK, [let me do it right now] (ph).
CLIENT: Oh, then how do I get out (laughs) after one of these session? Because last Thursday the elevator wouldn't open on L and then I went into the FedEx, but the doors from the FedEx to the street was locked—they were already closed.
THERAPIST: Right [I see] (ph). OK. So, OK. Is your phone number still 508 something? [00:01:05]
CLIENT: Well (ph) yeah.
THERAPIST: OK. All right.
CLIENT: Yeah, I (inaudible at 01:09) FedEx employee who was cashing out the register to let me out.
THERAPIST: Outer door code is (pause) # [inaudible].
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: You're welcome. And totally ignore the thing where it says that you can, like, page me or call me or whatever, because you can't.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Let's see. The way to get out, I would take the stairs down and just go out the front door. On a couple of occasions over the years where they've actually locked it so you can't get out from the inside, which is bad, fire hazard wise, but (pause), like, almost all the time you can. So just go down the stairs to the lobby and then go out those doors. If that front door is ever locked, what you can do is on the far staircase—so the one not by the women's room—02:11) not by the women's room, but the men's room kind of, the end of the horseshoe hallway there? When you get down to the lobby, you can take a—go through the door on the right, which would take you into the lobby. If you go to the left, it will take you into a little courtyard next to the building. And I've never had an experience (inaudible at 02:32) be locked. [00:02:31]
CLIENT: OK, cool.
THERAPIST: Sorry for the...
CLIENT: No worries.
THERAPIST: ...pain in the ass (inaudible at 02:38)
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 02:48)
CLIENT: I don't know. (Sighs) I can't shake the feeling that I'm not good at my job. That's just—everything is hard and nothing is getting easier and I'm behind the rest of my team on getting deliverables out. Seeing how there's five of us and we each own one block and our five blocks make up a component and our component may (ph) have a gap chart that shows when everything should be done. There is milestones and I'm behind 03:22). And I haven't missed a deadline, but I'm behind everyone else and that's frustrating. And I keep needing to ask for help and I keep getting frustrated and going and goofing off on the Internet, instead of pushing through the frustration. And (pause) I don't know. I keep—by the end of the day, I'm just completely worn out and miserable and just not wanting to live anymore. And that's very upsetting. [00:03:50]
(Crying) I'm also really worried that I would get fired for being a bad employee, even though Dave tells me that that's completely unreasonable and has no basis in reality. Like, that fear consumes, like, a pretty big percent of my thoughts.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Well (pause) that's all very important, I'm just not yet sure what to say about it. [00:04:47] (Pause) Yeah, that (pause) I'm not sure yet what to say that might be helpful.
(silence)
What else [pops into your head] (ph)?
CLIENT: (Sighs)
THERAPIST: [I mean] (ph), about that or just whatever.
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. I'm kind of drawing a blank again. I feel guilty about that. [00:05:48]
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: Well, (pause) it's not as if I have trouble coming up with things to think about or things to say in other context, so I feel—well, maybe guilty was the wrong word, but more embarrassed that I can't think of anything to talk about.
THERAPIST: Is it that things occur to you that you don't want to talk about, or that you don't seem important enough to you worth talking about? Or that your mind quite literally goes blank? I mean, that happens.
CLIENT: I mean, it's pretty blank. I guess when I sit in here, I can't think of anything in my mind because it's blank, it's not, you know, blank in the Zen meditative sense, but blank in the sense that there are these kind of random fragment of thoughts that just skitter past, but aren't really what I'm thinking about. Does that make sense? So, things like, you know, there's a jingle for an advertisement for the radio stuck in my head and playing kind of on loop when I'm not thinking about anything else but that's... [00:06:56]
THERAPIST: I don't think it consciously feels this way to you, but I wonder if at another level (pause) there's any feeling of, like, a stalemate between us where (pause), you know, you just said some things that are quite important and quite (pause) powerful really. And I have responded with, "I don't know what I'm going to say to this] (ph)."
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: And, you know, tell me something else. And, again, I know this is not sort of common (ph) to where you're coming from or, like, (pause) but I wonder if there's some (inaudible at 07:47) (laughs) of, like, "No."
CLIENT: (Laughs) It might be, I don't know. [00:07:54]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 07:57) didn't hear what you said. No. (Pause) Which (inaudible at 08:17) that it might be a bit (pause) frustrating or a bit of a disappointment when I don't really do anything like what you've already done. I don't really have much of a response to it.
CLIENT: Right. [00:08:53] I don't know, I think (pause) it's more of a (pause) I'm upset with myself for just dropping this conversational bomb that, you know, wow. Just drop this bomb that was so whatever that, you know, even a professional psychiatrist or psychologist can't think of anything to say to it. What the fuck is wrong with me? So, you know. You're right in that it might be a reaction to the silence but not a strike at you.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I see. So, in the way, you know, it's such a bomb that I don't know. What is that? I do know what a bomb is but what did you mean by that, that it's because it's such a bomb that I don't know what to say?
CLIENT: It's just (pause) maybe not that, but I'm being really frustratingly vague right now, even inside my own head. I don't really know how to put things together. [00:10:01]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 10:01) sort of dramatic? Or like you (pause) [have something to say] (ph) and...
CLIENT: No, just that it's (pause)—not (inaudible at 10:17), definitely not that connotation, but more, like, (pause) kind of an impenetrable dense wall of suck that can't be taken apart.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: [I'm so over it] (ph).
THERAPIST: So I'm like almost a bit overwhelmed by the suck.
CLIENT: Yep. Especially since it's more or less the same suck week after week, and I'm not really seeing any change. (Sighs).
THERAPIST: Which I guess further suggest my (inaudible at 11:02)?
(silence)
CLIENT: These questions are easier for me when there is, you know, something obvious to talk about. Like, the conversation with my parents, that reminds me of all of the horrible things they've ever done because at least there's, you know, (inaudible at 11:35) conversation. Like, (pause) these meta (ph) conversations are not particularly enjoyable for me. (Pause) I realize they're necessary, but that doesn't make them any more (inaudible at 11:55)
THERAPIST: What is it you don't like about them?
CLIENT: (Pause) I end up feeling far more self conscious during this meta (ph) conversations about conversations. I like it more when we're actually talking about issues, if that makes any sense.
THERAPIST: Yep. (Pause) I—this may already be clear, but I'll say it in case it isn't—I think they're important. I think (pause) they give us a chance to get (inaudible at 12:41) more directly into things you're struggling with.
CLIENT: How so?
THERAPIST: Well (pause) what we're talking about is pretty close to what happens when you're at work, around your productivity there. [00:13:01]
CLIENT: [Yeah I know] (ph).
THERAPIST: And (pause) you can't have this kind of—I mean, you could I guess, but, you know, you can't really have this kind of conversation with your work or your boss. But you can with me, as much as it sucks. And (pause) it's often (pause) easier in one way—though I know more kind of charged and difficult in another sense—to understand what sorts of emotions and fantasies really are at play in how you act...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 14:03)
THERAPIST: ...when we're sort of talking about something you're doing here. (Pause) Yeah, but (pause) and I guess (pause) I'm not sure what you're worried about in feeling self-conscious, but I suspect it has something to do with being found by me or by you yourself to be, like, wanting in some fashion, or (pause) (inaudible at 15:10) as well, but you refer to self-consciousness (inaudible at 15:16) emotions (inaudible at 15:20). But (pause) again, I mean, I pretty sure that it feels crummy to feel that way—self conscious—but, you know, if it did make you feel bad about yourself, again, that would be something we could look at it because it would be likely (pause), you know, sort of important what led you to feel that way and why (inaudible at 16:10), stuff like that.
(silence)
It seems (pause) possible to me that (pause)—OK. So, this isn't something that, again, I think you're (inaudible at 17:04). And you unconsciously, like, clearly, you come here to get better.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 17:15) understood. But it wouldn't surprise me given the number of things that we've talked about if you also sometimes start with something that you know is (inaudible at 17:27) that's going to lead you to feel like you're styminging (ph) me.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Like (pause), again, it seems plausible to me that growing up with parents like you had and having the sort of problems that you have at work (pause), you (pause) sort of—my experience, like, some opposition or, like, conflict or—how do I say it. Like, (pause) and at one level you can feel as if, like, you're in a fight or a disagreement and that you, like, put stuff out there that, you know, can shut things down. I mean, like, growing up with (inaudible at 18:37) dad like yours, I sort of imagine this, if it's true, as being a kind of a survival tactic, like, you just need pretty industrial strength measures to, like, try to ward off what's getting thrown at you all the time.
So again, if this is (inaudible at 19:03), I would see it, you know, as a kind of (pause) something that could [rattle that] (ph), in which (pause), again, (inaudible at 19:28) what's going on could be one of the things that's getting in your way at work. You know, that you're (pause) at one level though clearly not at others (pause) interested in your proposing what your boss wants you to do or (pause) starting progress your boss is interested in making. Unfortunately, mostly at your own expense. But (pause) in a way, that's maybe unconsciously something out a bit. But I'm not wedded (ph) to this.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 20:12) That's a good hypothesis, though I'm not really sure how to test and verify it.
THERAPIST: Sure, sure. (Pause) Well, it's the same old boring thing for me. Just, like...
CLIENT: The talking? Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, whatever comes to mind. I mean, often (pause)—I don't know if I could be considered to be a little bit subjective (ph) of that, like, (pause) often in therapy, you know, one's responses to—we call that an interpretation (pause), it's like, (pause) if it's about an unconscious dynamic then it's usually not going to be something you consciously sort of agree with or disagree with, you know, in a (inaudible at 21:21) way, because that's not—I mean, right?
So usually, it's like the nature of the way one responses that's partly (pause) embarrassed on, (pause) whether it can be useful (inaudible at 21:42) look at things. So, for example, (pause) you say to like a little kid, "You know, maybe now would be a good time to go clean your room." And they go, "Waaaah," you know, or whatever. Like, there's a reaction—it's not about, well, you know, I don't think it would be a good idea right now to go clean my room, you know. It's, like, a different level of response with being dead and (pause), I mean, for anybody, that's often what, you know, (inaudible at 22:18) about. (inaudible at 22:30).
So what else do you have?
CLIENT: What else do I have. (Pause) Still frustrated of work, that doesn't change. More frustrated with myself than the job. (Pause) I managed to get to choir practice early yesterday. Traffic was just miraculously good. I usually get there, you know, right on the nose, starting time, walk in at the beginning of warm-ups. So I was there early and our choir director just had me sing scales for him by myself, which I felt horribly embarrassing and I was ridiculously self-conscious and kept apologizing at the end of every set for being terrible. And Ashby (sp?) kept reassuring me that, you know, most of the time I was absolutely perfect in finding the right notes and he pointed out, you know, in small (inaudible at 23:42) and I had trouble zoning in on the correct note at the very beginning before I found the right place. But I was just so painfully self-conscious that by the time other people started walking in I really just wanted to leave and go home. And I didn't, but (pause) so.
And then Ashby (sp?) moves me up another section. So instead of singing the low soprano part elsewhere (ph) doing a bunch of pieces with divided sopranos and divided altos. So, like, eight parts instead of four parts. So he moved me up into the highest sopranos, whereas when I started signing with this choir I was with the low altos. So I don't know what's going on. This is all very confusing to me, but (pause). Ashby (sp?) says that, you know, it's because I, like, sung more and practiced more, I'd gain better control (inaudible at 24:42) with greater control, I just produce more sound than the higher ranges. So I (inaudible at 24:48) lower ranges, I don't know. He also suggests that I should take lessons and get more training, which is (inaudible at 24:58) thing, wanting to do for a while, but just buying the time.
THERAPIST: Do you enjoy it?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's funny, when I was a little, little kid I loved to sing. And then (pause)—all right, there were a bunch of small incidents that happened all in a row that led to me deciding that I can't sing and then refusing to sing for, you know, 15 years. But, let's see. There was the—in second grade we had to learn the Star-Spangled Banner for a school recital or something. And I was practicing at home with my mom and she kept telling me that I was flat and sounded horrible and to stop singing off-key, as if—I didn't even know what that meant.
And, you know, the horrible thing is, in hindsight, my mom has a terrible, terrible voice and she can't carry a tune if you put in a suitcase for her and—like, she'll deliberately sing off-key and horribly just to distract from the fact that she can't find the right key to save her life. So (laughs), you know, perhaps I shouldn't have taken her judgment so seriously but, you know, I was eight so whatever. And, you know, then was mocked by classmates for singing poorly Christmas music in the third grade. Mostly because I didn't know the words, because I wasn't raised Christian. So I just sang all the wrong words to Silent Night because I was (inaudible at 26:30). We were just expected to learn them, we weren't given the words. It was pretty terrible.
(inaudible at 26:38) fifth grade, I was going to a Catholic school and we had Friday Mass every Friday morning and choir practice Thursday afternoons. And...
THERAPIST: That's too strong a way of putting what actually happened?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was pretty disorganized and terrible but the—well, long story short, there was a weekly rotation where every Friday a different homeroom class would get to sit on the altar in the choir stalls and be the choir for Friday Mass. And our music teacher pulled me aside one Thursday after choir practice and told me, "Just lip sync during Mass tomorrow, because you sound so terrible." Yeah. And that was why I just said that I would never sing again.
So yeah, when I started going to the church six years ago, you know, I was invited to give a testimony and Ashby (sp?), the choir director, came up to me afterwards and said that he loved my speaking voice and he loved my oratorical style and would I please audition for the choir. I was like, "Oh no, I don't sing." He was like, "I don't believe you. You can sing." I was like, "Uh, no. I have never sung, ever." But he had to drag me kicking and screaming into the choir. [00:28:00]
But I'm still horribly self-conscious.
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's definitely for the best. I really enjoy it. It's possibly my favorite part, but (inaudible at 28:09) being in the choir.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 28:12) really self-conscious?
CLIENT: And being asked to sing a solo is really, really painful. I actually do have a solo this Sunday.
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: Convinced I will screw it up, but that's OK because other soloists also screw up. There's soloists all the time because we're (inaudible at 28:35) choir and Ashby (sp?) doesn't care if you don't have perfect pitch (inaudible at 28:43). (pause) But yeah, since we were talking about me being self-conscious earlier, I was, like, yeah, he reminded me of that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I imagine you're worried you're essentially (pause) when you put yourself [out there] (ph) you're going to get whacked (pause) in a pretty humiliating way. (pause) Which (pause), I mean, I think there's a lot of other stories that really fits. But for starters (pause), you know, (inaudible at 29:44) try not to be so much more a reflection of (pause), you know, being badly treated starting with your mother who was herself really couldn't nearly have known at the time that (inaudible at 29:59) off-key.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: So your decision, with which I imagine was probably (pause) three parts, "I'm not subjecting myself to this anymore," and one part, "Fuck you all."
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (Laughs) That you would never sing again.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, which would be the perfect (inaudible at 30:33). (Pause) And...
CLIENT: I'm a little sad how much I missed out. I, like, I could have sung in the performance chorus in college. I could've maybe (ph) joined the Drama Guild. There's all kind of things I could've done if I had (inaudible at 30:58). Convinced that I can't sing and that no one wants to listen to me anyway.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's, like, something you would've enjoyed, that you would've, like, felt good about.
CLIENT: I love music, I love to sing, especially in the church context where there's an offset of community service to the performance. And then there's—I'm not quite sure how to put into words, but it's definitely a—there's definitely a spiritual component to it as well. It's just so wonderful. I missed out for so long because the adults around me when I was a child were all fucking assholes and it's not fair. [00:31:50]
THERAPIST: Not in the slightest.
CLIENT: Like, who tells a ten year old lip sync during Friday Mass? When no one's going to be in the church anyway except other students at the school because who goes to Friday Mass except, you know, kids who are forced to.
THERAPIST: Right. I think (inaudible at 32:10) the teacher was an asshole.
CLIENT: (Laughs). (inaudible at 32:19) of the school where the cheerleading coach/math teacher used to make fun of my haircut in class in front of other students.
THERAPIST: Oh god.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was (pause)—it was pretty terrible.
THERAPIST: Sounds (ph) very terrible.
(silence)
I wonder if it's so terrible that it echoed in kind of the things you heard at home, you know, like (pause) sometimes the things feel better even things are really bad at home. Like, you know, (inaudible at 33:01) nice and reasonable grownups in school and get a little perspective early that not everything is like it is at home, you know, but clearly that's not—you didn't happen to be lucky enough for that to happen.
CLIENT: I also never stayed in one place long enough for the teachers to get to know me. I mean, I haven't (ph) taught Sunday school at my church for a couple years before I just didn't have time for it anymore, knowing some teachers. Though it takes time to figure out, you know, what's just a kid being, you know, slightly outside the average for, you know, childhood weirdness and what's—there's actually a serious problem going on at home, right? Like, it's—I changed schools pretty much every year, so no one...
THERAPIST: Attempted to really figure it out.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean, in high school I went to the same school for four years and by my third year, my guidance counselor and my homeroom teacher and a couple other teachers who I had who knew me from various competitions I was in were starting to get an inkling of how very fucked up my family life was, but, you know, by then I was 16 and already planning my escape and it was—a lot of selections (ph) had already been internalized by that point.
THERAPIST: Right. (Pause) Were they able to be helpful to you at all?
CLIENT: (Sighs) Kind of. I mean, the school I went to had its own pathology. One teacher, I remembered. I hate her, still hate her. But she admitted, you know, years after the fact at my five year high school reunion that she deliberately played mind games with the students on her team...
THERAPIST: Oh, (inaudible at 35:04) like...
CLIENT: The cycle of (inaudible at 35:05), yeah. She, you know, would start rumors or encourage students to befriend or anti-befriend other students in order to get the best performance out of us. So, you know, she was also, you know, very vocal about telling me that my parents were not normal and that this is not how normal families operate. I don't think, in the end, on balance, she did me any favors.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Pause) We're going to stop for now, but we'll talk more (inaudible at 35:43)
CLIENT: Yep.
(background noise)
END TRANSCRIPT
