TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 0735-103, 0735-103, Session number 19.
COUNSELOR: Hot?
PATIENT: No, just tired.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 00:25)
COUNSELOR: You and me both. 
PATIENT: My vitamin pills gave out or something. Let's see, when was I in here last? 
COUNSELOR: Last Friday? Yeah, last Friday.
PATIENT: Was it Friday? It sure has been a lot of water under the bridge since last Friday. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. Really?
PATIENT: I thought I was in last Wednesday or something and everything that was happening had a little more time to happen. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Guess it doesn't take that long. So I'll start at last Friday and go on from there. Really, I guess I'll start on Saturday morning. Got up to find our gas was cut off. It was my wife's decision that the gas bill should be put off a month because she didn't have the money to pay it. The gas company didn't see it that way. They had sent her final notices, you know. Pay up or else. She, anything after the 15th of the month, like I told the guy, it gets put in a little file and we take care of it the first of the month. I said, after the 15th of the month we're just living on borrowed time anyhow. So don't think you're going to get any money out of us between the 15th and the 31st. 0:02:10.2
So, she had disregarded their final notices. They came out Friday and shut our gas off and put a little wire thing on it. So Saturday morning I said, well that is no problem. We'll mail them the payment since I got my check Friday. And I'll go out and I'll turn the gas back on and light the pilot lights. I called and hollered at them a little bit you know. So that is what I did. I turned the gas back on. Sunday went by. Monday morning, got up and she and I and the oldest girl took off to the camp out thing we had planned. Left the two younger kids and the babysitter there. Went out there, came back Tuesday morning. The gas company had come out Monday afternoon and since there was just the babysitter and the two kids there, they decided to wait until Tuesday morning to cut it off. So they wouldn't freeze or something, I suppose.
 So they had just been out there before we got home and taken out part of the meter, see? So I called and I raised holy hell with them. The guy said I would have to go to one of their places and write them out a check. And the place would have to call them and let them know that it was paid, you know. And then they'd have to get it on the schedule. And I supposed they got it back this morning. I called and the babysitter said that they had come out and turned it back on and put the meter back together. Last night I was in such a mood that I was going to play games with them all night. But my wife convinced me that it wouldn't accomplish anything. 
Every hour or so I was going out and taking the cap off the gas line and turn it on and call the emergency crew. You know, you've got to come over here and shut this gas off. When they got tired of fucking around with it, maybe they'd put the regulator back in and put the gas on and we'd all be happy. But she decided, she convinced me that that wouldn't accomplish anything. So I didn't do that. But that, along with some other things, I'm sure glad I don't own a pistol. 0:04:02.7
COUNSELOR: You were pretty mad.
PATIENT: I don't know what I'd do to myself if I had the opportunity. This bill problem, I'm going, one of these days I'm going to invite all the bill people that send us bills every month to some place and I'm going get them inside and lock the door. Get me a nice table up front with butcher knives on it, you know. Stand up there and say "Here I am. You can have me. Bang. You cut everything. Just get up here and fight it out. Get what you can because this, is all you're going to get."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And so this bill thing. It isn't just money worries. It is like in a sense you carry it all because you feel like you ought to be making enough to pay for the bills. 
PATIENT: I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: And it makes you think of shooting yourself. 
PATIENT: I know one thing. If my wife and the kids were to leave me, I'd just pack up and disappear. And the bill collectors could go screw themselves. Because if she was to leave me, that'd be all. The living end. I'd just make a disappearance. I don't know where the hell I'd go. And I don't know what I'd do. But I'd go. Besides that, my back has been bothering me. That makes me none the more happier. Or whatever you want to call it. 
And I've got a kind of, I don't know. My mind was, we went out to this nudist camp, you know. The couple that we were staying with went "Now, this, is all on the up and up." No touching, all this, you know. Fine. Well, Monday afternoon we were all just trotting around in different directions not staying together too much. I was up playing some volleyball. And my wife came up there afterwards and we went and took a swim and everything. And she was telling me about this guy, couple we had swung with before and everything. They had gone over to see a little tent that some friends of theirs, they'd met some people out there and they'd been swinging with them and everything. So we found out this wasn't really what they had said at first. It was more or less of a gay old party time out there at certain times. 0:06:39.8
So this goes into my mind, you know, a certain way. Well, maybe tonight will be kinda interesting, you know? See what can be arranged. So, came nightfall and nothing happened you know. My wife says go to sleep. You know, go away. Which didn't help anything. So this kinda worked on me in an adverse way. And I came back thinking, "Well I kinda think she still wants that divorce so she can find something more interesting." So, all I can say is if she does get the divorce and takes the kids and goes, well I'm leaving too. And I don't know where the hell I'm going because nobody is going to know. I'm not going to know myself. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. But that really..
PATIENT: The hell with everything.
COUNSELOR: Hmm. That really got you when she said "Go to sleep."
PATIENT: If she doesn't want me, nobody wants me, in my opinion.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: I don't think I finished that story, did I? Her and this guy went over to the tent and he made passes at her, you know? And she said no. So we kinda thought that maybe that night, you know, there'd be something going on. We were all sleeping right there in beds next to each other. I left out that part I think. 0:08:26.6
COUNSELOR: And I guess you heard from her, when she said she said that she didn't want you sexually, or maybe that she didn't want you period?
PATIENT: That is the way I took it. I don't think she meant it that way really, but that is the way I took it. And being already kinda, you know this gas company thing kinda had me already down. And when she kinda kicked me why that didn't, didn't go right, so. Maybe it will all be over in a couple of weeks. 
Oh, the other night I was driving around, well it was last night I guess. Yeah. I had a few dollars in my pocket. I had told her before, I think I'll just take off and go and then you can straighten it out and do whatever you want to. And she said no, you know, she didn't want me doing that. And I think the only reason that she doesn't want me to do something like that is because it would leave her with all these damn bills. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. So you feel like you're only a convenience to her.
PATIENT: If that. But I had a few dollars in my pocket last night and I think it, there is only one thing stopping me. I'd get in that car and I'd take off and keep going but for the fact that the car is not paid for. And I'm really not that much of a scrounge. If the car had been all paid for or something, and I wouldn't have had that finance company come looking for me. Why I might have just taken that car and taken off. 0:10:19.1
But I got out and got a babysitter. I thought I had a scout meeting over at the church. Got over there and they decided they weren't going to have it until a week from last night. So, I was taking care of a little Cub Scout business. You know, talked to the guy that is in charge of the group that was supposed to meet last night. Talked to the guy that is in charge of the scouts. Trying to get a thing rounded up there, you know. And it kinda got my mind off of things and I got to feeling better. By the time I came home at 9:30 I was feeling much better, you know, mentally. But, to get up this morning and not have any hot water. And this kinda brings back, well you know, you've just got away from it for a couple of hours maybe. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: She didn't accept it the way, nudism, the way that I thought she would either, you know. We got out there the other day, 10:00 or so. A little bit cool. I went in the trailer, you know, got my clothes off and went out by the lake, sat down, and started sunning. I got sunburned in places I never thought I'd be sunburned. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I imagine. 
PATIENT: And, my little girl didn't take to it too much but she eventually, after a few minutes, she got her clothes off and got to running around, you know. It is just a matter of setting your mind to the fact that it is not odd. Because everybody is doing it out there, see? 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
PATIENT: So my wife, for a while there, she wouldn't. She sat down in the trailer and talked to the people we went to visit, you know. And didn't make any moves at getting undressed. And so I was kinda pushing her and that didn't set with her maybe too well. Finally after I'd been out there by the lake for a while, she came out and she still had her clothes on, you know, it looked like. And so eventually why she sat down and her dress came up a little bit and I saw she had at least taken her panties off. That was the first step, I guess. But after a while she finally got her dress off and got in the mood, I guess you'd say or something. To me, I took to it like a duck to water. But I thought she would take it more that way than she did. So this was kind of a, I don't know. It wasn't a set back or anything like that. It is just odd that I thought she'd take to it and she didn't. 0:12:44.6
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Yeah, but some of the time, you've really been feeling low also. Like there just isn't that much left for you.
PATIENT: It looks that way. I think I'm actually looking up to low. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: I tried to talk to the daughter about it. She can take it or leave it, you know. Tried to talk to my wife about it. She just doesn't want to talk about it. She, ok, we went out there and visited. Did it. That is it. Forget it. Type of attitude, you know?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And, I don't know, it just kind of worked on me. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. I don't understand. 
PATIENT: Like I say, I guess she didn't take to it as well as I thought she would and I was kind of disappointed. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Like you'd been hoping this could be sort of an interesting exciting thing you'd be doing together. 
PATIENT: I guess. I came in this morning and I had written a report about this little trip I took out to Massachusetts the other day. And I kinda half way explained some of the things that weren't actually in the written report. And told them that in two words, or three words or whatever it is, the manager out there just hit the ceiling whenever I told him about this. He immediately said, well I should have gone in and checked with the plant manager before I started doing this. And then I got to thinking about it about 30 minutes later. Why in the hell should I have gone in and checked with him? He should have checked with him before I ever went out there. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.0:14:49.8
PATIENT: But I haven't' had the guts to go in and tell him. I think when I get back I'm going to have a little bit of a confrontation with him because he gave me a kind of funny look when I walked out the door. Like oh hell, you've got to go to that again? I'm going to tell him just exactly what I've said here today about if my wife comes in and says she wants a divorce in the next two weeks and when things all get settled out, I'll be gone and he won't have to worry about me anymore. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. You will remove yourself from the scene. You'll let them all carry the bag. 
PATIENT: Quit worrying about his God dammed mistakes and let him just fight it out by himself. I just don't think there is anybody who can help me. I have almost in my mind completely resigned myself from church activities. I just don't give a damn if I ever go to church again. Last night, there was some of these kids I saw, they're not necessarily Cub Scouts but some of the other kids that I know around here. They kinda cheered me up, I guess you might say. Kids are, they'll tell you what they think of you. They don't pull any punches. It is the God damned adults that will come around and stab you in the back. And I don't know, adults just aren't worth fighting with. The only thing I can see that is worthwhile in life is helping a kid. Not only, not only my kids. Other kids. But the God dammed adults, they're not worth it. 0:16:39.9
So I guess it is kinda disappointing for me to come in the next to last session and say it didn't take? 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. Yeah. 
PATIENT: Just write it off to profit and loss, loss division. 
COUNSELOR: Because here you are feeling really miserable. And things looking awfully bad. 
PATIENT: This back problem. The nurse keeps saying, "Well, you've got to go to a bone specialist and see if he can do something about that bone." So I went in this morning to get the heat lamp put on my back and see if that would help any. The little nurse, the regular nurse, is out on vacation. And the other nurse doesn't, well she is just filling in, you know how that is. I don't know I kinda half way thought maybe she could recommend somebody that I can go see. Maybe I'll see what I can do about this back and get started on that problem. But I don't think that would accomplish anything. Get to feeling better and get my back straightened out and get to feeling better, that'd just be another bill I'd have to worry about. 0:18:29.6
COUNSELOR: Hmm. Like feeling better almost isn't worth it. 
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Like I said if feeling better means another bill, to hell with it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. From what you say, it sounds almost like you're sitting there sort of knowing that the boom is going to be lowering. You're just sort of waiting for it to come. 
PATIENT: I'm trying to figure out if I can jump out of the way in time. Like I say, I've gotten to the point where I just can't see any hope at all. What I keep looking for is a fresh start some place, in some way. I'd like to have everything just wiped clean and start all over again. But I guess there is no way of doing that. In my mind, I keep looking for somebody to blame it on. Like last night I was thinking, well it is all my folks fault. They never did teach me how to pay bills, you know they. I guess you might say I led a sheltered life or something, I don't know. As far as I'm concerned, my folks never taught me anything. 0:20:10.2
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it really kind of undermines you in terms of not to be able to pay the bills. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean even if there was some way that I could see that things were getting better would help, but. The guy at the gas company said, "Well for the last ten months you people have just been paying your bills after a final notice. And not only that," he says, "we're going to have a 75 dollar deposit just to turn your gas back on." I said, "Well, buddy, you do and you're going to have one hell of a time trying to find 75 dollars when we can't even pay our bill." Finally got him to say if we paid our bill up to date, well he'd turn our gas back on. 
I asked my wife last night, I said "Well did you learn anything?" She said, "What do you mean?" I said, "Well, you just don't fuck with the people who can turn your gas, electricity or water off. Pay them and then pay the other people." It seems like it is getting to the point where every week there is somebody calling and saying, "Well look, I've been trying to get you to pay this bill for a month, or two, or six, or a year or something. And you haven't made any progress." 
COUNSELOR: They keep after you and, I don't know, it is sort of humiliating or something. 
PATIENT: Downgrading. It goes back to that thing where I was talking about I think I'd regained my masculinity. Well, I think I've lost it again. I'm sure there's people getting by on what I'm making. How in the hell are they doing it? There's people getting by on less than what I'm making. How the hell are they doing it? Like I say, I wish I could wipe the slate clean, go back, and start all over again. Not just on the bills, on everything. 0:22:37.1
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like up to now your whole life is such a mess. 
PATIENT: A screwed up mess. Go back and just start all over again in grade school. 
COUNSELOR: Because right now things are messed up beyond repair. 
PATIENT: It seems that way. Sitting here thinking, well I don't know, if you just kind of had some way where you could give the damn bill collectors everything you own. And you go out and build you a little one room shack that you could start out in. Sure as hell, there'd be some son of a bitch come around wanting that too. And then how would you get to work? You know, because they'd take your car. They'd take everything. Maybe they'd leave you a few clothes to wear. What are you going to wash them in? 
COUNSELOR: Like you never get any peace. Never get them off your back. 0:24:30.4
PATIENT: I think part of my problem is the fact that up until now, or up until the last few years, I've been able to whenever I see a bunch of problems like this I've just been able to kind of side step and get out of the way and go start all over again someplace. I've done this several times. And now I can't seem to see any way to get out of it. And it has just confounded me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like you're trapped with the mess now. 
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:25:13.8) several times you've been in front of the firing squad there's always been some way that you could kind of sneak aside and they missed. But right now, see, you're in kind of a cage. And there is no way you can get out of that cage. And they're going to bombard that cage. And you're just going to catch holy hell. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You're really going to get it. I guess, getting it means like your wife comes in and says I want a divorce? 
PATIENT: Oh well yeah. The whole gamut. The boss says you're not doing any kind of job around here. Just forget about coming in. The wife says I want a divorce. And I want 200 a week alimony and what else can go wrong. You know, you could name them all. The bill collectors are all sitting on your door step every morning saying what do I get today? And then they expect you to keep your mind on trying to do a job someplace. 0:26:14.8
COUNSELOR: Like, how much can they all expect you to take? 
PATIENT: They don't give a damn. 
Coming into work this morning, and the guys got to talking about vacations, you know. The two guys I ride with. One of them said, "Well, if I hadn't put up that fence around my back yard. I could have taken a vacation this year." And the other guy said, "Yeah, if I hadn't bought that new car, I could have taken a vacation." And I said, "Well, what in the hell have I got to blame my lack of vacation on?" I haven't done either one of those things. In fact, I haven't done anything that spent a tremendous amount of money. Because I don't have a tremendous amount of money. And yet, I haven't had a vacation. And one guy made a remark, "Well, I never borrowed money to take a vacation." Which is what I did last summer, see, and I'm still paying it off. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. It feels like you aren't even doing as well as they are. 
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: You were saying something before about losing your masculinity again. Is that, perhaps a little like losing hold?
PATIENT: A guy that's got a hold of his masculinity is a guy that can go to work, come home, and have a, you know, decent home. Bills up to date. A loving respectable wife and give her everything a wife should get, you know? 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Including sex. 
PATIENT: I don't have any of this it seems like. Yeah, including sex. Like that is 50 per cent of marriage. If not more. 0:28:18.5
I was thinking about this idea of going to the hospital possibly and having an operation on my back or something. The more I think about it, the less I want to do that because I'd be afraid of what my wife was doing while I was in the hospital. Ain't that a hell of a way to live? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I guess especially right now when, when you're feeling so unmasculine. Like, almost like, of course married to a man like me who is, you know, she'd go out and do something. 
PATIENT: I don't know. I want her to and yet I don't want her to. You figure that one out. 
COUNSELOR: Hmph. Yeah. 
PATIENT: In fact, I think that was one of the prime reasons why I wanted something to happen Monday night. She is getting to the point where she is, I can kinda read her now a little bit. She needs some. In fact, I even thought about the other day when I went out to Massachusetts. "Why don't you call one of your boyfriends and see if you can't arrange something. No, hell no. Why should she have pleasure when you can't?" It is just as if I want to pull her into the prison with me. 0:30:46.9
This thing about the guys killing themselves down at the County jail, you know. I can't blame them. If I was to get locked up down there, I'd kill myself too. That would be just the living end. 
I can just imagine what my wife says to herself. "We can't even swing with other couples because of you."
COUNSELOR: She must really resent you. 
PATIENT: It is the way I look at it. Maybe she doesn't but that is the way I feel she accepts me. I can't figure for the life me why she has not gone out on me in the last three or four months like she promised she wouldn't. 0:32:30.8
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It is almost like partly you feel like that is what you deserve. 
PATIENT: I guess. 
Can we write off the last session? 0:34:47.0
COUNSELOR: You feel like throwing in the towel today.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:34:55.5)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and you also feel like well, what the hell is the use?
PATIENT: Like she's told me before she don't know how she stayed with me this long, so.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and right now you're agreeing with her too. 
PATIENT: I kinda agree to anything. The guys in the carpool kind of threw me a curve a while ago. There is a guy that works across the hall from me every once in a while. He lives out in the same direction that we live and we go within a block of his house every day. He wanted to know if he could ride in with us tomorrow so that his wife could take his kid to get a dental checkup. I said, "I didn't drive, I won't be driving tomorrow but I'll check with the guy that is driving and see." I figured that well, he'll say yeah. This guy isn't the kind that bends that easy, you know, the guy that is going to drive tomorrow. I went over to see him and said so and so wants to ride with us tomorrow. And he said, "No he can't." I said why. He said, "Well the couple of times he rode with us we had to wait on him. He doesn't want to leave the same time we do." Which is about five minutes before quitting time. We come in a little early so we leave a little early to keep ahead of the traffic I guess you'd say. So I had to go back and tell the guy that the guy that is driving said no. This put me in a hell of a situation, you know. Made me look like a shit ass. So that didn't help anything either. I just don't have control over the situation. 0:37:37.1
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like with everything. You're sort of stuck like that. Like it is going bad and there is nothing you can do. 
PATIENT: Everything is going rotten. Like I said, there is no hope. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You feel it is all running out from underneath you. 
PATIENT: I wish to hell I had the guts to get out from under it all. Or away or something. This guy out there at the camp the other day, Monday, showed me this little revolver that he had, you know, stuck back there for protection. What brought it all on was the fact that he had this little mini bike. This guy is a plumber or something and makes more money than he can spend, you know. And he buys all kinds of junk, you know, just on a whim. And he bought this little mini bike and he got the thing out there. And he got to riding it around and the thing fell over on him and burned a big spot on his leg. Well, this, is all we heard from the minute we got out there until the minute we left. You know, "My sore leg. My sore leg." And his wife had a little place on her leg too. She had been riding with him. They both had gotten kinda burned. He'd burned a big patch on his leg. And it was rather painful. I don't doubt that, you know. He said that he'd taken three or four Anacin, three or four shots of whiskey or something the night before to kind of ease the pain. He said that he told his wife to take that gun and hide the damn thing because before the night was over he might want to try to use the damn thing. The more I think about that gun, the more I wish to hell I'd gotten a hold of it and brought it with me. The more I think about it, the more appealing it gets. If I just had the guts to use it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. Like even in terms of killing yourself, you don't treat it like you're a man. 
PATIENT: I'm not even capable of that.0:39:24.4 
I'm just sick and tired of leading this life. Everything is fine on the surface. I'm putting up this little front, you know, that everything is fine at my house. To hell with it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is like all this stuff is getting to be too much trouble, too much energy to maintain this front. 
PATIENT: I just don't want to really maintain it. If people want to know that I'm broke, I'll be glad to tell them I'm broke. If people want to know that I'm doing a lousy job, I'll tell them I'm doing a lousy job. [So I got here this morning] (ph) it is too damn bad that we had three kids that got brought into this God damn mess. 
COUNSELOR: And you're feeling like all you've done is made a mess for them. 
PATIENT: What else is there? 
COUNSELOR: Like the world is rotten and you're inadequate. Everything is all going to hell shortly if it hasn't already. 0:42:12.0
PATIENT: This, is a tremendous source of entertainment to you, isn't it? 
COUNSELOR: You mean like I don't give a shit either? 
PATIENT: No, no like, I don't know. The way I look at it, I guess it is selfish. Nobody else has got all the problems I've got. When it is not true. But here, you know all the problems I have and chances are, you don't have this many problems. And you kind of think, "well, poor guy, feel sorry for him. That is it." 
COUNSELOR: You're feeling like I'm feeling sorry for you. Like that..
PATIENT: Minutely not tremendously, you know, you just. Well, it'd be like me. If I was in a situation where you are, I'd say, "Well, I'd kind of like to do something for you but I don't know what I could do, so I'll just listen to your problems and that will be it. You know, the time will go and I'll just forget about it." Same way with my boss. He listens to my problems and gives me this, "I can't do anything for you." One time before, we had our electricity shut off. Same situation. My wife messed around and didn't pay it in time. And they came around and shut our electricity off. Well, this was when we hadn't been here very long. A year or something like that. I called my boss and I said, "What in the hell can you do for me?" Nothing. He could do nothing he said. He wouldn't even try, was my opinion. I thought maybe, you know, that he might know somebody that knew somebody that knew somebody that they'd call them and say, "Well now, kinda turn this guy's electricity back on and we'll get him to pay." And all this. He did nothing for me then. I should have realized then that it was time to get out of this damn place. As far as I see it, when the next pay increase comes around he is not going to do anything for me there either so. To hell with it. 0:44:16.0
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like there is no help coming for you. 
PATIENT: No. It is like standing in front of your house that is burning down and the fire department can't get there because they just don't know the way or something. I don't know what the hell is wrong. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And you're just going to have to stand there and watch it burn. 
PATIENT: When it has gotten as far at it has gotten, that is all I can do. Just stand there and watch it burn. I think the major difference this time though and previous times that I've had problems and I've been able to kinda get out of the situation is the fact that, I don't know. This time there is not going to be any coming back from it, you know. You're just going to be a bum all your life. Forget it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. There's no more fresh chances for you. No more starting again. And you're just going to be a bum instead of a confident person. 
PATIENT: Like I said before, I think I could be if I had the right opportunity. I could be something. But it just doesn't seem the opportunity is ever going to be there. 
Getting this down on tape? Do you go through and add in parts whenever I leave? 
COUNSELOR: No. Why? 
PATIENT: Subject sat there and played with her hair for half an hour? Just goes to prove he is nuts.0:46:30.1
COUNSELOR: Do you think I think you're nuts? 
PATIENT: Don't you?
COUNSELOR: That is sort of a funny question to ask me. 
PATIENT: No, I'm serious. I'm not trying to be humorous at all. If I'm not, I'm well on my way. I'm getting there. 
COUNSELOR: No. I don't think you're nuts. I guess the way you're feeling is like you feel like how could anyone think otherwise?
PATIENT: The way I look at it, if I think I'm nuts then the whole world does. 
COUNSELOR: Well, yeah. That is kind of the truth. 
PATIENT: The thought passed through my mind when I was out there the other day. I'm referring to the nudist camp. "I think I'll just let my wife and daughter go on back and I'll just stay out here." But before I left, I got the impression that I was no more wanted there than I was any place else. So I proceeded to come back to civilization, I guess you'd call it. This was somewhat on the order of other camp outs. You know, you get out and get away from things and you kinda feel, "well life isn't as bad as it might look at first thought. Maybe if I just stay out here and relax for a while, I'll be able to go back and fight this thing for a while." But then I got the impression that there was no more ability of the people there to accept me than there was the people around here, I guess you might say.0:49:10.6 
COUNSELOR: They felt the same way about you. 
PATIENT: The way I gathered it. 
COUNSELOR: What happened that made you feel that way?
PATIENT: Well, this, well for one thing the episode of I felt something might happen Monday night and it didn't. Well, this was from two standpoints. There was a couple staying in a little tent there across the road from us. He was about 50 and she was about 20. Married or so they say. And I was coming back from up at the front gate where they have a restaurant. My wife and all the kids and the other couple were all up there having a dish of ice cream and all this you know. And so, my back got to bothering me. And I thought, "Well, I'll go back and lay down for a while and rest and maybe it will quit bothering me." 
On the way back I walked past the volleyball court. And there was these two couples, this couple across the road from us and another couple out there trying to play a game of volleyball. Just the four of them, you know. And they hollered at me. And I said, "Well, if I came over there it wouldn't help any. You'd have an odd number." And so I went on down the road and got to thinking, "You know, maybe there is some friendship there. I think I'll go back. I need friendship." So I went back and by the time I got back they had some other people there. And I got on one of the volleyball teams. And, you know, got to playing and cutting up and having a gay old time, I guess you'd say. 
And so I went to take a swim afterwards. And while I was there, this older guy, you know the guy across the road from us, came up to the pool and he took a dip too. And he mentioned, "You know you and your wife might be interested in playing some shuffleboard later." Well, I'd been kinda half way cutting up with his wife there at the volleyball thing. And I thought maybe this, is, and my wife had told me what had happened to her while I was playing volleyball. And this all got to you know, maybe there is some kind of interest there. So he said they had to take this other couple back to town. And when they got back we'd get together and play some shuffleboard. 0:51:20.8
And so, like I said, I took it one way and it wasn't meant that way at all I don't think. And so several times during the night, we'd be sitting there talking or something and I'd get up and I'd trot out of the trailer and go over to check to see if they were back from town or whatever it was. And finally I noticed a light in the tent. So I went over and I tried to arouse somebody. There wasn't anybody there evidently. If they were, they ignored me. So this kind of disappointed me. And that along with everything else just kind of depressed me. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Like you'd been hoping that they wanted to swing with you or at least get together. 
PATIENT: At least try. Get acquainted and see if there was any interest on all parties. And this kind of depressed me. 
COUNSELOR: And when they didn't show up, it made you feel like boy, well, they certainly blew you off. 
PATIENT: They had second thoughts. They decided, you know, forget it. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Uh huh. 
PATIENT: And of course I took the whole blame on myself. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Felt like it was you they decided against. Oh well, let's not bother with him. 
PATIENT: The world is all against me. Like I say, I guess we might as well just write off that last session. 
COUNSELOR: Well. 
PATIENT: It is about that time. 
COUNSELOR: I guess it is. I'd just as soon give you a call and see how you are feeling about it then. 
PATIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: I wondered also if you wanted me to give to you someone else on the staff's here's name in case you wanted to come in and talk to someone while I'm away. 
PATIENT: No. I'll survive. Either I'll survive or I'll run. One of the two. 
Phone rings: 
COUNSELOR: Hello. Ok, thank you then. 
COUNSELOR: Can I give you a call when I get back, then? 
PATIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: It will be about the first of October. 
PATIENT: Ok. 0:53:37.5
Phone rings: 
COUNSELOR: Hello. No. Yes. Ok. So, maybe I'll see you then.
END TRANSCRIPT
