TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
INTRODUCTION:
The following transcript was provided by The American Academy of Psychotherapists. AAP was founded in 1954 as a multidisciplinary group of committed therapists who promote the art and science of psychotherapy.  AAP is dedicated to fostering the development of the therapist at all levels, from graduate students to seasoned veterans. Over the years, AAP developed a series of recorded sessions, where well-known therapists provided examples of his or her particular brand of therapy.
This is a session featuring Carl Rogers, PhD and a client.
Dr. Carl Rogers (1902-1987) was one of America's most prominent psychologists. Rather than identifying persons as "sick" or mainly flawed from childhood experiences as the Freudians did, Rogers was interested in how he and other mental health professionals could recognize the strength in people.
Rogers is the acknowledged creator of the "client-centered" approach to psychotherapy. It has also been called "person-centered therapy." His studies resulted in the creation of several totally new mental health therapy techniques. Client-centered therapy is based on the principle of talking therapy and is a non-directive approach. The basic elements involve the therapist creating a supportive, non-judgmental atmosphere in which the client is encouraged to reach his or her full potential. The therapist encourages the patient to express his or her feelings and does not suggest how the person might wish to change. By listening and then repeating back what the patient reveals, the therapist helps them to explore and understand their feelings for themselves. In client-centered therapy the therapist's role is mainly to act as a facilitator and to provide a comfortable environment and NOT to direct therapy outcomes.
Called "the quiet revolutionary," Rogers also accomplished what no mental health professional had done before. His 1942 innovation of the tape-recording of psychotherapeutic interviews was far ahead of its time. Many of his taped interviews were donated to the American Academy of Psychotherapists' tape library, and those tapes have now been transcribed for this database.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Well, did I tell you anything about the nature of...
THERAPIST: When I talked to you and we arranged this appointment I didn't even ask you anything so I don't....
CLIENT: Well I went up to his house. I sort of hesitate to go into it. But the fact remains that it is homosexuality. And I want to change.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So I talked with Art about it about a year ago last summer. And we had a rather long interview and he just said that I should see someone but not him because the relationship is too close.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So of course this is the first I've gotten down to business with it. And I've been thinking about it ever since. And I am confused mentally. I go around in circles. I don't know where to start. 0:01:10.4
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I have looked backwards just trying to find if I could find the cause if that would help any. It doesn't seem to and I don't think I could find it if I wanted to. And about the only thing I've figured out was that the important thing is to find out where I stand now and start from where I am now rather than psychoanalytically or something, go back in the past and try to dig up. I don't know.
THERAPIST: But the thing that you are clearest about is that you do want to do something about the problem.
CLIENT: Yes, but I don't know where to start. I don't know how.
THERAPIST: But as you have tried to think it over you sort of go round and round in circles. And have come to feel that maybe the most important thing for you is to try to figure out what is true right now or what is the situation right now. Is that?? 0:02:07.4
CLIENT: Yeah, sort of, yes. And to start from where I am now rather than to....
THERAPIST: I see, rather than go back.
CLIENT: To go back and try and find the cause of something and then, you can't go back in the past and eradicate the cause and try and up with a path solution choice. Of course that is what I always want. That is what I suppose everybody wants. An immediate solution or something, but I don't think it is going to be like that.
THERAPIST: It is what you wouldn't mind having but
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But you doubt if you will find it.
CLIENT: Well I looked for it in music and it was the same thing. I think it is sort of a carry over. I thought there a key to how to be a good musician. There is no key of course. You can't read it in a book. There is no.. 0:03:01.0
THERAPIST: Do you feel as though in that area too, you have a tendency to think now, there is a key.
CLIENT: That there is an immediate solution there. There is something that is going to make this thing all clear up.
THERAPIST: If I find the thing I will be a good musician. But gradually you have learned that...
CLIENT: No, it is ridiculous. And also I feel that all sorts of things are tied up. I mean one thing I found out when I went to Art was that shortly after that interview, which was sort of a catharsis, I gained ten pounds in two weeks. Which gave me something to think about anyway from the standpoint that probably the problems I have in thinking and music and anything else is all tied up. I mean everything is tied up very closely, problems with health or something like that, I don't know. 0:04:00.6
But there is, I would say that, well when Art said something about he felt it had crept into my music from the standpoint that I was making mistakes where mistakes shouldn't be made. He says, "There is no reason for you to do these things." And I do them still. He says it is a form of self punishment. Well, I don't know. And too there is this, I think the thing is in the form of a neurosis. I want, I am afraid to go ahead. I have always been afraid of new things.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: To go into something entirely new, it carries over a little bit in music. I am sort of afraid to take up a new piece. I am sort of, I am afraid when in college, well further back than that actually. From high school going into college I was afraid rather afraid to go into the new situation and make all the new adjustments that had to be made. It wasn't so much coming to a school down here though. 0:05:12.5
THERAPIST: But you do feel that it is kind of characteristic of you that anything new you are a little fearful.
CLIENT: It has been for a long time, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Meeting new people, it sort of carries... So you have, well that was the idea. I'm going to have to give myself something. I am confused mentally. I mean I can't think straight. So I also understand that I am the one that has to solve the problem and not you but I sort of want you to do it for me or something, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Um hmm, um hmm. It might, I guess what you are saying is that maybe it is supposed to be that you solve the problem or something but the thing you really feel is that you would hope very much that I would. 0:06:28.8
CLIENT: Yeah, that is very close to it. It is amazing though. After thinking about this thing for a year and a half I have come up with nothing that remotely resembles an insight into it. I mean I just don't, as I said before it has just been going around in circles. I don't have a very clear perception or something.
THERAPIST: In other words I guess you are saying there, "I've wrestled and wrestled with this thing and I don't see a bit more about it, don't understand it a bit better than I did at the outset." 0:07:03.2
CLIENT: Yeah, that is exactly it. I just don't know how one goes about changing that sort of thing.
THERAPIST: So like it is just a mystery to you as to how a person would make a start in changing himself or in understanding himself.
CLIENT: Yes. Yeah well it, I go on dates all the time. Not all the time, but occasionally, because I can be attracted to women. And yet, I don't know that it, it just doesn't seem to be the real thing. I mean there is no real attraction. It is sort of forced. So the solution isn't just to go out all the time. It is some sort of mental attitude or something. I don't know. Or a neurosis, maybe. I'm just unwilling to change my subconscious. But it is something that I am willing to change. I don't know.
THERAPIST: I guess you are saying that you have tried going through the behaviors of being interested in girls. And there is some reality to deal with. 0:09:01.6
CLIENT: Which I have to do anyway because society demands it. Which brings another point. It is one of the big reasons for wanting to change is simply society's attitude toward the whole thing. It is an impossible situation. For some people they like to defy convention and that's all right for them. But for me it is not. Because well, it is just such a social stigma attached to the whole thing. You get sort of tired of that.
THERAPIST: So for you, one of the big reasons for wanting to change is the social attitude towards homosexuality.
CLIENT: That is one of them. And another reason is simply that I don't think it is a rewarding, or it just is not a very happy relationship. Based on what I've, you know that it isn't. And also I look at when I get older, the picture changes. I mean when you are young it is one thing. When you are old, it is horrible. The fortyish and fiftyish men you see on the streets, it is just horrible. And I don't want to be like that. 0:10:28.0
THERAPIST: Um hmm. So you feel it isn't in itself fully satisfying now but even...
CLIENT: It will be even less so later.
THERAPIST: more weighty is the fact that as you look ahead, you don't like that at all.
CLIENT: And from what I see of the, of course I had an entirely different perspective on the ordinary heterosexual relationships in my age group. And from what I see of them they are satisfactory. Although there is an awful lot of nonsense that goes on there that I think is sort of stupid. But that has the approval of society for one thing. And still it seems to be workable. I mean more workable, more satisfying relationship all the way through. Of course there is the physiological element which is simply, who was it Jeed tried to justify it but it just can't be justified. But that is outside the realm of my experience so I don't know. 0:11:38.5
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Yes. I sort of get the feeling that you are seeing the various cultural and intellectual considerations on this. Several of those are outside the realm of your own experience.
CLIENT: Yeah. It is a very loaded, just to use the word, it is a very loaded word. Because when you say that you are queer it automatically sets you apart. You lose your individuality immediately. You become one of a horrible group. They say they are abnormal people but they are really not. They are but they aren't. They are perfectly ordinary in every other respect. Although their sexual outlook of course colors their outlook in everything else and that would differ from other normal people. 0:12:34.2
THERAPIST: But you feel that when you are labeled homosexual then it is as though you are no longer a person at all, you are just somebody that...
CLIENT: That is why I don't like to use the word because you lose your name, you lose everything. I mean it is not something...
THERAPIST: That label really destroys you as a person and just puts you in a class. 0:13:02.3
CLIENT: Yeah. Puts you in a class that is not accepted. But I have, I myself have not been put in that category ever because I've always been acting a part. I've never had any homosexual associates really. But yet when you hear people talking you always make the connection mentally. Of course they don't know they are talking about you. Maybe it is me that puts myself in the class alone. I don't know.
THERAPIST: At least you think other people haven't put you in that category. It is just the realization within you of what that would mean. 0:14:02.1
CLIENT: The only reason they don't is because they don't know. But they would. Except for a very rare few of them.
THERAPIST: That is the feeling though. That if they really knew, then they would put me in this awful disapproved of class.
CLIENT: That is what, you know, with a lot of them. Certainly with the family it is true. With a lot of my friends it is true. With some of them it isn't true at all. Well, I don't know where to do on. I go in cycles of upturns when I am more attracted to women. Sometimes almost entirely heterosexual in outlook. That happened at the school where I was before I came down here, for a while, for a short while. But then I always sort of lapse back into it. I don't know why. Maybe it is a retreat or something, I don't know. Or an escape, I don't know. 0:15:50.0
THERAPIST: That is the kind of thing that you don't understand. All you are quite sure of is that your feelings do change to some degree from time to time as there have been periods when you have felt quite strongly heterosexual in your interest. And other times when, I guess it feels to you a little bit as though it was a going back or something like that.
CLIENT: Or this is just too much. Why do I bother? That sort of thing hits me when walking down the street or something. I just give up.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. What am I going to all this effort for?
CLIENT: Yeah, what is the use? And then I, it is mostly entirely mental. It has nothing to do with relationships or anything. It is just sort of a, but of course to all my, to two last people they said, "Well that is absolute nonsense. You are not homosexual. You don't act it. You don't go around with men. You are not." But it is the mental attitude. I mean, it is ridiculous. 0:16:55.8
THERAPIST: But you feel as is true that this isn't, doesn't have too much to do with what goes on outwardly in my relationships. It is something within me.
CLIENT: Yeah. I would say it is, for those people that can see, it is evidenced outwardly by a certain lack of sincerity maybe or something. It is just, as I say it is an act. And it gets to be an act which I put on for society and it gets to be a drag because it takes a lot of energy. I mean you have to be...
THERAPIST: It is hard to keep putting on an act.0:17:36.8
CLIENT: You think of, you always have to be thinking about not what you would ordinarily do, what you would naturally do but what is the accepted thing to do and you have to do that.
THERAPIST: You feel in a sense that you are always following a fairly involved script.
CLIENT: Yeah. Whereas motivation is one thing and on the other hand is the purely insincere actions. I have no real basis of my personality or something, I mean there is nothing.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Sort of as though you were going in one direction but this act that you can put on is going off in another direction.0:18:28.3
CLIENT: Yeah, another direction. Sometimes they come together and sometimes they go further and further apart. When they go further apart I think I stop dating and, hmm I never thought of that. I have all sorts of devices for escaping. I go to movies. I read books. I do all sorts of things that are, hmm, yeah. I had a like despair shortly after I came down here to school because I went back in my old routine of, well I was constantly seeking some sort of entertainment. Or some sort of, something to get away from myself, I guess, or something. I don't know. Although I don't like really like to use that. 0:19:28.1
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Is this what you are saying though? When you and this false front get too far apart then it just seems very necessary to you to get some kind of escape entertainment. And that you realize, evidently realize really suddenly, "Yeah, that is what I went through when I came down here to go to school." 0:19:54.3
CLIENT: Yes. I joined a fraternity down here. Which was all right for the first while. But they insist that you fall in the mold. And you have to go to parties every weekend. You always have to have a date. And I don't always feel like having a date. So the upshot of that was all I told everybody that I got out of the fraternity for other reasons, that was the actual reason I left. Because I simply didn't feel like playing the game all the time. And that is what you have to do. 0:20:27.2
THERAPIST: "I just cannot keep up this act permanently."
CLIENT: Indefinitely. I can't do it all the time. I don't think I could. As an act. I suppose wasting time comes into it somehow. I worry about wasting all that time. When I should be practicing I'm doing something else. I'm going to a movie. I'm doing almost anything to waste time. I wonder why that is.
THERAPIST: Is it in these periods you feel almost compelled to waste time. Is that?
CLIENT: I feel more compelled to waste time than I do to practice. Even though I like to practice very much. And then I think about, "Oh my gosh. Look at the amount of time that slipped by." I start getting either depressed or angry or something. 0:21:31.7
THERAPIST: Um hmm. You really scold yourself if you waste too much time.
CLIENT: Yeah, I get quite mad at myself. And then I don't remember what happens but I turn over a new leaf for about one day or something like that. And then I start wasting time again. Although I always manage to pull through school because school isn't anything much. My great battle is my piano. That is the thing I have to keep at all the time. And that is, I don't know. I've gotten further and further away from it. I mean putting in the time I should. I suppose that also, I don't see how, maybe I associate playing the piano with something. But I waste time when I'm sitting there practicing. I mean I putz, I improvise, I do almost anything but what I should be doing. Why is that? I somehow feel the two are tied together. I don't know. 0:22:29.3
THERAPIST: Um hmm. It sounds as though in the piano playing you certainly experience this impulse towards time wasting.
CLIENT: Not in the playing, in the practicing.
THERAPIST: I mean in the practicing. I see. 0:22:48.2
CLIENT: Because the playing is a different thing. Once I get something under my fingers so that I can play it, it becomes a sort of a staple thing. And it has become part of the past which I don't mind going back to. It is the new things that I am almost afraid of. Not afraid of tackling but I want to get out doing. Maybe that is how it ties in. I get a new piece. I putz around it until I more or less can play it. And then I really can work on it because it has become so much easier. 0:23:28.9
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Whether it is the newness of it or what that brings this out, at least there is a feeling that whatever you do when you are practicing is tied in in some way, with a lot of other things.
CLIENT: Um hmm. I wonder if it is tied in with the idea of changing and being afraid. Or being sort of, not knowing how or something. How do I ever get (inaudible at 0:24:00.1) under those circumstances. It is quite important because it takes me a much longer time than it takes other people to do it, do a thing. Once I get it done though I can do it quite well.
THERAPIST: There is a feeling there that changing yourself to play a new piece or getting into this new experience is something for you that is slow and difficult and like changing yourself. 0:24:32.4
CLIENT: And then I have great moods of depression. I don't know. I haven't had any since I've come down here. At least not one or something. But I have tremendously depressed moods. I think those are when I just lose, I've been going around in circles for a long, long time or something. And I just don't have any clear vision at all. Maybe I get depressed about that, I don't know. 0:25:07.0
THERAPIST: Since you don't feel that you understand them, though maybe it is when you have been going around in circles for a long time. But at least there are times when you just feel terribly down.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah it is tied in with, though when I was in high school I was able to think quite clearly. Fortunately I can still remember the experience. And now when I can't about anything, school. Reading a book is more or less a matter of just reading the words and letting it soak in. It is not read from very much of a critical approach. I don't think the way I used to. And that bothers me too. 0:25:56.1
THERAPIST: Sort of a feeling that where I used to be pretty clear and sharp, I am now confused and..
CLIENT: Yeah that is it exactly. And consequently I feel that I bungle every day things because I am not able to think. If I had thought clearly I would have come up with it.
THERAPIST: "I just muddle through. I don't really do things clearly or well." 0:26:37.9
CLIENT: Not as well as I could do them. I forget some of the things that I wanted to bring up. Because I am not in an especially disturbed state right now. I have been going on fairly well. But occasionally I have things where I get a rush of ideas that I want to talk with somebody about. I can't remember some of them. I had a great deal of trouble with my family this year at home. And but, it is funny when I am out of a situation, not bothered by it any more I almost forget what it was that was causing the difficulty in the first place. 0:27:50.5
THERAPIST: Does some of those things that can seem very distressing at the time and you would just love to have a chance to talk them out.
CLIENT: I was always in a state over something. Just in a state about something or other at home and now I can't remember what they were about.
THERAPIST: It seems that you can hardly remember clearly what all the strain and stress with your family was about.
CLIENT: Well when I get into a depressed mode it is the same thing. When I get out of it I can't remember what I was depressed over. But sure as shooting I will be in another one in a week or so. Maybe I like them. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Maybe you get into them by choice or something? 0:28:44.6
CLIENT: Maybe I don't know. It might be that that is an escape too. I just give up trying to think about it and I just get in a mood or something. I don't know really. I've never thought about them too carefully when I am in them. I don't know what constitutes one of my depressions but just... I've noticed it before though that as soon as they are over I can't remember what they were about.
THERAPIST: So whatever the experience is in these kind of black times at least when you are out it is as though you have no...
CLIENT: Recollection. Or else I can remember the thing that caused it but I can't remember it in the same frame of mind I was in then. And when I am out of them they feel really ridiculous, very silly, trivial things. But they get magnified when I go into a depression. And that is all I think about or something. 0:29:45.0
THERAPIST: I guess you are saying that perhaps objectively they really may be trivial things.
CLIENT: Quite so.
THERAPIST: But when you are in that mood they are enormous things.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I can't entirely discount them because as I say, they will happen again. They usually happen later on. It must be some sort of a mental attitude. A way of, a mental approach caused by something. I don't know. Where I will just pick on any incidents as an excuse the send me into a depression or something. I don't know. 0:30:35.9
THERAPIST: Um hmm. So you are saying it could be that if I really am in the mood to be depressed then anything would do.
CLIENT: I'll find something to be depressed about. Maybe that is true. I don't know. Seems like this is miles away from the subject but it still, as I said I think they are probably all related so I might just as well present the whole picture.
THERAPIST: Feeling maybe I'm roaming around but I am sure it is all tied together. 0:31:13.0
CLIENT: Yeah, I am all one person as far as I know. At least physically. Sometimes I feel like several different people mentally, but. And I wonder about this idea of clear thinking. Whether that is just a mental laziness or whether it is also tied in with all my problems. And whether if I get out of this will I be able to think clearly when I am just all muddled because of one central problem or whether I'm using it as an excuse to be mentally lazy or something. I don't know.
THERAPIST: There is a vague feeling there that somehow the two things are...
CLIENT: They are related and yet maybe I just try to let myself get away with a lot because I am in sort of a difficult situation. Maybe I'm feeling sorry for myself. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Is this what you are saying? That perhaps you use what you see as your central problem as kind of an excuse for the fact that you are mentally lazy? 0:32:46.1
CLIENT: Yeah. And yet I don't really feel that. When I'm reading a book I want to, I want to get as much out of it as I can. I want to read it critically. And when I'm reading it I'm thinking about wanting to do it and yet I still don't do it. Maybe I just don't know how. It might be a lack of method or something. I thought of that and I told my piano teacher. And she told me to read Plato. So I'm reading Plato. But the fact that I am not reading very critically means that I am not going to get much out of Plato as far as method goes. Because you have to be pretty sharp. I don't think it is all a method problem. I think there is an awful lot of laziness involved.
THERAPIST: You doubt that it is just kind of mechanical difficulty or using the wrong method or something, but more of there is something deficient in you in that respect. 0:33:49.0
CLIENT: No. Well, deficient in the sense that I'm lazy, yes. I can only think of that one word to describe an awful lot of things that I do. And I of course rationalize them right after I do them. The fact that I didn't get up this morning in time to make class or something. I rationalize it. Well, I was up late last night. Or I had a bad week or something. And then shortly after I tell myself, no that is not true. It is just because you are so damn lazy you won't get up or something.
THERAPIST: It is that you can make excuses for yourself but still underneath that there is a very strong feeling you are lazy.
CLIENT: Yeah. Evidenced by the amount of time I can spend sleeping. I mean I can, well I can sleep very easily all day. More or less doze and daydream all day. And not have a thought in the least. Many is the time that I have spent until about one or two o'clock Saturday morning sleeping. After going to bed something like twelve or one the night before. And when I wake up I get very angry that I have wasted all this time lying in bed. I just turn over and oh well. So on and so forth. 0:35:20.2
THERAPIST: I guess you feel that this ability to sleep or daydream or a combination of the two is just real proof that you are lazy.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe I want to sleep again. I don't know. Maybe that is another thing.
THERAPIST: Maybe what?
CLIENT: Maybe I want to sleep. Maybe I would rather sleep than do what...
THERAPIST: I see, I see.
CLIENT: What I should be doing. If I were up I would be practicing or something. Procrastination is a big part of that. I love to put everything off.
THERAPIST: Maybe I really choose to sleep rather than the other alternatives.
CLIENT: Yeah. It is not a very conscious choice though. I don't know. But I do feel that all these things maybe are tied in with one mental attitude. Maybe the homosexuality isn't the central issue. I don't know because there are all these other side issues. That is just the one that seems the biggest because that is the one that society doesn't condone. Whereas lots of people sleep through classes. Lots of people don't read a book with any great care or go to too many movies or something like that. 0:36:51.1
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Sounds as though you are wondering whether isn't there perhaps some one unified problem. And maybe it isn't as much...
CLIENT: Maybe it is just the fact that some are brought into relief by the way other people think about them or something.
THERAPIST: Some problems would have sharper social aspects and some would not. But isn't there really in me one quite unified problem whatever it is.
CLIENT: Well there might be. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It certainly seems to be some sort of a pattern. I never thought of it before. I have never brought them all together and considered that each one has sort of a common element. 0:37:55.9
THERAPIST: Yeah, that seems...
CLIENT: I've always thought of them separately. But there does seem to be some sort of a common element. The fact that waking up to face a new day is almost too much to be borne, or something like that. Maybe that is another retreat from what is new. By rights I should be a political reactionary but I'm not.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. And at least there is a kind of vague feeling that all these different things may be tied in together. In that dreading to wake up and face a new day is not as dissimilar from some of these other problems as it might be. 0:38:43.4
CLIENT: Yeah, that is true. Well I can't understand what would cause something like that. Of course that is looking for the cause. That is not looking at the way I am. I can't, I have tried turning over new leaves and that simply doesn't work. Or maybe, at least it hasn't worked yet. You can't turn over a new leaf in everything and write letters when you are supposed to and not put off anything. I don't know.
THERAPIST: That is sort of, I guess what you are doing is sort of trying to feel out the implications of this and realizing well certainly this doesn't change just by saying, "Ok, now tomorrow I will change." 0:39:43.7
CLIENT: No, that doesn't work. I don't know why it doesn't thought. Sometimes it does work for a while. But it is always for such a short while. And I always want to lapse back into the way they were.
THERAPIST: I seem to want to slide back or something.
CLIENT: Um hmm. That is also true in composition when I'm writing a piece or something. I sort of hastily put down a new idea. And then I will lavish all sorts of time copying it. I will rearrange it. I will do any number of things with this one idea that has come. But I don't want to go on and write the succeeding developments of it or something like that. 0:40:50.6
THERAPIST: Sort of as though if you have taken one step forward and then you would like to...
CLIENT: I want to stay there.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you would like to spread all over that.
CLIENT: Feel my way around and explore the whole situation.
THERAPIST: Let's not move forward.
CLIENT: Whereas most they keep insisting that you write the whole mess as fast as you can and then go back and work detail. But I will copy I think half a dozen times before I go out and do something else. Make two or three versions of it. Sort of the same situation.
THERAPIST: There again that is kind of the same pattern...
CLIENT: Um hmm. Same as the piano. Same as the, it is the new that always sort of frightens me. So it seems to be sort of an obsession now. 0:41:44.7
THERAPIST: Sort of feel as though it is surprising the extent of which this does seem to be a theme of being afraid of the new day, the new task, the new...
CLIENT: Yeah that is, that has been as long as I can remember it too. Well no, that is not true. When I was in high school I always enjoyed coming back for another year. And I always enjoyed the, at least I think I did. Of course at the time I probably didn't. As you look back you always think that this was much better than what is now. But it wasn't always true. I remember very distinctly in my senior year in high school I was thinking how much better the years before were than this year. And then I all of a sudden though, well in a few years I will be thinking this was just about as fine as anything I ever had. Don't remember the environment that you are in at the time or something. I don't know. Or that you looked at these things they way you looked at them at the time. You just remember what is good about them or something. 0:43:01.2
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Sort of realize that even back there the past tended to look better and yet that you might have been really deceiving yourself about that. That when it was the present maybe it wasn't so hot.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I see our time is about up for today.
CLIENT: Oh, is it?
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Would you like to come back at 11:30 next Saturday?
CLIENT: 11:30 next Saturday? Yeah, that will be fine.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: And I will try to make it on time.
THERAPIST: I'll try to be ready on that.
CLIENT: Ok.
END SESSION
THERAPIST'S NOTE:
Ok. I think that this was a somewhat characteristic first interview. I am sure that the development of it follows the kind of thing that one often sees. Namely first my problem is a certain label. And then gradually the individual begins to get more and more out of his experience and begins to see that perhaps the problem is not that labeled thing, a neurosis, or homosexuality, or inferiority complex or whatnot. But that the problem lies more in his total experience. 0:44:26.7
And it seemed to me that this boy began to recognize something of the patterning of his experience. That there were themes and threads running through his life that were perhaps in some total sense more important than the thing that he saw as the problem. I think as far as the relationship was concerned, it seemed to me easy but not deep. As is more and more true of people who come for help these days he seemed to be prepared for the counseling experience evidently through this talk with his friend. And so it starts off easily but certainly without a great deal of emotional depth in the relationship. 0:45:35.3
I would say that from the point of view of the therapeutic process, what we have seen here is simply the very beginning of a relationship. And also perhaps the beginning of the individual's exploration of his life and of his own experience. And he seems to be finding, as is so often true, that though by himself he simply goes around and round in circles in such exploration, the moment he begins to express himself in a relationship then somehow it does get to be forward movement. I think that he felt that he saw a few things about himself in this interview that he hadn't been aware of before. I would say that this is surely no more than the merest start on a therapeutic experience but that perhaps it is a start. 0:46:38.5
END TRANSCRIPT
