TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT:  ... that well. So yesterday meeting with you was helpful.] (inaudible at 0:00:00) Not immediately, but I could kind of tell towards the end of the day that it had been helpful, if that make sense. And then I just took the day off.
THERAPIST: Can I—sorry, for a second? I just thought of some administrative things. First, your new insurance—did that kick in as of yesterday?
CLIENT: Yeah. It kicked in as of yesterday. They told me I need to get approval in some way. I need to call somebody and I didn't have the energy yesterday to do it.
THERAPIST: Do you have a card yet?
CLIENT: No, because they are still processing it. I only got a one-word e-mail saying, "Confirmed," that they had gotten all of my stuff and had signed me up on the 31st and I haven't gotten any other information about it. [00:01:17]
THERAPIST: If you want, it's up to you. I can take a minute now and probably look that all up or I can just look it up later.
CLIENT: I need to call and harass them anyway, so if you wouldn't mind looking it up later?
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I need to make sure that they're going to be okay with my thing—you know Dr. [Vaughn] (ph)—and figure out how that works.
THERAPIST: This is a Blue Cross plan. It's a PPO?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I might have the same insurance somewhere, but I'm not sure.
THERAPIST: That's likely. Honestly, you could probably ignore what they ...
CLIENT: What they have in the brochure?
THERAPIST: Yeah. And even what they may tell you on the phone. (both laugh)
CLIENT: I'm sure it's PPO. It's the $1,000 deductible. This month, I'll probably be paying out of pocket, but after that ...
THERAPIST: In July or . . ?
CLIENT: August—because of the deductible. And definitely July I'll be paying out of pocket.
THERAPIST: Right. I'll look it up later and send you an e-mail if you want.
CLIENT: I would appreciate that.
THERAPIST: Often the people on the phone don't give the right information. I know it gives a reason in the brochure but the way it actually works is often a bit different. What I've seen with a PPO is that you don't need authorizations.
CLIENT: They told me that I don't need authorizations from a PCP but I need to call some number to get some kind of approval. I don't remember exactly what it was.
THERAPIST: That may be but I've not heard that.
CLIENT: I just don't want to go through a month and then have them be like, "No, we're not paying this because you didn't call a 1-800 number once," (laughs) because they will do that.
THERAPIST: The other thing that crossed my mind is would it help you to add a visit?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:04:27]
CLIENT: Can I think about that?
THERAPIST: Of course. You can think about it (inaudible at 0:04:31)
CLIENT: Yeah. I hate insurance. I hated it when I didn't have to actually do everything myself and now I hate it way more. (laughs) But you know they told me that I was insured, so that's good. (laughs) It only took me two months to figure out.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Was there other business stuff?
THERAPIST: No, that's all I had.
CLIENT: There is this weird disconnect between when I don't have responsibilities on my mind, then I don't have responsibilities. When they're not right in front of me I don't have to deal with them, so that may get a shade better. This morning I worked for an hour and a half before coming here, which is good that I can work. That was awesome. I kind of sat down intending to work several times yesterday and then I was like, "No. This is no good. Don't push." But it's very weird. I'm working on just getting this bibliography together. The guy doesn't have the bibliography and he didn't write down the page range for any of the articles that he cited, but he's going to have to go back and work that shit out because I'm not looking that up for him. (laughs) And, yeah, I will look up the stuff on the Internet if he wants me to, but he's the one who looked them up in the first place. [00:07:19] I feel like my capacity to obsess is one of the things that makes me good at this. At the same time, I can feel myself over the course of an hour having to fight down this panic about all of the things. I catch myself in mistakes and I'm thinking, "I should have done this in this draft," and, "I sent him this draft but that had this mistake in it and I have to change it in the draft and he's probably revised it since then." I get more and more anxious about making mistakes as I go through and work until I just stop, which is usually after about an hour or two, two hours maybe. I just feel myself freaking out. (laughs) [00:08:52] (pause) Thinking I must be such a disappointment. (sighs)
THERAPIST: You mean that's what you're freaking about, related to making the mistakes?
CLIENT: Yeah, sort of. Pretty much.
THERAPIST: That's the problem with making a mistake.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, one of the thing I put in my cover letter as well as the things I say to myself to make myself feel better is I'm pretty detail-oriented. You can give me a job to catch other people's mistakes and I'm okay with that. So when I fail at that, it just gets under my skin. [00:10:33]
THERAPIST: I'm not sure if it just because it looks like I'm going to say something, but are you waiting for me to say something?
CLIENT: Well, it looks like you're going to say something. (both laugh) I probably shouldn't, in retrospect, have signed on for this with somebody that I'm not actually friends with but would like to be friends with. It probably wasn't a great idea. But I did. [00:11:39]
THERAPIST: I see. So the thing is you worry about disappointing him?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I always am worried that I'm disappointing whomever I'm working for. When it's somebody that I really like and would like to be friends with, somebody that was really extraordinarily kind to me—and that's something that is valuable and rare right now—and somebody that I can see is himself in a pretty anxious state or in a bind. And it's writing. Writing is like your kid. I don't worry so much about asking other people look at my writing. I've kind of trained myself to get over that sensitivity because I think that having other people look at rough work is so important but, particularly around here, everybody's ego is so fragile. This is his baby. [00:13:10] It's got a cleft palate or something. (chuckles) He feels like it's not good enough but he has to give it to me because he has to get it to a point where he can turn it in. He really wants people to read it but he kind of doesn't want anybody to read it because he doesn't feel like it's where he imagined it would be. That's my sense from filling in the gaps from every conversation with every other writer I've ever had. (both laugh) I feel like I should be very, very careful in how I talk with him about it and I haven't been because I've been kind of crazy. Like an addict. Yeah. [00:14:25]
THERAPIST: You're sort of like a preoccupied nanny?
CLIENT: Me?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (laughs) Sort of. Yeah. (laughs) He gave it to me and was like, "I have been thinking about asking somebody to proofread this, but I kind of don't want to because I don't want to hear anybody else's opinions about it. I can't deal with that right now." I said, "Okay. I won't tell you my opinions." And he was like, "But you would have opinions." I was like, "Yes. Yes I would."
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:15:09) (both laughing)
CLIENT: I was like, "Yep. Can't do anything about that one." But then he sends it to me and he clearly he does want me to say nice things about it. (both laugh) And it's really good. I really enjoyed it. It's 300 pages on a topic that I know absolutely nothing about and I completely understand his reasoning, which also never happens in dissertations. [00:15:50]
THERAPIST: Oh—this is a dissertation?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So it's even more like everything is riding on this. It's really good. It's also really rough. I see why he doesn't want to show it to everybody, but it's comparatively rough. I don't think he realizes that I'm the, people don't pay attention to being good at writing. (both laugh) It's not a prerequisite. Some people are like, "Is there humor in their dissertation? That is fantastic. I love that." I don't know. I guess I just feel like I want to be supporting him and I feel like I haven't been in terms of the quality of my work and in terms of (laughs) helping him be okay. It's actually upsetting for me. (pause) [00:17:55] Yeah, I always take my work personally. I always make it personal. That's deliberate. It's not deliberate; it's something that I feel good about. I think work should be personal. I think a full integration into my life is what I want for my work, but this is where it doesn't go so well.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) [00:18:59]
CLIENT: Not so much today. I felt crippled in my ability to deal with people or to talk to people. It's like in the aftermath I'm like, "Oh, this is what was going on with that person." Normally I would have seen that right then and be able to respond appropriately, but something about both perceiving what people are telling me and saying what I want to say is just garbled when things are really bad for me. I feel like I owe people that, which I think I said before. (pause) [00:20:46]
THERAPIST: I find myself wondering whether there are things you are being careful or even vigilant about now as you're talking.
CLIENT: Probably. Just getting out the door I feel like I have to be careful. I'm not coming up with the right words. It's how conversations work. Sometimes it feels like you have something to say and sometimes it feels like you're waiting for me to say something. I feel like the default setting here is that you're waiting for me to say something, but if you seem like you're on the edge of saying something, I wait for it to come out. (laughs) I don't know if everybody does as much as how conversation works, that you pay attention to other people's cues.
THERAPIST: Sure. I think what you're saying today harkens back for me a little bit to what you were saying yesterday about being really worried about telling me you've had such a rough week. [00:23:44]
CLIENT: Yeah, but then I told you about it, so then I'm not worried anymore. (laughs) I mean, really.
THERAPIST: (both laugh) No, no. I believe you. I guess the parallel seems to me to be the way that we're collaborating on this project. You were having to tell me something that felt like telling me that it's not going well or I haven't done something right, kind of like how vigilant you are with yourself with this guy's dissertation. [00:24:49]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's about right.
THERAPIST: Which also involves being really afraid of taking up emotional space or any other kind of space. In other words, making a mistake in editing his dissertation, although undoubtedly you will because, as you told me, that's just how it works. It feels like such a problem, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. [00:25:52] One, I think that's a good analogy because it's not so much that I'm afraid of taking up emotional space as that I'm afraid of taking up the wrong emotional space.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But about three-quarters of it is the wrong emotional space. (both laugh) Yeah.
THERAPIST: How about taking up emotional space in a way that you feel, not necessarily wrongly, but you feel make demands on somebody else? Like your mistake becomes the mistake in the dissertation. Or like you're having a bad week means that I might feel bad about not having... (inaudible at 0:26:56) enough or something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't think if you're by yourself being upset, it means you can be frustrated you're upset because you want to feel better or you're frustrated about it; but I don't think, in general, just by being upset you feel bad for taking up emotional space. It seems like it's, if I follow what you're saying, when it's stepping on somebody else's toes or causing a problem for somebody else. [00:27:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. And even when it's somebody else, one point of the conversation is to talk about how I'm feeling, and I feel comfortable talking sometimes. When the other person is clearly trying to be a resource for me then I say, "Okay, I can let you help me in that way." I'm intruding on other people's lives or other people's happiness. I feel like a black hole. I really want people to come to me, but I also want to say, "No. Stay away. You don't want to be here. You don't want to know what this is like." (voice breaks) (pause) (crying) ... (inaudible at 0:29:15) This is exactly what we were talking about. It feels self-indulgent to me to cry in here and not talk. (laughs) What the fuck? (laughs) (sniffles) (long pause) [00:31:15] I both can't figure it out and I can't stop trying to figure it out, and one or the other I think would be preferable than both. I'm just constantly picking away at it. "It" being depression—the whole big thing. I can't leave it alone. I get frustrated that I can't figure it out or that thinking about it doesn't make it better. (pause) ... (inaudible at 0:32:37) I'm watching too much Dr. Who. (both laugh) ... (inaudible at 0:32:46) all the time. That's a good show.
THERAPIST: What do you like about it?
CLIENT: I'm just having a hard time thinking or I'm distracted by thoughts that aren't actually sentences so I can't say them. (laughs) Things don't fit together. Sorry.
THERAPIST: Are they like fragments?
CLIENT: Maybe. Sounds like pre-sentences. I'm not good at discarding them, I think. I like the characters. They do a really good job of characterization and I think it's very good. It's kind of a show about what makes a person which, I think, is all.
THERAPIST: ... (inaudible at 0:34:27) Dr. Who.
CLIENT: Yeah. What is it, basically? (laughs) You could say that all of [...] (inaudible at 0:34:38) and all of art is about what makes a person; but that's so broad as to not have that much content. It's fun. It's fun. I like fantasy. Do you know Lev Grossman (ph)? He's a critic and he's a novelist. I think he kind of started out writing as a critic and published two fantasy novels. I read the first one and I hated it so much. I don't hate that many books. Usually if I don't like a book, I appreciate it. This one was like I hated it to the point where I hated Lev Grossman. Like you—I hate you. (both laugh) It was the only thing of his that I ever read. First, the guy whose dissertation I'm editing made a reference to Lev Grossman in the introduction. I put a note in there. I was like, "I hated that book," (both laugh) which I probably shouldn't have done but whatever. [00:36:09] He just published an article that he published in Time. He has a weekly article there. It came up on my Facebook newsfeed and I read it. It was really funny and really clever and there was a link to an article that he'd written about genre fiction. That was just spot on everything that I had been thinking about genre fiction for the last several years and have been trying to relay to other people. I really, really agree with him conceptually, but when he actually writes genre fiction he does all of the things that I think are wrong. (laughs) What is the link there? I think I started talking about this because I started reading fantasy really as escapist literature, literally as escapist. What I like about it is that it transmutes the problems of real life to such an extent that it seems like a distant thing. But then you can solve the problems there and it helps you figure out your own life, if that makes sense. [00:37:53] So as a kid, it was really important to me to be reading a lot of stories about children who were kind of alone or abandoned or on their own and made it through. That was really good and to say, "No, it's not fair, but yes, you will survive."
THERAPIST: I think that was really important.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: They were kind of about your life and not at the same time.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes I think the farther away it apparently gets from the human condition the closer it gets to it, which I like. [I am pathetic. I have a hard time dealing with problems, facing them, at least like I can't read my poetry.] (inaudible at 0:38:47) I can't do it. Stuff like that. I really would not be surprised if the world ended in our generation. I think there is a non-trivial possibility. I don't know what to do with that. (laughs) (long pause) 0:40:49 (breaking voice) It's like the depression feels like it's taking away everything I like about myself and now it's the only thing that defines me. There are a few years in there where I didn't think of myself, primarily under the rubric of somebody who is depressed, and I was really proud of that. (sniggers) But now, [...] (inaudible at 0:41:41) says being here is very open about this for a gentile, which I still find hilarious. (voice breaks) I told him there is nothing else in my life. This is the only thing I can talk about. I know it's an exaggeration to say there is nothing else in my life, but everything else is so tied up in this that I can't talk about anything else honestly without talking about this. That sucks. (laughs) [00:42:33]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Truly.
CLIENT: (sniffles) (pause) At one time—I had to be twenty or something around there—I thought to myself that thinking of myself as not primarily someone who is depressed is how I'm going to get out of this. That's really important for not actually being depressed, and I think that was true. That seemed to keep it from coming back. (pause) [00:44:55]
THERAPIST: I hear what you're saying, but there's something when you're talking that seems a bit careful or—meditative isn't quite the right word. There's something about the way that you're talking that's striking me like that more so than usual. It's not that what you're saying isn't important or isn't emotional, it really is both of those things.
CLIENT: The last thing was something that I was thinking about on the way to the bus stop this morning and just occurred to me right now.
[...] (inaudible crosstalk at [00:45:53])
END TRANSCRIPT
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

