TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: It didn't work out but in a way I am kind of glad it happened because it gave me a chance to really think things out about continuing. I had pretty much convinced myself that I didn't want to come anymore. After, you know, having these two weeks without coming I had found that, I really did kind of miss it. I also realized (chuckles) I have to answer about myself before I think Charlie and I could go to any kind of combined deal. I think the biggest thing that has been bothering me in the last couple of weeks is just the same thing as it was in the past - sex. We have had some talks about it. I more or less accused him of not being aggressive and all that.


COUNSELOR: That's a change; at least you could talk about it?


PATIENT: The only terrible thing was that he did make a few aggressive movements and I found myself just turning him off.


COUNSELOR: What do you mean aggressive?


PATIENT: Well, usually when we go to bed at night it is a kiss goodnight and then we go to sleep but you can sense when someone is going to do something or make motions to start something and I would automatically just do it. I could feel myself doing it by tuning him off with some clumsy excuse but I couldn't help myself. 


COUNSELOR: That's what you wanted him to do but at the same time you turned him off.


PATIENT: Yeah. This thing has gotten to be such a thing with us - especially with me. I have used it as a crutch insofar as all the problems of our marriage I felt rested on that. And now I am wondering if it is this at all. I am really starting to get upset about it because I am thinking of...what I talked about before - did I really want the marriage to work? I don't know how I could have these feelings about not wanting to have any type of normal relationship with him and yet still be married to him. (3:16)


COUNSELOR: Do you not want to have sex with him?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But do you still want to be married?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Well, sounds like sex is becoming much more than it is somehow. This incredible, complicated, full of trouble, you know, this thing that you are forced to do. It doesn't sound like you are getting any enjoyment or even willing it to happen.


PATIENT: No, I feel that...it seems like I am constantly obsessed with it. I have been trying to figure out why. My mind seems to be dwelling so much on it - all the time. I think it is because I have this terrible curiosity about it that never was satisfied. Maybe I always thought that when I got married, everything would just fall into place and that whatever you did sexually would become a routine thing. It overtakes so much of your life but in my case it has worked in reverse. I haven't found that much self-satisfaction with it in my married life.


COUNSELOR: What do you mean? I don't understand what you mean by curiosity. Is that what you are feeling now? Like you have a lot of curiosity about it?


PATIENT: Yeah, that's what I think I mean. I don't indulge in conversations about it with anyone or ask questions or anything. It's just like I am always pre-occupied with it when I am watching anything on TV or in the movies or if I am reading something - it always goes to one thing.


COUNSELOR: What are you thinking?


PATIENT: All sorts of peculiar things. I suppose in some ways I fantasize a lot about it. I am placing myself in somebody's place. I don't know. It's like I can't even explain it to myself. It goes back to what I talked to about before about it always being dirty or something. (5:57)


COUNSELOR: You have a lot of fantasies and they seem dirty somehow. That you should think about it.


PATIENT: And I can't identify with it. It is like when I do make love with Charlie I feel absolutely nothing at all and really it has nothing to do with him I don't think. It is just nothing to me. I cannot relate to it at all.


COUNSELOR: You just want to shut it out?


PATIENT: U-hum. In person, I can't relate to sex - only mentally.


COUNSELOR: In your fantasies?


PATIENT: U-hum. But not physically. It is something that I get real uptight about.


COUNSELOR: That seems like two separate things. One is the fantasy. It seems really all right to have fantasies. I mean everybody has them. People can have all kinds - perverted or not perverted. Everything. That's just human. It really is - to have those fantasies. There is nothing wrong with that.


PATIENT: The only thing that bothers me about them is if they happened occasionally I probably wouldn't think too much about them but when it starts to become a way of life it becomes disturbing. It's like I can't seem to identify with anything that is touchable. It is always something that is in my imagination. The thing that really bothers me more than anything is it is starting to affect me in other ways. I can feel it because I...like the last couple of weeks I have been really nervous and I have been taking it out for a (inaudible 8:22) on Charlie and it is like I just can't control myself. It is like I can almost feel the emotions building up inside of me but I have no way to release them. When I have the opportunity to release them I don't take advantage of it because I don't want to.


COUNSELOR: Are you talking about making love to him?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: So it kind of builds up and then all you have is fantasy?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: You are living with a man and getting turned on by him but not really sleeping with him? (8:56)


PATIENT: U-hum. I can't seem to relate this to him either. I have tried.


COUNSELOR: How do you feel about making love with him?


PATIENT: I don't know. It turns me off. It is funny because there were, I think, a lot of things about his lovemaking that turned me off because I had my own idea of what it should be. 


COUNSELOR: Specific things that he did that you didn't like?


PATIENT: U-hum. Really, when do you talk about these things other than at the time that it is happening? It is not something that you discuss over the dinner table.


COUNSELOR: Is that still true? That there are things that turn you off?


PATIENT: U-hum. Just certain things that up to now I have always been afraid to say anything to him about. I was afraid that I would insult him or hurt his feelings. I have found that I have been blurting these things out. I didn't even realize it until I had said it.


COUNSELOR: What particularly do you mean?


PATIENT: For instance, the method that he follows. He is so aggressive that it makes me become really very cold. If someone was raping you wouldn't co-operate and that's sort of like the way I feel. He comes on so strong I feel like I'm being raped. And I don't enjoy it.


COUNSELOR: When he is actually inside you, you are talking about, or before?


PATIENT: Before.


COUNSELOR: So it is almost like he hurt you and you would really like him to be gentler? 


PATIENT: U-hum. See...


COUNSELOR: Softer...


PATIENT: We have had this particular problem for a long time. For a long time I thought it was me even to the point where I asked my doctor about it. I thought something was wrong with me. Charlie would say: "It is because you can't relax." Which is true. It is like I am a rigid piece of stone. I realize that he feels this and it bothers him.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you don't like it much either?


PATIENT: (Chuckles) But I can't relax. The terrible thing is that he gets so frustrated. He sort of forgets that I am there and instead of slowing down and taking his time, he goes in the opposite direction. That even makes me get more uptight. I just get to the point where I am hanging to the ends of the bed because I can't wait until it is over. It is just sheer agony. (12:16)


COUNSELOR: At the beginning you might have been ready to do it but then you get by-passed and then you are really not?


PATIENT: U-hum. I talked to you before about the preliminary. I think for, as rare as we have sex, there should be some type of build up to it. Maybe if it was an every other night occurrence, I could see where it would become mechanical but it is mechanical with us and we do it maybe once a month. I get really uptight about it because sometimes I feel that, with Charlie...I have a feeling sex has become very minor to him, where it has become major to me. 


He has obviously learned to live with these frustrations through masturbating and that. When we do finally make love, it is like; he is so concerned with his own gratification that he is really not that concerned with me. When we used to make love more frequently, we talked about a lot of this but then as we got away from it, we just quit talking about it. It is really pretty terrible because every time we do make love, it usually ends up in somewhat of a catastrophe, even if it is not spoken. It is just a feeling.


COUNSELOR: And with all this accumulating in the flash of time...it didn't work - you are not getting anything out of it at all.


PATIENT: I feel like, in a way, I have very strong guilt feelings about it. I feel like I am not fulfilling my role as a wife and he has often said that my apparent discomfort, and not being able to relax, kind of turns him off because he doesn't feel that he is satisfying me. I can't figure out why we can't get together because obviously we are both aware of what we are doing to each other and yet we can't seem to do anything to stop it. We go, like, in our own direction as far as sex is concerned. (15:12)


COUNSELOR: You would really like it to be stopped but you don't know how to do it?


PATIENT: Yeah. I feel that it is just definitely going to get worse as we get older. We are supposed to be in our prime now - really enjoying it and everything. 


COUNSELOR: But that is so far from what is happening.


PATIENT: Really, if we both would have been honest with each other from the start I think maybe it wouldn't have come this far but over the years it has just gotten steadily worse. It is funny because now we really aren't taking any precautions and yet I really don't want to get pregnant. Because I feel like: "Damn, things are so screwed up now, if I get pregnant, then what is going to happen. Damn (chuckles), then we will have an excuse not to do anything." That bothers me - it would be in the way now. I feel until we get these problems taken care of a baby would just be some way for us to rationalize us not, you know, really participating. 


We don't even talk about things like...you know, things that would excite us personally or that would take care of our needs. And that has always bothered me because every time I have tried to talk to him about it, it is like he doesn't hear me because he doesn't want to.


COUNSELOR: He doesn't want to hear what you need?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: Are you talking about sex now?


PATIENT: U-hum. You see I don't feel that I can honestly say that since we have been married - other than the first two nights that we were married - I never felt anything for it at all. I can't seem to relate to him. I don't mean for this to sound phony or unreal but it was like half of my energy just went out of it. I can't even believe it myself. When were just dating it was so different and I keep telling myself that it was because it was forbidden and you had to do it on the snake so that made it more exciting. As guilt conscious as I am, I should have really heeded it then because it would have really taken over my...the guilt would have taken over my true feelings. (18:50)


Maybe when I think back now when we were dating our sex life was different because Charlie was probably trying to prove himself to me and he was reacting differently.


COUNSELOR: He was putting out more it sounds like?


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, he was gentler and there was something about his way that was physically attractive to me where it seems like that all disappeared.


COUNSELOR: If he changed and did things differently, you would feel better?


PATIENT: I think so. I realize that some of the things that are mixed up about us are about me because I myself have a lot of hang-ups about sex and everything.


COUNSELOR: But still you are saying something quite specific that really if he touched you differently it would be a whole different style of sex for you?


PATIENT: U-hum. Even having any type of sexual relationship with him just automatically turns me off. I hate to even think about it - I don't think about it.


COUNSELOR: You are practically being raped?


PATIENT: U-hum. That's why I think I fantasize so much. I never have fantasized as much in the last maybe six or seven months as I have in my whole life. I am just in a state where I feel nothing for anybody and that really bothers me. Any direction I turn in there is just no satisfaction. I don't want to start looking for it in other ways other than masturbation but I don't really know how long I can keep on sustaining that because it is like really nothing when you come right down to it. Besides making me sick to my stomach, I really can't enjoy it that much. I will talk to Charlie about masturbation and he will always turn me off on it. He will say: "There's nothing wrong with it. You are letting your background and your religion and all that get in the way. They are normal, guilty feelings." But I don't think it is normal when it is all you do. (22:12)


COUNSELOR: It is not enough, you are saying. It really doesn't satisfy what you need.


PATIENT: I have tried to figure out how - other than just the physical; getting away from sex for a while - I feel that if I could start getting my own doubts in order, maybe I would start to relax. I am so unhappy with my present situation about everything and it is like nothing means anything to me. For a certain period of time I had certain things that I never let go of. Going to church - I was always very faithful about going to church. I really found a lot of satisfaction from it and in over a year I hadn't been to church. It has really bugged me and Charlie said: "Well, why don't you go?" Don't sit there and talk about it - if you want to go, go."


COUNSELOR: I get the feeling that you really are under an incredible amount of pressure. You are really suffering and you are just hanging on?


PATIENT: Yeah. It is really funny but last night I got this really terrible urge to talk to someone, like a priest or someone, and really blurt everything out and be honest with him. I really do feel uptight about this truth business but the thing was that Charlie would never go with me and eventually I just started finding excuses and I didn't go either. I have tried to say we don't have anything concrete. We don't share anything together except a social life and what is that?


COUNSELOR: There really is nothing. There is not love. There is not anything really?


PATIENT: It is so funny. I feel guilty sometimes because I think that he really does care for me a great deal and even when he will do things that upset me terribly, it eventually turns out that everything is okay and he feels bad about it. The last few times that we argued I have really called his bluff and said: "If you want to leave, leave because I am really tired of the whole thing." And he has made no attempt or even a threatening step or anything that I think three or four months he would have. (25:33)


COUNSELOR: You have a long bond that has been formed over a number of years but that doesn't change the fact that you are unhappy right now.


PATIENT: Yeah, we have a bond but it is like...what kind of a bond is it really? Tonight we could go our separate ways and there would be nothing left of it except some memories and that would be it. 


COUNSELOR: And a lot of pain.


PATIENT: U-hum. The thing that I am so upset about is that four years is a long time and in that four years I feel our relationship should have grown and expanded and that we should have some tangible things that we can say: "See." But we really don't have it. I feel that a lot of it has been the result of our constant dependence on other people. We just can't seem to go it alone and it is getting worse really. That is the only thing that is keeping us together - because we don't spend that much time alone.


COUNSELOR: You have expected a lot of beautiful things to come out of this - your children and all the things husbands and wives are supposed to do with each other. So now here it is. There really isn't anything.


PATIENT: I realize that almost the whole time we were married it was the service and it was school. We kept saying: "We are going to wait - we are going to wait." I guess that I kept thinking that when school was over that we would settle down into a more organized way of life. We didn't go so much in our own directions...it is really funny, like, the whole time that Charlie was in school I was so fearful that I was going to lose him because I was so away from that life - I had no part of it. He did go out a lot and he did a lot of things that I suppose, move on, like going out late and not calling or something. Now he never does that. He rarely ever goes out without me and for some reason I really expected more now than I did then because we really did see so little of each other then. (28:44)


Now, with both of us having a more organized way of life, we are together more but still there is nothing. And yet, it appears to me that he doesn't seem to be looking for other outlets although our constant companionship with other people is an outlet in itself because we aren't forced to spend all that time together - just the two of us. When we are together like that, or on the odd occasion that the two of us would go out and do something, we really don't have that much to talk about. 


COUNSELOR: It is almost like you really never gotten to know each other?


PATIENT: Yeah. I am starting to feel that more and more because so many things have come out recently that I never thought existed. They were really surprising things.


COUNSELOR: I get the feeling you never let that sink in. There is so such pain. There are so many chances of being lonely if you had to give him up.


PATIENT: I think in a way we both feel that way because, you know like, Charlie has become very conscious of his youth which I think is kind of funny because I just never think of that in regards to a man but I think for some reason or another he has convinced himself that he is over the hill as far as being attractive to other women. It is really kind of funny because for a long, long time he used to talk about this girl or that girl that he found attractive and now he just doesn't talk that way anymore. I think he is very afraid of being rejected.


COUNSELOR: How does that feel to you? Maybe that gives you a better chance of keeping him? (31:31)


PATIENT: No, I feel kind of funny about it because the one thing that always attracted me to him was his cockiness and his self-assuredness - about himself. He has kind of lost that. I never felt threatened about it personally. Now the tables are turned, he is very aware of my existence around other people and he is always watching. We went through a period where his jealousy was almost zero and it has climbed to almost 80 per cent now. He is constantly watching and listening and picking up things. It really bothers me. Maybe he does have something to worry about. I don't find it offensive or I don't get angry about it but it makes me nervous because it makes me feel very self-conscious. 


COUNSELOR: Like he is right? That you are about ready to find someone else?


PATIENT: U-hum. He will comment to me about something I did. I will ignore it or I will laugh it off but I know that...the thing is that at the time I am doing it, I think it is funny and innocent but I know that it is not. I guess that self-consciously I am just playing games with myself. 


The thing that really bothers me about that is that that reminds me of his mother. He is looking again to that. I have tried talking to him about that -his feeling about comparing the two of us together all the time. He doesn't really feel that that is what he is doing but I feel it definitely because has just been too upset and too hostile all these years about her that he feels that really deserves better. He deserves 100 per cent of someone because he never had that. I often do feel that I am his mother and in a way I find that very satisfying. I don't have an overly strong maternal instinct but I do like to be needed and he does need me. Sometimes I think we treat each other like two kids. We are always doting on each other. (35:05)


COUNSELOR: Doting on each other on one level and both of you understanding what is really going on with the other? That your marriage really is in crisis and neither one of you knows what to do about it?


PATIENT: U-hum. I feel, in a way, both of us can't understand how we could have live together all this time. We have never, ever had a major argument where one of us has stormed out. I can't honestly say it has ever reached a breaking point and yet there are so many problems underneath.


COUNSELOR: You have just slowly accumulated them and slowly begun to realize it?


PATIENT: U-hum. I sort of had a feeling. I kept telling myself if we could get away from where we lived and get away from the parental strain and the constant running around with certain friends, that maybe things would change. Some of it did because we were moving away for three weeks and I found that there were things that I would do - like go shopping and stuff like that - and he would go along which we hadn't done for a long time. But there were other things that I was hoping would come out and they didn't.


COUNSELOR: So that all turned (inaudible 37:09) out too?


PATIENT: Yes and no. I don't know. In some ways I feel better about a lot of things but as far as our getting any closer sexually - that hasn't happened. Sometimes I really wonder if I am putting too much importance on it and that is what bothers me too. Things will just pop into my head like: "Well if it is really that important, we have a good life together - you can't have everything. There has got to be something sick or wrong.


COUNSELOR: So what you keep saying is that it is not a very good life? On the one hand, it is something you want to keep but on the other hand it is really lousy?


PATIENT: Yeah, but I am trying to figure out why it is lousy. That is what bothers me. There are certain obvious things but I can't find out the one side that I can't see. I don' t know if it is because I am unhappy with myself. I don't feel satisfied as a person so therefore I can't feel satisfied in my married life. That is what is bothering me. (38:32)


COUNSELOR: You really don't like yourself, sort of thing?


PATIENT: Yeah, I am really not happy with myself - I haven't been for a long time. I am not happy with what I have accomplished and I feel like I am wasting a lot of time, that I could be doing things constructive. I really don't have anything that I could call my own. I live through Charlie and I am not finding any satisfaction in that. I enjoy being a person on my own. It rarely ever comes to the surface but on the occasions that it does...if we are with...most of the people that we associate with we don't really have that problem. But it is only when we are with strangers that I realize that I am so far behind him and that really bothers me. I don't think it bothers him at all. It did for a long time because he talked about it a lot but it never really left me. 


COUNSELOR: For you, it bothers you. Things that you would really like to be doing - just for you?


PATIENT: It is really funny because I didn't know what it is that I want to do.


COUNSELOR: There is a feeling of needing to get yourself separated or needing to stand on your own feet as a person.


PATIENT: U-hum. The other thing I worry about so often too is that I like to think that I am a person who has some values that really mean a lot to me and when I sit down and really think about it, I don't. I realize that when I don't have...you know, like the relationship with my parents that I would like to have; I don't have the relationship with my husband that I would like to have. I have completely given up what religion I have. (41:32)


It is like I don't have anything that really stands to me and is really important to me. Until threatened, and then I look for it but why isn't it there all the time? It's like nobody really means anything to me and that really bothers me. Sometimes I wonder if I could be that selfish and self-centered that I can't find any importance in anybody beside myself. Yet I don't think that is completely true. Somewhere along the line I have lost something. 


COUNSELOR: Are you saying there is, in some sense, something you need for you that you haven't gotten and that is not necessarily the same as being selfish?


PATIENT: I don't know. I have really become obsessed with the idea that I have become selfish because I don't really worry about anybody. I have never had that strong of a relationship with my parents. They corner me into doing things by making me feel guilty about not doing them. It really bothers me because I get these strong urges to do something for them or do something with them and before I have a chance to follow through, they are like, blup (chuckles), and you know their ideas. It really bothers me because I don't like being pushed into something.


COUNSELOR: As I hear you talking, it sounds like what you are saying is that you have just never taken the space for yourself to get together what you need and what you want. And that is also what you have been saying why you want to leave in this therapy instead of the therapy with Charlie. That ruminates in me. That sounds really right. And I want to say something like that is what we can look like here. (44:00)


PATIENT: I think that sometimes I just think about Charlie as being just another link in the chain because when I go back to when I was single and I think back on my life and what I did with it, it was really zero - there was nothing. Even the good times weren't that wonderful. If I could even go back and say: "Well, you know when I was single I ran around and I drank a lot and I did this and I did that." But I can't even say that. As long as I was single I lived at home and my parents were very overbearing and I constantly had to answer to them for everything I did. My best friend was someone who I was extremely jealous of...and that's even bothered me a lot. I don't have someone I could call my best friend because I lived in her shadow.


COUNSELOR: Even then you weren't a real person. You weren't enough that way?


PATIENT: I think about all the things I did then and I really don't think I would have done them without her. She was the complete opposite of me in every way.


COUNSELOR: In a sense you have always to rely on somebody else - it left a pattern?


PATIENT: U-hum. The thing that I feel now is that I would like to start making something concrete out of some part of my life. Right now, primarily my marriage. I so desperately want to make a success out of it but for some reason or another it is like I have taken on the whole thing personally.


COUNSELOR: I think I hear that. I think this therapy is for you - it really is for you. I mean, you can talk about Charlie but it really is for that. That is what you are here for and that is what we have spent time on - whatever that means.


PATIENT: That is the way that I have felt too. He has encouraged me to keep on with it because he said he felt he could see some changes. I don't really know what they are - and he couldn't pinpoint them - but I have to figure it out for myself. I really didn't want to just throw the whole thing up in the air. It was getting difficult for me because I realized that I was really going off on tangents about the marriage and Charlie and the whole bit. I guess I was just so afraid to come here by myself - that is what really bothered me. It was like something we were doing together. When he walked out, I was on my own and I just didn't want it anymore. (47:58)


COUNSELOR: Because it was really hard for you to come - it was scary?


PATIENT: I don't know. I identify with things. If I would have started this out on my own - like I started before he did - it didn't bother me. That is the way it was. But then when we started coming together, I identified therapy with Charlie. It was our night together.


COUNSELOR: That way it was something more than just you coming?


PATIENT: U-hum. Then when he dropped I was on my own again but it wasn't the same. It had lost its meaning for me. I found for the last two weeks it was easy to cancel but he has been, well: "You're definitely going to go this week - I don't care what happens." So when I woke up this morning and it was snowing I was so happy. And I said: "God, maybe I don't have to go." He just said: "You are going. The roads aren't that bad you are going to go." All of a sudden it hit me. This is part of it - you just can't assume responsibility on your own. It is so easy for me to talk myself out of something that I don't like. I can do within a split second.


COUNSELOR: So it's not like you are only going for him - it is more than that? You want to be able to take more responsibility on your own?


PATIENT: Yeah because if I am not relying on someone else, it is rare that I can rely on myself. I am just not the type of person that can pick up a thing and carry it. Being tied down to an obligation really bugs me. (50:24)


COUNSELOR: Because you have to be responsible?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: Well I don't think of this as an obligation. I'm going to say that again - this is your therapy. This is for you. That means it can be whatever you need it to be.


PATIENT: After he quit, it had become like an obligation to me. I didn't really want to quit but I was talking myself into it. I was saying: "Well, maybe you have had enough and you have said what you have say and there is nothing else to say." So that is when I started looking for alternatives and when he didn't want to go along with it, I became very defensive to him. I kept identifying the whole thing with him and not with me, forgetting that it was my idea to begin with.


COUNSELOR: Actually you are saying that just sort of flipped in. You forgot that you were the one who started it in the first place.


PATIENT: I just don't feel like I want to quit now. I really do want to continue. I just had to come back to it once to know that I really feel that I still need it and it is not something that he was making me go to. That was just the thing that I had to get through to myself. For him to keep saying to me: "Well you should go. You have made a success out of it so far- you shouldn't quit." He was telling me all of this but it didn't mean anything to me because he was it was like he was saying: "You are sick - you need it." I became defensive to him then about it. (52:50)


COUNSELOR: I don't you should think of this as something that is all your fault - that the marriage is all your fault - and that you are going to get cured and that the marriage will all be better. It is never all one person's fault. This is for you and this is your side of it and that is all.


PATIENT: I think that was another thing; that I was looking for a lot of easy answers. I realize now that that is not going to be the case, no matter what type of counseling that he or I go to or the two of us together. I am concerned about the marriage - and I know there are problems - but I am more concerned about myself. I am unhappy with the way I am and as long as I m this way I really can't care about anything else. That is why, right now, I feel like I don't have anything. That nothing means anything to me - because it doesn't. I am just at that point where I just have to start getting something solid in my own life before I can revamp anybody else's or what I can do to help the marriage.


COUNSELOR: It is really putting him (inaudible 54:33 plane overhead!) and that is maybe the best way you can (inaudible 54:36 plane overhead!)


PATIENT: A month ago I would have been completely panicked at the thought that perhaps the marriage will never work but I am really not that concerned about it anymore. I have come to accept the fact that if it isn't going to that it would be better to end now than to continue. For a long time I was concerned about what would I do or where would I go. I still don't know but it just doesn't bother me. (55:30)


COUNSELOR: But getting yourself together may mean, in fact, that you don't stay in the marriage. That's like a very possible thing. That seems not comfortable but something you better accept?


PATIENT: And I have never mentioned that idea - or that truth - to Charlie. I doubt he is even aware of it because he is so unaware of most of my feelings - about myself. But it is something that I have thought of and if it happens, it happens. I can't live a life of that nature with anybody. It is not worth it to me.


COUNSELOR: There is too much pain for you? Too much emptiness?


PATIENT: U-hum. It really is not the way I thought marriage would be with anybody and I just think back now when I got married - what I was looking for - and I don't like the answers I have come up with. They were really wrong. I feel that there was probably the same truth in Charlie's life at the time but he has either been able to cope with them or maybe in his mind the marriage is working out better than he thought it would. For him to even say, "I love you more now than when I married you", is proof to me that there wasn't much love there to begin with. I can't waste my time trying to figure out why he got married. I am trying to figure out why I got married. 


COUNSELOR: For him to say that to you it is pretty disgusting in a way? It is almost like saying...


PATIENT: It is and it isn't. I think I really knew at the time and maybe that is why - or maybe that was one of the underlying reasons why - I was pushing so hard. It was like a challenge. Among other factors I think now when I look back on it, I had pretty much talked myself into it and towards the end I may have even realized what I was doing. I think that is why I started to panic so badly right before the marriage. (58:44)


COUNSELOR: So now it really is like facing the things that you have half-known but never been able to say out loud?


PATIENT: U-hum. Because I did enjoy the early part of marriage - the amount of freedom that I experienced from not living at home plus the security of having someone to take care of you and share things with. But that wasn't enough for me I guess. Now I just feel that in some ways I am still happy with some of the aspects of our married life but I don't know if they are strong enough to keep the whole thing together. 


When we talk about it...it is like I don't even really care to talk about it anymore with him. Occasionally, while we were still in therapy together, I would try to promote some involved conversations about it but it is like we have talked so much that, as far as I am concerned, talking isn't the answer.


COUNSELOR: Even that is not worth it. That is just drained dry. How can you even try any more?


PATIENT: I guess that what I am looking for is some changes. Something on my part to make me feel differently than the way I do. 


COUNSELOR: Some kind of, just breaking out of this situation?


PATIENT: I really don't know what kind of changes could take place that would make me feel any differently. 


COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you are just so frustrated with this that there has to be something that gives?


PATIENT: It is funny because there are just so many things that I can't even seem to mention but there are really strong feelings about the type of life we lead, our ideals about different things. They are so different. Some of our interests are different. Funny things like that are important to me. It is kind of frightening in a way because I never thought that I could feel that I would even think of separating or anything like that. (62:18)


COUNSELOR: And now here it is?


PATIENT: U-hum.


COUNSELOR: We have to make a time.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: Which one do you want?


PATIENT: Oh okay, I am sorry. Well, about 5:30 now. We will be back home and I have to wait for the car.


COUNSELOR: Okay, 5:30 - that has to be a little later, is that okay?


PATIENT: That's fine. If it is later that is even better.


COUNSELOR: Even if you want to make it Monday or Wednesday too - those two days will be better.


PATIENT: Wednesdays would be pretty good.


COUNSELOR: That would work out for me too really. Next week, we would have to change times. We may have to be juggling around for a while. For next week, we could do from 5:30 to 6:30. 


PATIENT: On Wednesday?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: That's fine.


COUNSELOR: And then after that it could be earlier.


PATIENT: Fine.


COUNSELOR: Okay, see you next week.


PATIENT: Okay, fine. (64:43)


END TRANSCRIPT
