*TEXT-PV010598  27 December 19712973
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (7-minute silence) I don't know, just thinking about this morning, mainly I think in, of the feeling I keep getting is that I don't, I don't want to talk now.  And, uhm, (Clears throat) I suppose I, I also had the feeling this morning I think, that I didn't want to come today, and I, I would imagine that's probably partly in reaction to not coming last wee—, at the end of last week.  (Pause) But also, when I think about today, uhm, well I was thinking mainly about going to SMQ this morning to see if there was anything on sale I wanted. 
And I'd gone with FNI, who then stayed in town, PWRZ, to do some other things, and I went home.  And I had FSO with me, and she had FYH.  And, at some point I'm thinking about her arrangements in leaving MYDN, and uh, not so much about John, but I think the feeling I had this morning was very much that FNI knew what to do, or I don't know, somehow, anyway, that she, she was more in control, in charge.  And I again, was feeling in some way like a little girl tagging along after her.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Why didn't you want to come?
PATIENT: (Silence) Well I don't think this is really the reason, but the thing I kept thinking today was, (Clears throat), just the time pressure.  (Stomach growls) But then I also thought when I was thinking that, that if I were not, for some reason were not coming today, and had done the same thing, I probably would have been through what I did do this morning, by 2:30 anyway.  And so uhm, then I'd be sort of at loose ends, because I wasn't coming.  So (Sigh, Sniff, Swallows) —
I have a feeling it has more to do with not coming at the end of last week, and the fact that I won't come at the end of this week.  And i—, I, maybe it's almost like I'm thinking, why bother to come for 3 days in the middle?  (Pause, Sniff)
Well, th—, I think of something else, and I think maybe this is connected, because somehow I'm trying to e—, make myself feel better by older methods.  But uhm, I was thinking of the — I suppose this is not at all surprising — but the letdown feeling I had, well, it started on Christmas.  I was busy cooking most of the day, on Christmas, and uh, then MW, FNI, and her father and sister and her children came over.  And uh, MW's, uh, FNI's father and sister came over right around the time we'd expected them.  But MW and FNI were late.  And then they, we had dinner after awhile, and I don't know, I'd cooked a lot of different things, because somehow it's just the way Christmas has always been for me.  And it seemed like I should make some kind of a special meal out of it.  But I suppose it's also part of my, making so many different things this Christmas, anyway. 
And uh, then right after — the whole thing had been that we were having dinner later, because FNI was trying to get FYH to take a nap, which she apparently didn't have.  So that not long after we'd eaten, they felt they had to leave.  And I don't know, at the time, when we were eating, I was feeding FSO right away when we sat down, so, and we had it set up sort of like a b_ buffet.  So that uh, somebody else put food on my plate for me.  And I'm not sure whether I would have felt this way if I'd served myself, because I wouldn't have served so much of some of the things.  But I just had the feeling I couldn't eat, what I'd spent so much time cooking, and that it was uh, practically nauseating to me. 
And I think this was — well, I was getting my period then — so I think th_ that was partly why I felt that way.  But uh, at some point, when I was thinking about having felt this way, I, it, the image just came to me, it was as if I were eating the baby I'd been creating, for Christmas.  And uh, then I had this terrifically strong letdown feeling when everybody left.  I don't know what I expected, but in, in a way it was good.  I was very tired, and MSCZ was tired, and FSO had to go to bed, so the timing really wasn't that bad.  But I don't know, I guess I, it was as if I wanted everybody to sit around and (Sigh) show enjoyment, but I'm not sure of what. 
I, I think it was In some way a feeling I hadn't gotten a return on all the time I'd put into getting ready for that day.  And, uh, I don't know, then I had the feeling — well, then yesterday we had to go see other relatives of MSCZ's, so that I didn't really have a chance to think much about this.  But I think I had the feeling that for this week I wanted to immediately get myself very busy, and not think. 
ANALYST:   That's what you were feeling last week, too.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true.  (Sniff, Sigh, Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, I mea—, you know, sounds very much as though what you're — you say you feel letdown, you didn't want to come, and what good is it to come for 3 days anyway.  I mean, you don't get what you want.  You connect this with everything you've been feeling and doing last week.  I think when you say it was as if you were eating a Christmas baby, you know, that's very close to what really is going on in your mind.  You had your period, to boot, as if to emphasize that you did not have the baby you wanted.  That the frantic cooking that, you know, all the cookies that you were baking and baking and baking, were all part of as though you were expressing that way, very strongly again.  You wanted to be making a baby.  But not just any baby.  I mean, there's one baby, after all, really connected with Christmas.  And you ended up Christmas day, without it.
PATIENT: (Pause) Hmm, when you say that, I just think again of this feeling I had on Christmas, and uhm, I don't know, that somehow I wanted to get the feeling, I guess, of being very special, which if I'd ended up creating a special baby, I would, I suppose, get the feeling.  But I still was expecting all my guests, to somehow create this feeling for me, and when they left, I guess I thought, after dinner they'll be around for awhile.  And then maybe still the feeling will be created.  And it never was.  And uh, I don't, I don't know, I can't understand why I'd have such a strong feeling about uhm, Jesus, or, or, I don't know, trying to create a parallel situation, or something like that. 
Well I, then I remember when you pointed out that FYR was probably the only woman that I've ever heard of who had a baby without a father, essentially.  And uh, as — well then I — the only connection I make is I migh—, i—, i—, that I would have assumed that this is the only kind of baby you could have, without a father. 
ANALYST:   Hmm, but Jesus is also Jewish.  And you remember —
PATIENT: (Interrupting) Hmm.
ANALYST:   — last week, one of the mysteries was, how could people who are not Jewish have a child who had a Jewish disease?  Or in that sense, have a Jewish child.  You were skirting around, am I Jewish, or am I German, and I think you had to settle on German, because what you were really secretly fantasying was, maybe you and I were both secretly Jewish, and we could have a Jewish child.  And it didn't happen.
PATIENT: (Pause) I don't know, I uh, uhm, all I think when you say that, is that, I mean, I suppose it is a way of denying what you're saying.  I'm not, I'm not thinking I don't, I didn't know that Jesus was Jewish, but I, but I, what I think is of the fact that I don't remember when I did know it, learn it.  But it wasn't, it was long after I'd known about Jesus for quite a number of years, and uh, I've had 2, 2 reactions to it.  Sometimes I've sort of not really taken it in that he's Jewish, I guess, or was Jewish.  And then, other times I've sort of thought it was funny that somebody like my parents could profess to believe in a religion so much based on him and his teachings, when he was Jewish.  So I guess it shows that I really was aware of it.  (2-minute silence)
Um, I don't know why I think this unless I had the same fantasy about being Jewish, that I did.  But uh, I was just thinking well, could I have been fantasizing that you and I were both Jewish, which would then, make more possible having a child like Christ.  And uhm, I started thinking about, I think I mainly felt this way sometime in high school, uhm, that if people didn't know me, or I don't know, if people looked at me and saw me for the first time, they might think that I were part Negro.  (Pause) And it seems to me, some r_ remark was made at one time, that either I overheard, or that was directly made to me.  Made me first think people th—, looked at me as having Negroid features, but uhm (Pause), I don't know, it seems like it was almost as if I wanted to think that.  (Sniff, 4-minute silence)
I don't know, I was just thinking about my attitude toward gifts, and uh, it was both, uhm, the attitude I had towards some this year.  And then in the past, because MSCZ was sort of kidding me about the fact that the attitudes were similar this year.  And how when I was younger I used to be really annoyed with my parents, or especially my mother, when — or I would admit more annoyance with my mother — but, maybe it was more with my father.  Uhm, when I didn't get what I wanted.  Now, s_ sometimes it wouldn't be that I had a particular thing in mind, sometimes it was.  But that very often the choices were things I just wasn't interested in.  And I would think, well there are so many things I'd like, and I wouldn't necessarily be specific. 
And this year, the reaction was much more over FSO than over myself.  That there were some impractical things that I don't think I showed to whoever gave them to her, but afterwards I would say something, and then MSCZ would laugh and say, well, you're being just the way you were when you were a child.  And, and I was also thinking that in contrast with that attitude is the one I've always had about Christmas, much more than anybody's birthday, of the importance of the kind of present I choose.  And I don't know, that I have to make a really special effort over everybody's gift at Christmas.  And that in some way I'm, I'm really, uh, having to prove myself, I guess, or trying to be noticed, or something like that.  (4-minute silence)
Well I, I went to thinking about uhm, I suppose writing thank-you notes to people I didn't see, who sent us gifts.  And then I started thinking about — well, it's something I could use to write the notes on, I suppose that's 1 reason why I started thinking it — but, of what, I think it was FYR who gave me this as a wedding gift, uhm, small cards with my name on it, or actually I guess she used Mr. and Mrs. MSC QSE.  Or, I can't remember whether she'd gave us 2, one with the little call cards, and the other would be just Mrs., and she had the other part blocked out.  But anyway, something of whatever she gave us, had envelopes that did not, the cards didn't fit into the envelopes, the cards were too big.  And uh, I don't know whether she realized, or there was something wrong.  Now I can't even remember for sure, but uhm, I was thinking about that. 
And then I began thinking of the fact that MEINZ and FENI, this college roommate of MSCZ's, have asked us to come over New Year's Eve, and uhm, we may have to bring FSO, and then not stay probably maybe that late.  But really what I was thinking of, is that FENI's pregnant.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   And, is MEINZ the fellow you had the fantasies about?
PATIENT: Umhmm.  Well, they also have a child who's a, about a year older than FSO.  (Silence) And I don't know wh—, I think I'm wondering this more, because of what you uhm, said earlier.  But uh, I know when I was talking about having fantasies about MEINZ before, I was thinking of it, well maybe because he's Jewish.  I was thinking he was a safer person to be allowing myself to have fantasies about. 
But then, when I think of it now, I think uh, I did a similar thing with FHU's brother, this girl that I was quite friendly with at college, and, and, the one that my mother didn't like my dating friends of hers, and so forth.  And at one point I went out with her brother a little while, and uhm, I don't know, it was one of those things where, I think, it never was anything where I thought I'd marry him.  But I enjoyed having fantasies about him in sort of a similar way that I do with MEINZ.  And uhm, so it seems like maybe it is because of their both being Jewish, but I don't know now whether it's because I thought they were safer for some other reason.    

ANALYST:   Well your mother said they're taboo.  They're out of bounds.
PATIENT: Yeah.  (Sigh, Pause) Well, then I, then I think, well then that is a, is a, as if I were, I don't know, playing at rebelling against what she, sort of the rules she'd laid down.  But that I really wasn't going to.  But I also thought well, I suppose an, an unspoken taboo that uh, was even bigger to me, was that my father was, that I assumed she was saying to me, my father was taboo, and I didn't dare fantasize, openly admit that I was, about him.
ANALYST:   Yeah, except, you know, within a very restricted way, like loving to hear him talk and feeling close to him when he talked to you.
PATIENT: (Silence) That was just, brings back, what you were just saying, that brings back another image of uhm, that well, it makes me think too, that in a way that's about the only way my father can relate, unless he's sort of jiggling a child on his knee, or something like that.  But uhm, I thought of the time — again we'd moved, so I was over 6 — and it would only be on Sundays, I think, then in the afternoon he would have several of us on his lap.  Or we'd all be sitting in a big chair, so some of us would be on his lap, and some sitting next to him, but in this one chair. 
And he'd be sort of telling us about pictures in a book, that had been his father's, and uh, I don't know, sometimes I've remembered it as having something to do with religion.  And yet right now I think of it as, it was sort of a book on anthropology, and it was showing probably etchings, of uh, different peoples all over the world.  (Sniff) But the main thing I was thinking of just now, was sitting there and hear—, hearing him talk.  (Pause)
And well I, I just get this image too, which, uh, re_ reminds me of mm, some thoughts I've had awhile ago, which I was talking about here.  But uh, I just was now thinking of, well I guess I, I was thinking that somehow it seems to me, it was just the three of us girls, and MLWZ was excluded.  And I guess I was wondering, well maybe that's why I was especially remembering that, because MLWZ wasn't part of it. And then, uh, made me think of, when I was reading the article about MJ BBK that was in the paper yesterday, uhm, and I was thinking about FNAO (Sniff), because I knew her briefly at college.  And I, well when I first started reading the article, I was wondering what had happened to her, because I knew she'd murdered her husband. 
And then at some point there was a footnote, when it was talking about the rivalry that the father had created between the 3 boys.  And th_ the footnote was sort of, maybe this related to FNAO BBK's problems, and so forth, which led to her murdering her husband.  And I don't know, when I read that, even thought I knew it, there was just this flash of, sort of understanding exactly how she must have been feeling, that led her to finally murder her husband.  (Silence) I don't know, somehow feeling that men are not to be distinguished, or that men — or any man — who are responsible for her problems and feelings, th_ that are something she can't stand having.  And so she has to do away with the source.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   (Cough, Sniff) Well, our time's up.
