TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Lots of thing happened during the week. Just thinking about, you know, right now. Friday and Saturday weren't really, you know, right there at the top of the list. They were kind of down days. The big thing is today is my anniversary, so that's a very nice day.
COUNSELOR: And how many years has it been?
PATIENT: Sixteen.
COUNSELOR: Wow, well congratulations.
PATIENT: Thanks, the other interesting thing I found is that in talking with some other people who have about the same amount of time, it's like kind of quietly saying to one another don't really want to talk about our needs because this has really been rough. This last year or so. Just very interesting to me, you know, because in a way it's like this feeling of protection, you know. You don't want to tell people knowing they're just beginning, you know, that there are going to be some, you know, rough times because in the beginning people are so oh, I feel, you know, oh I'm so grateful. It's like you never stop being grateful, but in a way it's kind of reassuring to know that, you know, there are sort of ways and stuff.
COUNSELOR: So, how has it felt difficult for you recently? (1:51)
PATIENT: Let's see Friday and Saturday were down days. I think, partly when I look back on it because Friday was the first day I didn't drink coffee. I decided to try to, you know, just see what it was like. It's not that I drink a huge amount. When I used to work in an office, I drank more.
COUNSELOR: How much do you usually drink?
PATIENT: On a usual day, I would it make it at home and have like a mug and a half. And then after that, you know, really sporadic. I mean if I happen to be out and meeting someone, you know, I might have a cup of coffee with dessert or something like that or, but I don't know. I just thought, well why not try it and let's just see what this is like. And, but part of what happened, I think, was Friday I ended up; I had notices that UPS was attempting to deliver a package. So I stayed and I also stayed off the phone because I have that calling answering system and so if they dial to deliver they get a message and they think I'm not there.
So, it was kind of a nice little ending (ph) day and I didn't really want to start anything because I thought, like, to be back in the bedroom I don't hear the bell and so it was just kind of an odd day. It just felt odd. I felt odd. Like, that wasn't necessarily anything else. And I think it's still the resume thing, but yesterday I had a real breakthrough with that and, you know, got a lot done and so I feel much better. And Friday night I met my friend Carol and that was nice to see her. So that was fun. But then Saturday after the meeting, I went over to the farmer's market and I hadn't told you last week that last Saturday, a week ago, you know, when I went over there Jerry was there and the whole family was there. I didn't tell you that. (4:12)
COUNSELOR: You didn't tell me that, no.
PATIENT: And it was interesting because it was later in the afternoon and so he was saying, oh, you know, that's my brother and my sister and there were a lot of family around. So we're all going to be getting together and there were also two nieces. His sister Janice, I know from the market, his two daughters, her two daughters must be about eight or nine. And it was really funny because toward the end when he was talking about I had taken the tape to return to him and he said, no, no that's for you I made it for you. I was like, oh, thank you.
And then, at some point, I heard the girls start teasing him and they were saying Jerry, Jerry is a scaredy cat. Jerry is a scaredy cat. And it was, like, very awkward in a way and so I sort of pretended to be looking at apples and stuff. And he started chasing them around and, you know, they were all the sisters and brothers, you know, from New York and a sister in Brooklyn and all these other people. And then he weighed the apples and I paid for them and he said, well I'll bring the other tape next week, the drum tape. So, that was very nice. It was, you know, it was fun and, you know, it was kind of interesting, you know.
I mean, it just felt fun and, but this week when I went back there was a woman there. Now I am not sure if she is their aunt. She's a young woman, but I know that she could be their aunt. The age ranges are big and it was really funny because when I got there and he was just leaving to go play with his nieces in the park, he said, oh, I forgot the tape, you know. I said, well that's fine. That's okay. And he said, I'll bring it next week. (6:12)
And then I went and picked out some apples and was kind of waiting for Janice to wait on me because she was waiting on someone else. And this woman who I think is their aunt because I think she's married to the farmer, you know, who owns the orchard, was standing there. And it's really interesting because it was really clear, like, the way she's dressed and the way she holds herself, she's kind of above them. You know, it's just real interesting.
And she saw me waiting and she came over and she said, I'll take those, ma'am. You know, and weighed them and very cool and I said something to Janice about, you know, how old are your daughters? And this woman broke in and said; oh they went to the park to play. And then her husband said, no she asked how old they are. And then, but it was like she just took over. She's like the queen of the roost, you know.
But I walked away feeling really bad and I thought okay, I mean, there was very little, I was almost going to say there was very little I could do about how bad I felt. And I thought just be with the feelings. That's what this is about because it was brewing up every painful feeling I've ever had that has to do with men. Or putting myself out there, you know, in a way.
COUNSELOR: So, how did that happen that this, how do you think that that happened that that interaction with her, that unsatisfying interaction with that family, how did the other, all these painful feelings start to come in after that? (7:54)
PATIENT: The immediate feeling was I'd done something wrong, you know. That maybe the week before, you know, that maybe I, you know, once the girls started teasing him I sort of just, I didn't look or anything because I was embarrassed and I didn't want Jerry to be embarrassed. And it was easier, I guess, or to, you know, to just be looking at the apples. And I thought, well maybe, you know, maybe the family thought I was shunning him or something. That was the immediate thought that somehow I had missed like some social cues that would have made it different.
COUNSELOR: And then [how did you feel] (ph) after that?
PATIENT: And then the other thoughts were just the feeling of pain that I felt at very specific times, like with Joe, you know, with Dan and the feeling of feeling helpless and not knowing why it had ended up feeling this painful again. Not always, I mean, with Joe there were all these reasons I could figure that out, but it was just like that nameless pain and I thought no wonder you try to protect yourself from any interaction with men because it always seems to end up like this.
And, I mean, I'm just trying to remember what was going through me as the afternoon went on. I'd felt bad before I went to the farmer's market and I had really just, I thought, no I'm not going to give into this. I'm going to, you know, energize. I'm going to get out there. I'm not going to stay in the apartment, you know. So, I picked myself up. I went to the park. I read for a while, you know, this was before I even got there. I was not feeling right. (10:00)
And then this happens. I think it was the feeling of disappointment. It was the feeling of just feeling embarrassed myself, you know. As though, you know, don't ever show that you're interested in someone, you know, because people are going to laugh at you or push you out and, you know, somehow. I'm trying not to edit, you know, those are just thoughts.
COUNSELOR: Because as you're telling it, I'm aware of how, you know, you first blame yourself and then it triggers all these negative memories. And then what actually happened, you know, I was sort of surprised to hear that that's what your reaction was because what actually happened sounded like much more vague and, like, other people were really involved and I don't get a feeling for exactly, you know, what, you know, Jerry had actually done or what you had done.
And the fact that he could have also been more assertive about, like, no I'm helping her, you know what I mean. So, the fact that you would blame yourself when, in a situation that seems more like, well maybe you could have been more assertive, but maybe he could have also been more assertive. And then, you know, how it could trigger such unhappy feelings. You know, I think that's interesting because it wasn't like he had said something rejecting. Well, the feeling was rejecting. (11:48)
PATIENT: Right, the feeling was, you know, oh I forgot the tape and, you know, I have to go now, you know, play with my nieces, you know, and take them to the park. Well, you know, that's fine, that's a responsibility. I don't take that as a personal, you know, rejection at all, but I think I was also aware of just feeling uncomfortable because maybe me coming back again wasn't, you know, that it was not something he was especially interested in anymore. You know, that maybe he was pulling back or, you know, that it made me feel just really like, you know, how silly of you to think that you could ever be...
COUNSELOR: (overlapping) See, I hear a lot more happening of what you were saying to yourself and what you're interpreting to yourself than what the events actually that occurred. Because other times you've told that you've gone back there and they'd been like, where were you last week? And, you know, always asking when you might come back. So, if you interpreted that they wanted you or I'll bring you the tape next week.
PATIENT: See, the thing I was aware of is that it was the presence of this woman because she has not been there before.
COUNSELOR: Do you think it's possible that she's involved with him? I mean, and not the aunt or something?
PATIENT: Well, she had wedding rings on and she made this, I mean, it really it was almost, it reminded me of birds and I thought, oh she's doing this for a reason. She was quite sexual, you know, in the way she was standing. Just the position of her body and she made a big point, as I was standing there, of going up to this older man, who I think is her husband, and just throwing, putting her arms around him in a very provocative way for that setting, you know. And I thought, later, I thought this is her signaling to you that she is the, you know, sort of the queen of the domain, you know, this is her husband and she's brought these people here. I don't know but that was my take of it. (14:11)
COUNSELOR: You know, I'm really wondering now if maybe that also has to do more with his reactions than him not wanting to see you as much all of a sudden after always him and his sister always wanting to see you for like months, right. Then maybe these other people's presence, like you said the last week, he seemed like maybe uncomfortable about the kids' teasing. And that woman sounds like she has quite an aura about her and may make him uncomfortable, but, I mean, did it occur to you in your thoughts that it was more about her than about him at any point? I mean, I don't know.
PATIENT: Well, you know, but this is what I got to by last night because yesterday was a good day. And what suddenly occurred to me was, wait a minute, you know, what do they all know about him that I don't? You know, you know, could this be another, you know, Tim Vine (sp?), you know, perhaps, you know, who has, you know, someone back home, you know, like if not a wife, a girlfriend, a serious girlfriend. I really, I did. I finally was able to get to that point to say wait a minute that's another take on it, you know. I wasn't discounting my own intuitive feeling for the way they were responding, but I was able to say, wait, it's really not about you, the person who I am, but about the situation and maybe there is a reason why this is not so kosher, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well yeah, I mean, and that's important, like, as a warning, like, there seems a little, the whole thing seems according to your intuition sort of a warning signal like what's going on here? (16:01)
PATIENT: Like it's changed. It's not...
COUNSELOR: However, you're, the way it made you feel was, at the time, seem like much more than just a warning signal. It set off first self-blame and then all these negative memories and you were really paying attention to it.
PATIENT: Well, that was what was different for me.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like they were pretty heavy and that if you hadn't been aware that that was what was going on you might have just felt, like, bad for the rest of the day and not even, I don't know.
PATIENT: Which in fact I did. I mean Saturday...
COUNSELOR: And not even realized, you know, why or what it was about.
PATIENT: Well, what's interesting for me is that I am trying to, you know, it's just happening more easily now is that there is an awareness, and I am able to say, oh so that even though the feelings don't go away immediately, it's not this unaware sort of domino effect, where all of a sudden I'm just gone and don't know why or how or even able to, you know, say, wait, you know, you're okay, you know. It feels bad. It feels really terrible.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like a really upsetting...
PATIENT: I was trying to think of the way to describe it to you because sometimes you say to me, well tell me how does that feel? And the only way I could think to describe it was like this thick gray, you know, like almost like a tarpaulin, you know, that was just closing in over and I couldn't look. I couldn't see. I couldn't move. It was just that. And all I was able to do when I left there I just kept walking and I just kept saying, yeah, you really feel bad right now, don't you? You really, that's really painful. (18:03)
And, you know, that's reminding me of, you know, the last time when I went to the summer theater and tried to make contact with Joe. There was one night where he kept saying he was going to come and pick me up and we'd, you know, go back to where he was living and, you know, have coffee or tea or whatever and he never showed up. And I called him two other times to see, oh well yes something has come up, but I'll be there and he never came. And I ended up being up the whole night.
It was one of the most excruciatingly painful times I've ever experienced in my life. And that was coming up and I was just able to see, you know, this isn't Joe and, you know, it's reminding me about him, but I kept walking and I walked over to the gym and I'd given my schedule away to someone else, not you. I didn't give it to you. For me and then I gave that one away. And I was browsing in the bookstore and I said, you know, you're still feeling and I could tell because I really didn't quite have the energy to even pick up any books and look at them, you know, but that's okay, let's just keep moving.
I came home and didn't feel like cooking, didn't feel and I thought you have to eat. You have to eat something. And I thought, okay, I will, you know, and I did, you know and then I just kind of watched some things that I had taped. And I just, you know, it's time to go to bed and I did try to make phone calls too, you know, to keep in touch with all people.
COUNSELOR: Was that helpful? Did you get in touch with anybody?
PATIENT: No, got a lot of machines, but that was okay.
COUNSELOR: Did you wind up talking to anybody? (19:59)
PATIENT: Yeah, I called my brother.
COUNSELOR: How was that? What was that like to talk, you know, be able to talk to someone close to you?
PATIENT: It was nice. It was nice. It was just, you know, kind of very reassuring and it was not anything deep, you know. He went for variety, you know, it was just, you know, the weather here was blah, blah, blah, but it was nice.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's something to keep in mind that, like, what things seem to make it feel, make it easier for you when you go through a cycle like that or something is set off, sad memories.
PATIENT: And I'm trying to, I mean, when I woke up yesterday morning I just knew, you know, this is a new day, you know. That was the thing that was different. It wasn't residue leftover.
COUNSELOR: Well, but I'm wondering if there is still because I'm wondering how you feel about it now, talking about it now.
PATIENT: Well, I really feel, I certainly don't feel like the gray, you know, tarpaulin over me. I noted with interest, I mean, I just think, oh wow, no wonder this is something you don't push yourself on because it's just like going through a minefield, you know. Because it, you know, I just feel so vulnerable, you know, like anything can trigger it and it's like oh, you know, let's get a little tougher skin here, you know. As far as Jerry himself goes, it's just like sure I'll go over there next week, but I'm not going to, you know, it's like...
COUNSELOR: That sounds like a little. So tell me about this party that the, oh honey get a tougher skin. (22:02)
PATIENT: Oh, it's so, you know (laugh) you are certainly sensitive aren't we, you know, why does the world feel so assaultive (ph), you know. Why? I'm not sure there's an answer to the why, but let's take care of the, you know, the result, you know. And it's just like the thing I couldn't wait to tell you was finally I got to the point of saying, you know what, she can't do that to me. You know, who does she think she is? You know, I mean, sure, fine, you know. That's fine in your world and all that, but hey first of all, Janice and I were getting to be friendly and how dare you, you know, you don't own her. On the other hand, I'm not going to do anything to upset Janice's place in there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, your voice just totally changed now when you were saying that, hey she couldn't do that to me.
PATIENT: Yeah, I really. I mean, I really felt...
COUNSELOR: I mean, your vocal quality because even when you said before, honey, get a tougher skin. It didn't sound like you really meant it.
PATIENT: No, well I think in a way because I am trying very hard not to yell at myself in anyway. Not in anyway. Not even in that way just the same.
COUNSELOR: Oh that's interesting, okay. Well that makes sense because we have talked about these like self attacks that you, these numbers that you do on yourself, like, oh I've said something, maybe I said something wrong last week. You know, I brought this on myself. It didn't really sound like it from the situation. Oh I see. So, that's why you can't really say, honey, like get a tougher skin and mean it. You want to be...
PATIENT: Well, I can mean it. I just, you know, no harshness here. It's just, you know.
COUNSELOR: I see, okay.
PATIENT: You know, this has happened and this happens for you and...(24:02)
COUNSELOR: Maybe we can rephrase it then instead of, honey get a tougher skin, maybe we can think of another way. Like, can you think of another way of saying it that would be less harsh? Something like, you know.
PATIENT: You know, this has hurt a whole lot and if you had a tougher skin, it might be easier to, not even tougher, but a more flexible membrane. It might filter out. You know, take in what you need, but.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, or try when I'm coming time for me to something like try not to let things get to you so much and it'll be easier. Something like that. Something that you can say to yourself that won't sound as harsh, but would be the same sort of thing like or you know, help protecting yourself, but with a less harsh tone to it because that doesn't have to be a punitive idea because it actually leads into the next thing, which you said which was she can't do that to me. I mean that's sort of the same idea. Like, okay I have something upsetting there to change, but she can't do that to me.
PATIENT: Right, and I'm not going to let her do it to me the next time. That's like all of a sudden I felt what happens for me in a situation like that where I perceive someone as being more powerful, you know, maybe more sexual, more, more secure in her world. And I immediately, you know, shrink to the size of a pea, you know. And it's like saying, hey, you know what, no, no. But I really was aware of that part of me too. (26:05)
COUNSELOR: At what point did that seem to kick back in? Right during the whole thing? Were you aware of that?
PATIENT: In a real kind of like oblique way, you know, but it really didn't, like it was probably Saturday night when I was taking my shower that I really was able to see how I begin to behave, you know, in a situation like that. Where I'm not able to, you know, to just sort of stand up and just be, you know. Or I do begin to sort of shrink away and become hesitant and, you know, probably my voice gets real wavery, you know. And just get a little, you know. Instead of just saying to her, oh well you know, thanks very much, but I'm waiting for Janice. You know, I just wanted to say hello to Janice.
COUNSELOR: So what does it feel like to try out that kind of a response instead of sort of being like okay or whatever you said?
PATIENT: Oh gosh, she said I had to move my apples. I like it.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping) Hey, you know, thanks, but I'm waiting for Janice.
PATIENT: Oh, it feels good. I mean it feels like I'm standing my ground.
COUNSELOR: You didn't sound, say that again. I'm standing my ground.
PATIENT: I'm standing my ground. I mean I'm able to just say what's in my mind.
COUNSELOR: See because even just saying that now I don't hear it fully. Like that sounded sort of shaky and then you're like rephrasing it. Can you say that again?
PATIENT: Right now, I have a frog in my throat. You mean what I would say to her again?
COUNSELOR: No, just say I'm standing my ground. How about trying again? (27:56)
PATIENT: I'm standing my ground. You can't bowl over me like that. I'm standing my ground and I'm here, you know.
COUNSELOR: Because that sounds more, when you first said it, it didn't sound like you were really were standing your ground, but that does. And so how does that feel?
PATIENT: Oh, it feels like, you know, this is going to take some practice, but I'm in for the duration, so, you know.
COUNSELOR: No, but what's the emotion like the...
PATIENT: It feels good. It feels like you can't do that to me. Yeah, you know. But I don't have to be, you know, harsh to you either. I can just say, no I'm here, thanks very much, but I'll wait.
COUNSELOR: It's so interesting because I'm thinking that the way that you sort of phrase things is as if it would be harsh to say something like that. Like that's not a harsh thing. It's really not a harsh thing to say.
PATIENT: But, you know, Sarah, I'm really aware that in my life, especially in my family, you know, like that was another thing I wanted to tell you. I had a phone call with my brother.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wanted to leave us some time to talk about some other stuff. So yeah why don't...
PATIENT: But it, in my family, I think I have the potential to have a very hurtful tone. And I don't really know how to say things without being, harsh things, without being either sarcastic or angry. And it's not a way I really want to be or live. And so a lot of times I've trained myself not to say the first thing that comes into my mouth because the first thing that comes into my mouth is nasty.
COUNSELOR: So, what would have been like the first thing that would come into your mind to say to that lady? (29:56)
PATIENT: Back off, bitch. (Laugh) Not socially acceptable, you know. Not that we ever talked that way in my family.
COUNSELOR: Were you aware of that at the time?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so I can see where this whole, okay, but that's probably what was really underneath, right.
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: Back off, bitch.
PATIENT: Yeah, it was like, who the hell do you think you are? I remember feeling like that.
COUNSELOR: Also it's a whole, so that's another layer that's beneath it, like, of being in a tight, you know, it ties in with what you're saying about your family and growing up. That's one of the things that keeps you back from being more genuine and just responding and holding your ground.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. And again, I mean, not that I have to defend them, we never used, you know, like street language again.
COUNSELOR: I can imagine.
PATIENT: But sarcastic and cutting and you know, don't dare have an opinion. That's a very dangerous thing to do. My family, you just don't because, you know, and it's funny because I've called, Caine. I called home; Caine's home on Monday night because Dad sent me a letter and Joseph won a grand prize in the science fair.
COUNSELOR: Is he your nephew?
PATIENT: My nephew, you know, my niece is the one who's in the newspaper every night. You know, I mean, she's just...
COUNSELOR: What does she do, the niece?
PATIENT: She's just an outstanding senior in high school. So, she's just in the newspaper all the time for, she does everything. And then there's Joseph, you know, who I think probably has a much more creative mind. Justine is a plugger. Justine is, you know, she's just going to, you know, she's just all state soccer and you know, lead in the class choir, you know, president of the school. You know, she's that kind of kid. Joseph takes longer and he's a plugger, but he has a really creative mind. (32:02)
Well, I adore both of them, but he is amazing and so it was fascinating to me that no one in the family had ever mentioned to me that he had won that. I think it's incredible for an sixth grader. Dad sent the clipping. I got it Saturday, I called Monday night. And talking to Joseph it was monosyllabic, which I don't take personally because he's going to be 12 in a week or so. So it's like...
COUNSELOR: That's how 12-year-old boys talk, right.
PATIENT: Yeah, you know, one time they'll be monosyllabic and other times they're just gab, gab, gab. It's just very uneven, you know. So, I was saying, Joseph, that's terrific. Hmm. I will confess I was feeling a bit like, okay you don't want to talk, I'm not wasting my money, good-bye, you know. So, he's, you know, uh, uh, uh through it and then Caine gets on the phone and I said, Caine, I wanted to ask you a question that was about flying home for the, you know, the big family stuff over Labor Day weekend.
He said, I've been telling you for years to come in at Springfield. I was like, thank you very much. First of all, you haven't. Second of all, that's not what I'm asking you. I didn't say that out loud of course because this is the rapier tone brother. And I said, oh well good, okay. So, you're saying Springfield fine. Good, I'll do that. How are things? Are you going to be traveling this week? Well, as soon as I get done talking with you I have to call someone to find out whether I have to go to Cleveland tomorrow. It's like sorry to intrude, sorry to take your time, good night. (33:57)
COUNSELOR: Did you say sorry to him?
PATIENT: No, I didn't because I've learned that there's nothing to be gained, you know. With Caine, I can't even talk about it, you know, he doesn't converse. It's all intimation and we've talked about this before and it's just when I hung up the phone the thing that was different was I didn't take it personally. I just thought I have no idea what's going on in their home tonight. Maybe Caine and Sue just had a big fight. Maybe Sue's just had a big fight with Joseph.
Dad told me he went out there one night this spring and Joseph had a big bruise on his face. He had ice on it. Sue had hit him. I think there's a real potential for violence there. And I just thought, you know what, you did what you could. You called Joseph, you got the information you needed. It's fine and it felt so different for me because I felt whole in myself, like I didn't get pulled into that.
COUNSELOR: So, on the one hand I'm hearing that you had a tougher skin. That you sort of took in the information and stood your ground and, you know, that you did it at the same time. That's also mixed in with your not really being allowed to have a voice.
PATIENT: Oh absolutely.
COUNSELOR: So, you know, on the one hand, you know, there's this very positive side to it and then there's the other side where, you know, it sounds like this experience that you're describing a lot of situations of feeling like no matter what you say, it's not going to have really an impact or you're not able to change what...
PATIENT: Right, it's the steamroller. You know, just rolls right on over, which makes me crazy. (36:05)
COUNSELOR: So, it sounds like there's a lot of different, like, rules and things that go into how you're reacting to people when you're, you know, feeling like they're steamrolling you or hurting you or something. And I'm thinking about what would it be like for you to just try to stay in more genuine.
PATIENT: Well, what I've been feeling gradually during the time we've been working together is less and less fear to do that. Because, I think, I've gotten to a point in my life where there's nothing to lose. I mean, except myself and I'm not willing to do that anymore. And, you know, when I said that before about I may not do it right. I may not, you know, it may not come out right, but I know when I go back there on Saturday, it's not to get anything from Jerry. It's about standing my own ground, you know.
And if that woman is there and does the same thing, I really will just say, you know, I haven't met you before, you know, and I've just recently gotten to know Janice and Jerry. My name's Jane. I haven't met you before. In other words, who are you? You know, identify yourself to me because and like I say I really would not want to jeopardize Janice's, you know, whatever that dynamic is that goes on, you know. (38:00)
COUNSELOR: So, we know that when you said about hi, my name is Jane, now this has come up before in our meetings and your name came out all sort of swallowed and soft. And there it just sounded more even and strong when you said your name.
PATIENT: Well, I've been practicing.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay, well it shows.
PATIENT: I've, you know, I know that part of the down feeling is the feeling of, you know, it's never going to change, you know. This is just a permanent condition. Even as I say that, I know that's not true, but that's the feeling, the feeling of, you know, it's just...
COUNSELOR: What's never going to change?
PATIENT: Being able to be fully in the world. To be genuinely who I am no matter what in whatever situation. To feel, I mean, I was just so aware on Saturday of how lonely I feel and it was really funny, you know, in making the phone calls and trying to make contact with people realizing, you know, that this really is a transition time in my life. That so many of the people who are friends either have moved away or their lives have changed or I've changed. And there isn't, like, a new layer of people in place yet. You know, and I'm still trying to develop new friendships with people and because my friend Becky's mother has Alzheimer's so she's out in Manhattan a lot. You know, just life situations. (40:21)
COUNSELOR: Yeah we were talking about that last week about how once you realized how things have sort of gotten smaller and that you were ready to, you know expand.
PATIENT: Yeah and, you know, I call Jen's mother yesterday. I wanted to wish here a happy Mother's Day and I hadn't done that in awhile and I thought, no, you know, I really have withdrawn in many ways and I have to take the actions because there are a lot of people who I can call and say, hi how are you? You know, it's not, you know, I have to be taking the actions, you know. That's why I called Jen, you know, I want to stay in closer touch with people at school and the two tutors who are really nice. And one is single and one is married, but really nice people. So, it's just saying, yeah okay.
COUNSELOR: That was another thing that you got in touch with over this weekend was the underlying feelings of loneliness and...
PATIENT: Well, I've been aware of that for a while.
COUNSELOR: But I mean it started out with that, this past weekend or not more than usual? (41:44)
PATIENT: What I was, was really aware that that was such a big part of the feeling and that a lot of the negative feelings that were kicked up in that incident in the park and at the farmer's market was just that feeling of wanting to connect, of wanting to be part of, you know, of loneliness, you know. That that is the drive when Jerry says, you know, oh, you know, and then that's something that I really, I don't know how or where I've (inaudible at 42:38) in my life.
COUNSELOR: But it is something that we've talked about here, you know, last week. And talking about connection and genuine, being genuine. I'm wondering about how you feel in here as far as being genuine and being connected?
PATIENT: I feel like I'm myself here. Like, I don't feel that I come in with any agenda, you know, that I just come in where I am and try to unfold that somehow with you. And I do feel connected with you and I do find room (ph) and we both think oh, you know, she told Sarah that. Of course, I don't because there's not enough time. So, I do feel connected to you and.
COUNSELOR: Oh, and what's helping Jim (ph) to be genuine or really trying to maintain a sense of connection in here with me? (44:01)
PATIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: What's your feeling of being like more, because you're saying that your, before that it's hard for you to stay genuine and with others in the world in your interactions like?
PATIENT: Well, I wouldn't say that as a general rule. I mean, with my friends it's not true.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so it's more in these situations where you feel like you're being sort of attacked or like with the woman...
PATIENT: Or judged.
COUNSELOR: Or judged?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's funny when you said that, you know, my back went right up because it's certainly not true in friendships that I have with people because I'm really, the friends I have I know I'm connected with emotionally. You know, like Danielle or Jen or Becky or Carol or Vivienne (sp?). I don't feel in those friendships that I'm not genuine. But I think that in situations like a work situation or like with men or in a situation like in the park where it's a whole group thing. I feel awkward and I don't...
COUNSELOR: Or with your brother saying...
PATIENT: Oh well, my family (inaudible at 45:29) that goes without saying. I mean, that's like...
COUNSELOR: It's just that these are the topics we've been talking about today, so that's what was on my mind that, you know, about your brother and about the farmer's market. So those are what I was thinking about.
PATIENT: Yeah, and actually even as you're saying that what I realize is that it would be very hard for me except with Danielle to talk with a close friend about if I were angry with them. You know, so that would affect the genuineness because anger is genuine. (46:11)
And the thing that's going through my mind as you say that is my voice. It's what happens to my voice if I ever try to talk about anything emotional.
COUNSELOR: Because I'm feeling like I really pushed a button.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's making me think and rethink, you know, what my assumptions are and what's the reality. And maybe my assumptions are a certain thing and maybe it's not true.
COUNSELOR: Because like right now I did feel like you were upset with me for, on some level, that I hadn't understood that you didn't feel that way in a lot of other, you know, that you felt genuine in other situations...
PATIENT: (overlapping) Yeah, when I heard it...
COUNSELOR: It's like I sort of felt like...
PATIENT: Well, what I heard you saying was like a blanket statement was that in all areas of my life, you know, that I'm not genuine and that that was when I heard.
COUNSELOR: Right, I know and then I felt like, I mean, I felt like oh, okay, you know. I felt like you are upset that I hadn't really understood that you didn't mean that you don't feel that way in all situations.
PATIENT: But, in a way, what I think is good is I was able to say that back to you right away.
COUNSELOR: And then we can like talk about it. (47:56)
PATIENT: Yeah, because I think at other times in my life, I wouldn't have been able to even say, you know, say anything like wait a minute. You know, I need to clarify that with you or that's not how I feel about myself in all situations. So, and on the other hand, I have to hear that and say, wait a minute, you know, this could be an aspect of my relationships with people that I need to look at because maybe I think I'm being genuine and maybe I'm not.
COUNSELOR: Well, I also see it sort of as a continuum and I think probably very few people are totally genuine very much of the time. I see it more like a continuum. And that people are constantly striving to stay in touch with what's more genuine and stay there. So, when I said it, I was thinking of it more in that sense, but then seeing your reaction and then, it was so interesting because then seeing that okay, so maybe I made a mistake. But then seeing that you, you know, maybe I misunderstood, but then seeing that in fact it was provoking some thought and the reason why it was like, but no, you know, the fact that I didn't understand seemed like a problem had to do with maybe I did understand at some level. And, you know, that that then would lead to examining. (40:31)
PATIENT: Because, you know, what I'm thinking about right now, for instance, is like in the work situation when I worked at the humane society, you know, so much of the time I really felt, you know, just sort of like covered over with a blanket. I mean I just never felt connected in many ways with what I was doing. I could do it. I did it. And one of the only times I ever did, you know, remain genuine was when my boss, Kitty, was telling me that I was going to have to fire one of my assistants or, you know, somehow get rid of her. And I stood up at that time and I said well if you do that then you're going to have to replace two people.
You know, and I was really firm because I thought they were giving her a bum rap. But that, what you've touched on is something that I'm aware of, but when I think of my friends that are not the area I think of it in. It's in these other areas like work and, you know, some other...
COUNSELOR: Before we wrap up, even though we're a couple of minutes late. I just wanted to know what did it feel like for you that maybe I didn't understand and I had touched on a nerve and I didn't really understand the situation that you don't feel like you're not genuine in a general sense?
PATIENT: Oh, I think my immediate reaction was oh, wait a minute, but wait. That's not how I feel. That was my immediate reaction was to say wait, Sarah, you know, like subtext, subtext. You know, wait a minute, I hear you saying this, but that's not how I am really. I'm genuine in all areas of my life because that's what it was sounding like. And I wanted to clarify.
COUNSELOR: That's like the intellectual, what about the feeling? What was the feeling when you felt like I had said something that was sort of off base? (51:57)
PATIENT: Like oh wait a minute. That was it, the feeling like...
COUNSELOR: Was it like shock or sort of a...
PATIENT: Panic maybe. I mean, that's the first word that comes up is, like, oh wait a minute, wait a minute is that really what you think I'm like? You know, I'm trying to think back to the very moment when you said that. But, like, wait a minute, you don't really think I'm like that, do you?
COUNSELOR: So, like wanting me to understand better than that.
PATIENT: Yeah, or clarify or, you know, just yeah, I suppose. I need to say, wait, no this is who I am or how I feel I am. Maybe, but then I have to say, well but maybe that's who I think I am, but maybe it's not how I'm perceived.
COUNSELOR: So, it led to this whole examination of how much of that's true and not true.
PATIENT: Right
COUNSELOR: And I think it's interesting because it brings up, like, what feeling like understood or feeling not quite understood is like and you need to talk about it. So I think, you know, I think it's brought up some interesting...
PATIENT: Yeah, because it is. It's a responsibility that I have to say, oh wait. I mean it really does fit in with the farmer's market thing to say wait, wait.
COUNSELOR: Right, like right on the spot being able to react and it also has to do with genuineness because that feels very genuine for me to be able to say, okay well, you know, let's look at this, you know, what happened just now. Let's talk about what really your experience is, you know, and who do I might think you are so. So, it's interesting being genuine and talking about genuineness. Okay. (53:58)
PATIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
