TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: The past couple of days I've just had periods of feeling really depressed for no apparent reason.
THERAPIST: When is that feeling popping up that you've noticed?
CLIENT: Yesterday it happened when I was going to work. Once I started working I felt better but then later in the afternoon it popped up again. The day before, it was also in the afternoon.
THERAPIST: While you were still at work or were you home?
CLIENT: I was home.
THERAPIST: Both days? And how long did it last?
CLIENT: Sometimes it didn't last that long. Yesterday it sort of came and went and was there for a few hours, at least.
THERAPIST: When you say, "Really depressed," what do you mean?
CLIENT: It actually was on and off but not really feeling too settled, per se. With my hand, when I was in more pain it was worse; but just wanting to curl up in a ball and cry and not do anything useful. I had rehearsal last night and I didn't go, but part of that is the whole "it's summer—I shouldn't have to be rehearsing anyway so these rehearsals are all optional," so it wasn't like I felt too bad I was skipping it. I just didn't feel like leaving the house. 0:01:38
THERAPIST: Is that part of why you were feeling upset, you think?
CLIENT: Because I had to go to rehearsal.
THERAPIST: And not wanting to go?
CLIENT: Maybe, but I was still feeling—I don't know. That might have been part of it, and I was just overwhelmed. And then Sydney got glasses; he finally, finally got glasses today.
THERAPIST: Overwhelmed you said. What was overwhelming? What did you feel overwhelmed by?
CLIENT: On Wednesday was like, "Oh, my God. I need to do the dishes and my hand hurts and I can't. I guess Thursday that was part of it, too, since I didn't get them all done on Wednesday. It's not like I have that much to do and maybe also building up stuff from the fact that I still haven't been applying to any jobs lately. Also, I was trying to get online on Tuesday [for Verizon] (inaudible at 0:02:41) because my phone is due for an upgrade—to see if I could do it online. I didn't have the password and I had to get that from my mom. Now I have that. She was all like, "Oh, well, if you are more aggressive about applying for jobs I will pay for your upgrade." I was like, "Mom, this phone is already really discounted. It's just going to be $50 I'm paying for." Fifty dollars is really not that much motivation. I ended up not even doing it anyways because I would have to change my contract, as Verizon no longer offers the unlimited 3G wireless data plan. 4G would be the new one. I'm holding off until the last possible moment, which is October now. It was just like, "Really? Do you have to make this about jobs, too?" I was planning on paying for this with my own money. Why do you have to make this about jobs? 0:03:43
THERAPIST: So you're really upset with her?
CLIENT: I was upset with her. I didn't say anything about it other than when I was just like, "No. I'm just doing this with my own money;" and then I didn't, so it doesn't matter. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: So it doesn't seem like it's for no good reason.
CLIENT: [...] (inaudible at 0:03:57)
THERAPIST: There is a lot that's kind of going on under the surface all of the time for you right now. Some of the things just in five minutes that you've rattled off: You feel pressure and guilt about not applying for jobs; you feel angry at your mom for bringing it up; you felt frustrated with Sydney up until he got his new glasses; you, it sounded like, feel some resentment for music rehearsals; it sounded like your hand is still hurting off and on. That's five good reasons that I remember. You may have said other things that I've forgotten because I can only hold so much in my head at one time, but those are five big things that carry a lot of emotional weight for you that you have been carrying for quite a while. It makes sense to me that you would feel like you want some sort of escape from it, whether that's curling up in a ball and crying, which is a way of releasing and escaping or contemplating—sometimes those thoughts of killing yourself kind of float through your head because it feels like an escape. That's a lot to carry. 0:05:37
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like I'm so [...] (inaudible at 0:05:41) too many ways. Are things going to get better? If my hand is still hurting I could work for three hours and I can do things for those three hours and I'm productive. Then I go home and my hand is hurting again so, if I were doing an eight hour day, it would not work. So if I apply for these jobs, a) it will hurt my hand to type up the cover letters and all that. 0:06:14
THERAPIST: It could be you're afraid to apply because you don't trust that it's going to get better. So it becomes both a good reason to avoid applying for jobs and something that scares you at the same time.
CLIENT: I realize in retrospect that the thing that I really wanted the doctor to say was I wanted him to give me a referral for physical therapy and have the physical therapist tell me the exercises I needed to do to strengthen my hand so it wouldn't hurt any more. That was actually the ideal, not to be, "This pain is not damaging your hand."
THERAPIST: Sometimes you don't know what it is you want to hear until you don't hear it.
CLIENT: I asked him about this physical therapy and he said, "No," and just forgot about that. I would think I would have been happier with that.
THERAPIST: Because it would have felt like something you could do. It would have felt like something in your control you could go and do; have the appointments and have a specific set of things to do to make it better. 0:07:21
CLIENT: Maybe if it's still hurting when I see him in a month he will actually recommend something. I'm just really, really worried about everything. Sunday is Tisha B'Av; really it starts Saturday night right after Shabbat ends. This year I'm just totally not wanting to celebrate it at all. I'll go to the services. I don't want to fast, but I don't really have a reason for not fasting, other than I don't feel like it. Now I'm feeling really guilty about that. I guess part of it is that it comes off of Shabbat and usually Shabbat afternoon I can't cook so I don't eat as much as I normally would. Then when Shabbat is over, I can make a big meal; and I can't do that.
[...] (crosstalk at 0:08:13)
CLIENT: Part of it is that it doesn't really mean anything to me anymore and I just feel guilty that I shouldn't still be doing it if it doesn't.
THERAPIST: What doesn't mean anything to you?
CLIENT: The holiday.
THERAPIST: That particular holiday?
CLIENT: That particular holiday. It's just the stupidest holiday ever. It's just like all bad things that happened to the Jews ever—we're going to say they all happened on this one day, even though they didn't. Mourning for the temple that no one who is celebrating this holiday now remembers, since none of us were alive for it and not everybody even thinks will be rebuilt, certainly not in their lifetimes. [Lamentations] (inaudible at 0:09:01) are fine but then the poems are so long and boring and they're in this weird, I guess rabbinical Hebrew—convoluted sentences, trying to make things into acoustics. Even the English translations would have as much meaning. They're just long and boring and you just sit there and mumble them. They try to bring more meaning by having somebody who can talk about it and say a little thing about what it means. They're still just as long and boring. The night services, there are only just a few of them, but the day service there are a ton because you're not going to be doing anything else today. Then you fast all day and I just don't want to; but I feel guilty not doing it.
THERAPIST: Where do you think the guilt comes from? 0:10:05
CLIENT: Somewhere inside of me and/or possibly the feeling of being judged.
THERAPIST: Judged by?
CLIENT: Other people who are religious who are actually celebrating this holiday and who think that I'm religious. And here I am just deciding not to celebrate this holiday any more.
THERAPIST: Particular other religious people or nameless faces? 0:10:23
CLIENT: No, just in general, because it's not like they're going to see me. It's not like I'm going go to my parents' house and eat in front of them on Shabbat, and if it's with [inaudible] will be eating because she's not Jewish. You're allowed to drive, you're allowed to spend money, you're allowed to do everything pretty much but eat and a few other things. We might just go out to a restaurant or something so we're not eating in front of people who are not eating on Tisha B'Av, but I still feel guilty.
THERAPIST: So you've made your decision not to fast.
CLIENT: I think I've made the decision not to fast. It's still reversible up until the time that I start eating.
THERAPIST: I'm just trying to get a sense of where you are.
CLIENT: I will definitely fast up until the beginning of Tisha B'Av and through services because I am reading something on Saturday night and, therefore, I don't know if it would invalidate things if I didn't fast; but I don't want to risk it and it's not like it will be that much longer to go without food. Then I can just go get food after services, so it's not that big a deal. Last year I ended up breaking the fast maybe three hours earlier because I was in pain and starving. It wasn't really worth it. I'm like, "Okay, I will do the fast and break the fast early;" but now it just really has no meaning for me anymore. It's completely disconnected. I'm just like, "Why do I have to do this?" 0:12:11 If it's Yom Kippur I like Yom Kippur and I don't mind fasting on Yom Kippur because it is an interesting quality with lots of cool stuff going on. Fasting is part of it and I can deal with that. Also usually you have this big pre-fast meal, which I can't really do tomorrow. I'll drink a little bit of water, but for the most part I'm not eating on Yom Kippur and that's totally fine. 0:12:46
THERAPIST: It sounds like what it is really about, for you, finding the meaning of the holiday and whether or not it makes sense in your head to connect that to fasting. You're saying this holiday doesn't hold meaning for you.
CLIENT: It's really just callous of me and horrible because of blah, blah, blah all the stuff that happened to the Jewish people, but I guess I understand remembering it. There are minor fast days, too, that I don't do, but that's for health reasons and stuff. Those you can get out of with something as small as a headache. But Tisha B'Av you're supposed to fast as much as you physically can without physically hurting yourself. I'm not actually hurting myself by not eating; it's just not comfortable for a while and sucks. The minor fast days also—okay, it's bad that that happened at this time many years ago, so now we're fasting. 0:13:56
THERAPIST: What's the connection between fasting and remembering the event?
CLIENT: That's what the holiday is set up to do. [...] (inaudible at 0:14:08) because she fasted before she went and saw the king and she had everyone else fast with her so God would not have her get killed. Therefore, we fast in honor of that. That one makes sense. But the other ones were like: One of them was this was the day the walls to the city of Jerusalem were breached. This is the day that the temple was destroyed. This is the day that the last sovereign Jewish government was overthrown by conquering invaders. Those are the three other ones.
THERAPIST: So the way you talk about it doesn't sound like it makes sense for you. The actual fast doesn't hold meaning because it doesn't feel connected, except for ... 0:15:00
CLIENT: And I guess it's because I haven't been doing it for some years because I'm not supposed to do it. I haven't done it since junior year of college and that was 2005. It's been seven years since I've done any minor fast days. I've just sort of completely forgotten that those exist. We had one a few weeks ago and I completely ignored it. I saw it on the calendar and I'm like, "Oh, yeah. Okay," and did absolutely nothing about it.
THERAPIST: And felt okay or felt guilty?
CLIENT: And felt okay.
THERAPIST: So what makes this one different? Why the guilt about this one?
CLIENT: Because I don't have a medical excuse and because it's a more important holiday. Because it's not just something binary, it's commemorating all the bad things that ever happened to the Jews ever. 0:16:06
THERAPIST: I'm trying to understand if it's that that doesn't hold meaning—because you said, "We pick this random day," even if it's not really the day that these things happened.
CLIENT: It's not totally a random day. Some of the things actually did happen on that day and they just decided that everything also happened on that day.
THERAPIST: Would you feel different about finding a different way to commemorate those events? Is there a way that it would have meaning for you?
CLIENT: I don't even know. I don't think so. Fasting or going to services—and I feel fake going to services if I'm not fasting—it would be because the whole point of the holiday is to be miserable. I guess I'm miserable enough being depressed that I don't want to be more miserable. Maybe I'd feel differently if I were more mentally stable. I feel like I shouldn't have to go through extra effort to make my life miserable. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: You know what makes sense is that as you said it, it brought tears to your eyes so, clearly, it doesn't matter whether it makes sense to me. The questions I ask, I ask so that you can figure out what makes sense for you. It's not about whether it makes sense to me; but the fact that as you said that it brought you to tears shows me that that resoThomass for you and that's what's true for you. You're afraid and feel like you're miserable enough right now and dealing with enough; and you don't feel like you're able to take on extra suffering right now. 0:17:51
CLIENT: In minor fast days you fast and go about your day. You're fasting and you're sort of aware of the fact that you're fasting and you're like, "I'm hungry," but you go about your day. You're not supposed to wear leather shoes. You're not supposed to have sex. You're not supposed to shower; you can shower right beforehand instead. You're supposed to anoint yourself with oil, which some people have expanded upon it and now it includes things like deodorant; but then rabbis were like, wait, if people aren't wearing deodorant then they will smell. Therefore, you can wear deodorant. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: They're expanding it to not put on lotions and perfumes.
CLIENT: And things like that. You're supposed to be mourning. During the night time and up until the afternoon you're not even supposed to sit in regular chairs. They have these special low chairs that they'll bring out for Shiva and stuff that you're sitting closer for. They're really weird. And it's either that or you sit on the floor or a cushion on the floor or the bed, but you're not supposed to sit in regular chairs. 0:19:17
THERAPIST: Lots of traditions are on suffering, empathizing with suffering.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you are suffering. So maybe you don't need these ways.
CLIENT: And they made sense back in the time when some of these things were luxuries—like the not bathing thing—but now these things are normal day-to-day necessities.
THERAPIST: And not extravagances.
CLIENT: Yeah. And really the only one I like that wasn't an extravagance to begin with was the whole [...] (inaudible at 0:19:54) . That one kind of makes sense. Yes and no. The not having sex also makes sense, it's just not like it's ever come up until this year. Sydney is feeling better and if he's feeling up to doing sexual things on Tisha B'Av I'm not going to not do them just because of this holiday because it's been long enough anyways. He doesn't really care. It just seems like okay, if you are a couple and you're having sex all the time and you take a break this one day, that's fine. I bet that there are even rabbis that, if there is a couple that is orthodox and they're dealing with infertility and this is the one day where the wife could get pregnant, they probably would overrule the not having sex for that couple for that Tisha B'Av because babies are important. I'm pretty sure. It really is a holiday and you're so bored and you're not even supposed to read fun things. That stuff I sort of like, because I was like okay, I'm going to fast. If I'm going to fast, I'm not going to go insane. Yes, I'm going to Internet. Yes, I'm going to read. Yes, I'm going to knit so as to keep me from eating because that was the older, more official rule and now these are expansions. 0:21:43 When Harry Potter came out with the seventh book it was during the nine days—it was during the nine days or it was right before Tisha B'Av itself—theoretically I shouldn't have been reading it, but I wanted to. I actually asked a rabbi and she said it was okay. On Tisha B'Av itself you're not supposed to study Torah. You're supposed to be miserable and bored. Bored. And that's the part that annoys me because you'll be bored. You have those same restrictions—well some of the same restrictions—you don't have the miserable and bored part.
THERAPIST: You have a lot of those restrictions in Shabbat.
CLIENT: Yeah. But like the no having sex, no bathing, no anointing yourself, no wearing leather shoes apply to Yom Kippur, too. And no eating. But you're in services and there is really pretty music and you're allowed to actually be happy and [...] (inaudible at 0:22:45) because you can and you should. It's just that most people don't do things like that because the services are so long and they take up almost the entire day. Theoretically you're supposed to go to all the services. For Tisha B'Av you don't even have services taking up the entire day and you can go to work if you have to, otherwise you're supposed to sit around being bored. Also, Sunday is our six-month anniversary which we, theoretically, are celebrating Sunday night after Tisha B'Av and it's Monday. I figured this out. 0:23:29
THERAPIST: It's a really bad timing issue.
CLIENT: Really bad timing.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like you have felt disconnected from this holiday for a while.
CLIENT: Last year was fine during the whole Tisha B'Av thing and I ended up breaking it early. In previous years I have done the whole "I am going to use the Internet so I don't go insane" thing, but at least I kept the fast of all the other real rules.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about defining for yourself how you want to celebrate and what holidays have meaning to you?
CLIENT: I feel like if I do that I'm a bad Jew. You're not supposed to pick and choose what you want. Do you actually want to consider yourself religious? If you want to consider yourself not religious or whatever ... 0:24:16
THERAPIST: Do you want to consider yourself religious?
CLIENT: I have up until now and now I'm not for the whole kosher food thing and then I figured out what I was comfortable with and got over not being comfortable with things.
THERAPIST: I wonder if you're thinking about how you define yourself may be something that's changing in your life right now. We talked when you were reconsidering the kosher laws that you were going to continue to follow. That was a big piece for you, figuring out why are you doing what you're doing? What makes sense for you now? Is it different than what made sense in another part of your life? And there have been times in your life when you have observed differently. Maybe you're reaching a phase of your life where you need to renegotiate again for yourself what makes sense. 0:25:33
CLIENT: I guess I've been sort of disconnected from Judaism in general. I haven't really been going to services or doing anything lately other than not breaking Shabbat, not me breaking [...] (inaudible at 0:25:37) . I haven't been doing anything active; I've only been doing passive things.
THERAPIST: So what's prompted that? What has stopped you from being more active?
CLIENT: Laziness.
THERAPIST: That's a very judgmental word.
CLIENT: Not feeling like going to [shul] (ph) and not signing up and being tired. Part of it is Sydney, too. Part of it is in the summer he doesn't want to go to [shul] (ph) because the upstairs where we pray is not air conditioned; he overheats real easily so he can't stay for that long, which makes it perfectly legitimate. I don't really have that excuse. I just don't go. (chuckles) I've just been sleeping in a lot and not signing up to read Torah.
THERAPIST: Do you miss it?
CLIENT: Sometimes. Sometimes not. I'm sort of upset I wasn't able to do it last week because I was at my parent's. There were all the cool things that happened that I wanted to be able to read and couldn't. On a normal week I don't really care that much. Another thing, even if I were [...] (inaudible at 0:26:44) it's not like I'm meeting them at [shul] (ph). We're not playing dominion and stuff. I need something to do. I just don't feel like going to [shul] (ph) anymore. Even when I do go, I get there early enough that people aren't freaked out by me not being there yet because they need me to read Torah. I stay as long as I need to read Torah and the rest of the Torah reading and then I usually leave right after, even though there is a significant amount of services that come after that. I usually don't stay. I guess I've just been so withdrawn from the world I haven't been going to Shabbat dinners and lunches at people's houses like the same way I did when I was at [panner] (0:27:33), even when I was first [...] (inaudible at 0:27:35) . Now I'm eating with Sydney all the time and if we get invited to a Shabbat dinner we'll go to it. We went to one [...] (inaudible at 0:27:43)
THERAPIST: You used to [...] (inaudible at 0:27:46) . That's something I used to hear you talk about almost every week.
CLIENT: I just don't do it anymore. We have Friday night. I really have to cook Friday night dinner, but we have Friday night dinner at our house. Saturday lunches, people don't really make Saturday lunches in the community because they all go to [shul] (ph) and they stay for Kiddush and then they're just like [...] (inaudible at 0:28:15) a lot of food. It would be enough, in theory, but I don't like having to stay in services that long. Even before I started dating Sydney I would usually leave early and not stay for Kiddush. There were lots of people. I don't know enough of them and it's all awkward and I hate being in awkward situations. The way to deal with awkward situations is to not put yourself in them in the first place. Rather than trying to have to make conversations with those strangers or feel weird about not talking to people and eating ...
THERAPIST: You just avoid the whole thing. 0:28:53
CLIENT: Yeah. Which is fine.
THERAPIST: It's fine as long as you feel okay about it. I think figuring out what feels right for you, there is no authority saying you have to be observant or you have to be this or you have to be that. You get to make a decision about what is right for you and then live out what you feel is appropriate to match what you've chosen for yourself.
CLIENT: It does seem like I'm becoming more and more disconnected from different things in Judaism. Why would I even consider myself Jewish when I'm not doing anything?
THERAPIST: Do you want to be more connected?
CLIENT: I don't know. Not when it involves effort in doing things I don't want to do.
THERAPIST: Is that because you're feeling depressed or is that because you're not feeling Jewish?
CLIENT: I guess more because I'm feeling depressed. I don't think I could ever not identify it as Jewish the way my brother does. He does not consider himself Jewish at all. 0:30:11
THERAPIST: So I'm wondering, withdrawing from things—that can be a sign of depression. Not feeling like you have any energy or motivation to do things can be a sign of depression. So is this not wanting to go and do? And is this withdrawing a piece of depression or is it a piece of a changing identity? If it's changing identity, you want to match up how you're identifying yourself with what you're expecting yourself to do. If these are symptoms that we should be working against because this is depression talking and not changing how you see yourself or how you want to practice, we need to treat the depression.
CLIENT: I really don't want to do Tisha B'Av because it really seems like the point of the holiday is to make yourself depressed.
THERAPIST: I think you sort of started talking about one thing just with this holiday coming up and expanded it to something else. I'm certainly not pressuring you to observe a holiday that doesn't make sense for you. It sounds like you've pretty much decided not to observe the holiday, and there is no sense feeling guilty about it because that doesn't do anything. It doesn't make you more observant, it just makes you feel badly about what you've chosen, so I think making a choice for this particular holiday that feels right for you—it sounds like you already made that choice. Figuring out whether this general withdrawal is about Judaism or your Jewish identity or depression, that's a separate question. I don't think celebrating Tisha B'Av or not factors into that. 0:31:59
CLIENT: I don't know if my withdrawal is depression. I'm going to work. I went to work on Wednesday and I went to work on Thursday. I got things done.
THERAPIST: So you haven't completely withdrawn from everything, but you haven't been applying to stuff. And that was something that was never an enjoyable thing, but it was something that you were able to motivate yourself to do and you haven't been able to for over a month now, I think.
CLIENT: There are a couple of little jobs that I applied to less than a month ago but, in general, yes. I don't really have that many things going on outside the house so one of those things is music but it shouldn't be happening in the summer. If it were during the school year I would be like, "Okay, I'm totally going to rehearsal," but because it's during the summer and I'm opposed to this and normally we have the summer off. This is just people being like, "Oh, rehearsal is fun, therefore we should have more of them." 0:33:09
THERAPIST: Rehearsal is not fun for you?
CLIENT: It can be, but I think having the summer break makes me appreciate it more during the school year and I'd rather have the summer off. I feel like my vacation is being taken away from me, even if I am not working that much and have all this other free time. My vacation from music is being taken away from me. I understand having the rehearsals at the end of summer leading up to the concerts that we're going to do for the [...] (inaudible at 0:33:38) . For the weekend the freshmen get here, recruiting people try to find new members. That is important. Those make sense. These open rehearsals, "Let's get people from the community to come up and sing with us," don't make sense. Because they're optional and because, okay, if we're having an open rehearsal it can't be that important because we're inviting other people in and doing more fun things rather than seriously doing boring things, working on all of our music to get all of our parts perfect, having the altos sing those two measures 50 times until they get it perfectly. You don't really do that in an open rehearsal. The open rehearsals are like, "Let's have fun and learn this piece of music." So, therefore, I'm like, "Why are we doing this?" And I'm not sure. We were going to record but then the recording equipment is broken, so we're not going to record until it's fixed. We had all these open rehearsals leading up to what would have been our recording date and I was like, "Why are we doing this? Why aren't we having serious rehearsals if you want us to sound good?" And Dusty was like, "Oh, we can practice on our own with the clip drives." I'm like, "That's such a bad idea." You need other people for it to make sense and people don't actually do that. That's not true. Some people actually do practice outside of rehearsal. I am not usually one of them. 0:35:07
THERAPIST: This is the most energetic I've heard you all session. You're pretty fired up about this.
CLIENT: It's just so counterproductive to have these. I guess things got inflated. Because in previous summers we have had community sing and it's been maybe once a month. So you have a couple of them over the summer and that's fine. But they're like, "We want to do community singing. We want to record. We want to have these rehearsals."
THERAPIST: So lots of stuff.
CLIENT: Lots of stuff and having open rehearsals at the same time as the recording, though I guess the recording isn't happening or something. If we're having rehearsals every week multiple times a week just as we would during the school year, that's not cool. It should be, "Okay, fax everything that you can come to." I guess it's good that they're optional. I've only gone to one this entire summer because I've just been not motivated to go to any of them. Thursday I just didn't want to and so I didn't go. 0:36:14
THERAPIST: What are you feeling right now as you talk about that?
CLIENT: I guess annoyance. I do feel somewhat bad about skipping rehearsals. I guess because they didn't make it rehearsals being a serious way, I have a hard time taking it seriously and thinking of it seriously.
THERAPIST: So—annoyed.
CLIENT: They are passive-aggressive rehearsals. That's what they are. "Oh, you should come. Well you don't have to come, but we'd really like you to come." They're passive-aggressive rehearsals that shouldn't be existing in the first place. And they want me to do all the things and I haven't done anything.
THERAPIST: So annoyed, resentful. 0:37:18
CLIENT: I'm just having a hard time even motivating myself to update the website. I really need to update the website. That won't take too long and that's easy. I don't need to leave the house to update the website, but I haven't even updated the website yet.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's hard to do things for something that you're mad at.
CLIENT: I mean I like playing around with websites.
THERAPIST: But you're mad at music. It's being passive-aggressive with its rehearsals so you don't want to do its website.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I'm supposed to arrange a song, in theory, and he wants me to write an outline and I haven't even had a chance to go over and re-listen to the song a thousand times so I can figure out what I'm doing with it. I was like, "Yeah, I haven't gotten anything done yet." And Thomas was fine with that but, still, I felt badly about it. I guess also because we didn't really do formal song selection and it isn't a sure thing. It's like if I arrange it, then we can do it, but I'm just not feeling the motivation; not feeling motivation in my life at all. There is also a lot of feeling like a failure for not taking a job and then I don't feel motivated to try and get one. Right now when I looked at the job list this week there weren't really any positions that stuck out as things that I thought I would be qualified for and that would work for me. I'm just not doing anything. I've also been feeling tired a lot of the time and I don't know why. 0:39:00
THERAPIST: So I'm hearing lots of symptoms of depression, which doesn't mean that you're in a full-blown depressive episode, but I don't think all these different feelings that are going on for you and reactions to things are separate from one another. It's like there are pieces here. They are not consistent enough to clinically say this is a depressive episode because these feelings have been around for a long time but you do have breaks from them. And, like you said, you're motivating yourself to do some stuff. There will be days when you, before your hand hurt, that you dyed a lot of wool or that you sent off a package or that you completed an order. You've gone to work. You're also carrying around a lot of resentment. You're having a hard time motivating yourself to do other things. Not feeling like exercising. There are pieces here that are depression. The other piece that's going on is the pain in your hand, and a lot of times pain and depression are linked. It tends to kind of work in both directions. People who have pain oftentimes develop depression. People who are depressed oftentimes develop pain. It's not completely understandable why that's so, but it does tend to group together. So the fact that you're also having this pain in your hand and you're having depression symptoms, I think this is all sort of clustered together and it's not that we're going to change all of these situations. I think we need to kind of think about increasing your resources to deal with this stuff, paying maybe more attention to what we can do to combat some of those depression symptoms. 0:41:05
CLIENT: I'm on the maximum amount of everything I can be on and I'm on the Klonopin so I don't have the anxiety attacks. I can't up the Wellbutrin. I just can't.
THERAPIST: It's not just meds though, right? That's not the only thing you do to make yourself be healthy.
CLIENT: I guess there is the exercise that I'm not doing. I haven't had a chance to get a pair of pants that actually work for that.
THERAPIST: How much fresh air and sunlight are you getting?
CLIENT: It depends. Not much today. Yesterday I took the bus to work, so between walking to the 68 bus and then into the Square and walked from there to get underneath to get to the 77 bus, so a little bit of walking there. Sydney picked me up so I didn't have any more fresh air after that, but there was a little bit.
THERAPIST: And how has your sleep been?
CLIENT: Last night Sydney had actually been going to bed really early so I've been going to bed at eleven or twelve. Last night we were up until two, but all the previous nights we've been going to bed pretty early. 0:42:33
THERAPIST: These are some things that have helped in the past to sort of bolster you a little bit. Being conscientious about them again because these are things you do have some control over. I'm not going to increase your meds. Your meds are in a place where they were doing their job for you, it's these other things that have changed. I think working hard to make it possible to let some of these other things work for you. There was a while when you were doing vitamin E or vitamin D ...
CLIENT: Vitamin D and vitamin B and I'm still doing that.
THERAPIST: Still doing that? Okay. I knew it was something. (chuckles)
CLIENT: Also when I walk too much my lower back hurts because I haven't been doing the back exercises. I can't even put the mat in the TV room right now because the whole entire house is a mess. My room has all of my stuff plus some of Sydney's stuff and the TV room has [inaudible] (ph) stuff because they still haven't finished switching rooms and their stuff is everywhere, so I can't do back exercises. I can't even really go walking.
THERAPIST: It doesn't have to be all at once. I'm going to take some of the pressure off of you. You don't need to go on some super long walk.
CLIENT: But even walking for ten minutes, like if I have my purse with me will make my back start hurting.
THERAPIST: What if you don't have your purse with you?
CLIENT: Then I have no way of ... I guess I could just have my key and my cell phone.
THERAPIST: If you can walk with just your key and your cell phone for ten minutes at a time, just do that. It doesn't have to be going to a place. It doesn't have to be going far away. You can do a ten-minute loop back to your house. That way you can go without carrying something heavy, which is better for your body. You're perfectly safe.
CLIENT: Actually, no, wait—my back does hurt even if I'm carrying something, as evidenced by when last weekend we were at my parents' for Shabbat when I was walking back from the [inaudible] (ph). It's about a 15-minute walk and on the way back my lower back was hurting; and I was carrying nothing. 0:44:40
THERAPIST: So try ten minutes and see what it does for you. Some of the things that have helped in the past are getting work, sunlight, which is easy in the summer when there's lots of sunlight available. You don't have to be outside walking, but if you can go outside and get yourself fresh air and some sunlight, maybe take a five-minute walk. Do a quick loop and then just allow yourself to sit outside, soak up some of that sunshine, and then go back about your day. But I think breaking up the routine a little bit and giving yourself some of other stuff, those are things that are in your control that have helped you in the past. It's likely that they could help you again. 0:45:35
CLIENT: I still also feel like I've gained all of this weight and maybe the reason my back is hurting is because I'm too fat to support my own weight.
THERAPIST: These things may all be related.
CLIENT: It's probably just not having done the back exercises [...] (inaudible at 0:45:49)
THERAPIST: Gaining weight does put extra pressure on your joints and your body, but it doesn't mean that you can't use your body. One of the analogies the doctor gave you for your hand is that bodies like to be used and moved. You don't want to put too much pressure too soon. I'm not telling you to go out and walk for miles and miles, but little bits are in your control and will probably make you feel better not worse. It sounds like you've been doing pretty good this week trying to get back to that and having a routine has really helped you in the past. Those are all things that you have control over where you don't have control over some of these other things.
CLIENT: I think it doesn't help that Sydney is whole overeating thinks that he can't go on walks with me or anything and [I can't do it by myself.] (crosstalk at 0:46:47)
THERAPIST: Yes you can. You don't have to be dependent on him for that, especially where the goal is not to go for a long time. You can leave him for five or ten minutes a couple of times a day. Maybe if you do a five-minute walk, a five-minute walk, a five-minute walk, that gives you more movement and it gives you more outside time maybe than what you've been getting. He can do it with you—great. If not, that's okay too. You're allowed to do this yourself. We do have to stop for today.
END TRANSCRIPT
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

