*TEXT-PV010037  Friday 15 November 1968               3807 3747   36   24
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (Silence) It's funny, every once in a while today I thought about whether or not I'd be able to see the faces I saw yesterday and how I'd feel about them if I did.  And I can see both the one the I had spoken of the day before yesterday and then the 2 yesterday.  But the 2 yesterday just seem sort of faded or very indistinct.  (Pause) And I was, in a way, looking forward to seeing if I could find the faces and almost as if it's a game with myself.  But when I see the one that was sad it still makes me feel annoyed or angry or I don't know.  I don't, I don't like looking at it as I did that first day I saw it.
ANALYST: That's the little boy with 1 eye open, huh? /
PATIENT: Yes.
ANALYST: And 1 closed.  What does it bring to mind when you —? /
PATIENT: Just a feeling of dejection and sadness.  Just, uhm, crying.  In a way sort of the face I often feel I have or, when my mother would say to me, "Don't look so gloomy all the time," sort of that kind of a face.  (Pause) And something else that I was wondering about today was, uhm, the feeling I've had toward teaching this week, sort of last week too.  But I, I just don't want, really, to handle the problems that arise during the day.  And I was wondering about the fact that I've had to make decisions that I didn't like making or I still am making decisions that I haven't liked making just regarding the reports and my course and, and then the things I need for this dance.  And they're all things that even in themselves I need for this dance.  And they're all things that even in themselves would put me in some kind of a state.  And I can't tell whether this is why I'm too busy thinking about all these decisions so I'm, I can't extend my thinking any further or whether I'm thinking about, I want to think about things that come to my mind from being here.  Perhaps it's a combination, I don't know.  But I just have this feeling that I don't want to get into the room and really get in with the boys.  I'm too busy being conscious about something within myself, what it is I don't know.  But, I don't know, I just feel very inwardly directed and, and ah, it just makes it very difficult to have to be dealing with 20 other people during the day.
And I've also felt that I don't want to have much to do with any of the faculty members or anybody else.  I just don't, sometimes if I'm feeling relaxed I enjoy talking with them.  And I just don't really want to even get involved in conversations with other, other people.  I, it's the whole thing of my wanting to withdraw, I guess.  And I, if, if the room is sort of noisy or, uhm, somehow I feel that I don't have any kind of control over what's happening — and I especially feel this way when I'm feeling in this kind of mood — then I f—, I don't know, I get sort of, not really a headache but just kind of vague pressure in my head.  And, and I really seem to just lose all my judgment on what is good to do and, I don't know, just all the things you have to judge when you're dealing with children just during one day.  I, I seem to, I'll do things that I know aren't the things I should be doing or are going to make the day harder for the children and therefore harder for me.  And for some reason, I'll just keep doing them.  I suppose in a way it's, it's, I just get much more inflexible. (Pause)
But it disturbs me very much because when the year began I felt very much that I liked teaching this particular class and that things were going well.  And I felt as if I had a real interest in the individual boys.  And I just feel as if now I'm losing it.  (Silence) And I think, too, this, now that I'm ma—, making myself think about the fact that I'm so bad at making decisions, it's really begun to bother me.  Before I'd just, if I couldn't make a decision, I just wouldn't make it and I'd, I suppose, in a way withdraw from the situations that demanded those decisions.  But now I'm making myself think about this some more.  And it, and it just becomes very disturbing to me right when I'm trying to make the decision and, and just the fact that I know I'm not going to make it and that I just, I can't decide what I like and what I don't like and, and stay by that no matter what other people might feel.  And just, ah, well, it's happening all the time while I'm trying to decide what things I want for the, my sister's dance but it also happened last night in the course I'm taking.
We were working with clay.  And I've never, I don't recall ever working with clay myself, although I've given it to children to work with sometimes but I mean, really working with it, I've never, I have no memory of it.  So I just didn't even know where to begin and what you did.  But the uhm, professor was pretty good about indicating how you can begin so that even if you haven't ever worked with it before, you'd know what to start doing.  And I began to feel a certain amount of confidence about it.  But then he would often see the way some of the things were going and he was trying to stress that clay is a certain medium that, because of it's qualities, should be used in certain ways and that you should, to make certain forms, you shouldn't be doing it in clay, you should use another medium.  And whenever he'd make comments like that I took it to be directly related to what I was doing.  So I would just stop what I was doing and start over again.  I had no judg—, I had no feeling of being able to judge whether it applied to me or not or whether it applied to me but to only a certain degree.  And at one point I made something that I rather liked.  And it happened that it was, it was an animal and somebody else in the class had made a similar animal but in a very different position.  And it just had a very different appearance.  And he spent some amount of time with that girl talking about hers and indicating approval of it and, and sort of helping her to see how she could go further.  And he never said anything regarding mine.
And he never said anything generally to the class that I took relating to mine.  And so, even though I liked it, I took his lack of comment to mean disapproval.  And I couldn't make myself keep it.  And I think I was tricking myself then because I was telling myself that I always have this compulsion, whenever I make anything to keep it because I'm so unsure I'll ever be able to make anything again.  And therefore I kept telling myself what I'm going to do tonight is not save anything I make.  But I think really, with that particular figure, I didn't keep it because I didn't trust my own feeling that I liked it.  And even the fact that another girl sitting next to me, whose work has been, to my taste, quite interesting and therefore I feel a certain confidence in her opinion, even the fact that she indicated a certain pleasure in what I'd done made no difference.  I still, because the professor didn't seem to approve, I couldn't keep it. (Pause)
And it really bothered me because I could see that (clears throat) I know what I don't like and even if I hesitate when I don't like something, I can usually carry through on knowing when I really don't like something but I don't have any confidence in what I do like.  Or, I don't know, I often just don't even really know what I do like.  (Pause) And this bothered me with the dress that I got for the dance too.  I don't know whether I have mentioned this at all, but I had the feeling that I wanted something that had a certain amount of individuality to it without being way out but just so I wouldn't be getting the usual kind of thing I always get which is kind of characterless.  And most of the things that I thought that I (laughs) really liked that seemed to have some character were way too expensive.  But there was one kind of outfit I just wouldn't dare wear.  And now I think that probably they're the type of outfit that a lot of people will be getting, more or less, that kind.  And it just made me very angry that just because I hadn't seen a lot of examples of it or seen it displayed in a lot of places I couldn't, because I liked it, do it.  And I have to wait.  I'm always, this is the way I've always been about styles and things, I'll, by the time it's about to go out, I'll start liking it because it takes me all that time.
And even decisions that I have to make about kinds of teaching I do — because very often my assistant will ask me things which I take as a criticism on the way I'm doing something and I get very insecure about whether or not I'm right in doing things the way I'm doing.  And her questions often bother me very much.  Sometimes, perhaps, they are, are in, in criticism or sometimes she probably just wants to know.  And then I'll think about it afterwards or maybe read something else that reconfirms how I felt about something and it just makes me feel very frustrated and angry with myself that I can't, the minute I have any questions from the other side I immediately become very weak on my position.
(2-minute silence) And after a week like I've had this week at school, I keep thinking about what am I doing wrong that has made the week as it is.  And I just assume that it is something I'm doing.  And then sometimes I wonder if it's just my view of it, that it seems so bad or whether it really is.  (Clears throat; pause) I was thinking that part of what seems to have gone wrong is that I'm inclined to talk too much to the children and almost lecture them when things aren't going quite right.  But I don't know whether that's it or just occurred to me now that there is a certain impatience that I have when I'm feeling this way.  And I don't allow the time that they need to do things.  And so that I'm feeling sort of frantic and I create an atmosphere of frenzy.  And I suppose I'm feeling sort of frantic because I'm feeling pressured by all these other decisions that are in the back of my mind if I'm not really thinking about them all. (Silence)
And I was just thinking, too, about my relationship with my supervisor.  And for a while it was better than I've ever had with a supervisor before.  But now, I don't know, it just, as everything else, seems to have deteriorated (laughs) this last week or 2, this seems to too.  And, again, I don't know whether I'm imagining this or whether there is something to it but it seems that the other teacher of my year is often in much greater communication with her than I am and that things are told to her which aren't told to me.  And it might just be that it happens or it's a mistake or she's supposed to tell me and she doesn't.  But my immediate reaction is, well, why am I not being told, too?  What does my supervisor think about me that she feels she can't tell me?  (Pause)
And I had a funny reaction this afternoon in that I wanted to speak to one of the secretaries and it was kind of a, it had nothing to do with school and, and uhm, it's just sort of an inconsequential thing that I wanted to talk to her about.  So I didn't really want to do it with a lot of other people around.  And, uhm, there was some other teacher in the doorway of her office.  So I spoke to him kind of joking.  And then I saw my supervisor was in there.  And I just, I don't know, I almost had the feeling that I'd done something wrong and she's going to be disapproving.  I don't know, it was very strange but I didn't feel like joking anymore and I just wanted to leave and I didn't want to talk to her.  And I just had a very funny feeling didn't want to talk to her.  And I just had a very funny reaction when I saw her in there. (Pause)
And I was just thinking, I suppose in a way the reaction I've had to my inability to make decisions is sort of true of my reaction to myself just generally, that I'm feeling very strongly right now that I don't like myself.  (Pause) And it does seem that in everything I'm doing, I don't feel good about what I'm doing or confident in what I'm doing or like what I'm doing.  (Silence) And I suppose then my reaction is sort of getting angry with myself and feeling well, I've got to make myself be different so I don't feel this way.  (Pause) Which I suppose is in a way why I feel angry about that face, too, because it's almost the feeling of, well, why can't it make itself look different. (Pause)
And it's almost as if the other, the face I saw yesterday or the faces I saw yesterday were just kind of nothing, not, they didn't really have any kind of expression.  And today they just seem sort of indistinct.  And (pause) somehow I can't believe this is really (laughs) true.  (Silence) But I was feeling sort of that today (clears throat) I was making, that I was kind of nothing and that I was making no impact anywhere or impression.  I might as well not have been in any of the places I was for all the effect I had.  And it's the same feeling I have about the dress that I did get, that it's sort of a nothing dress and that therefore, that I chose it, it makes me think that's a statement of the fact that I'm nothing.  (Pause)
And I have had this reaction too when people have commented on their impression of me.  I think I mentioned it earlier but one time when I was at the hairdresser's the girl there said something to the effect she was surprised to hear I was a teacher because she thought I was a nurse and that I was so sweet and gentle.  And this really bothered me.  And then I saw a dress that I was trying on at one point MSCZ really liked.  And it made me just feel like a nun or a pilgrim or something.  It was — and I kept thinking, well, the reason I don't like it is that it's so full and I feel kind of big and clumsy.  But for the style the dress fit me very well and looked nice on me, it was just a matter of whether or not I liked the style.  And some lady commented on how nice it looked.  And I said, "Well, it just makes me feel like a nun."  And she said, "Well, you do look very sweet and pure."  And, I don't know, that immediately made me decide I didn't want it.
And there was another time, too that I got sort of angry at this impression of me, when last year we were talking about the different signs and, and somebody heard mine and was surprised that I was aries or whatever it is.  And, and, ah, I guess, I don't know too much about what the characteristics are supposed to be but she was just taking it from the fact that, given these characteristics, she didn't think I had them.  And it just made me seem again like sort of a nondescript person without any character and any strength.  And, and, I don't know, it just, there are lots of times when it's been building up and, and I think very often my side that seems to people to be sort of a sweet kind of thing is more, I don't have any confidence in getting along with people in any other way so I try to be very agreeable.  And it seems to them I'm being very sweet and gentle.  And I don't feel that way at all inside.  And, and I know that I am this way out of a fear or lack of confidence or something, that, that it can't be completely really me and, and that certainly, anyway, whether it is me or not it's me for the wrong reasons.  So I get angry if I'm sort of complimented for having that characteristic.  And I get angry anyway when people are surprised that I might have another characteristic because they'd always thought that was all I was.  Anybody criticize me for any reason, or to have anything to criticize me  (Pause)
And I think I'm always thinking of not wanting to have about.  And the only way you can do that is to be sort of nondescript.  Then people can't approve or disapprove.  They can't really react if, if you don't do anything for them to react to.  (Pause) It's funny the reaction I'm having to thinking these things and having these thoughts come partly because of those faces that I saw.  Because for some reason I don't seem to want to have seen those faces really mean anything.  And I can't tell if it's because I'm afraid that maybe I am making them mean something and I'm drawing a relationship that really wasn't there and therefore I'll feel ridiculous or whether it's because I'm, I've made too much of a statement about myself by seeing them and so I don't want them to seem to mean anything. (Pause)
And it is true on things, quizzes or little games on what do you see in this or, can you think of a way to do a little puzzle or something, I'd always freeze up.  And it's only the last year or 2 because of the things I am doing with children that I realized (laughs) I can, for instance, if you have just a blot or you're starting with any kind of a shape, see other things in it and, and sort of imagine other things.  Because I used to think I just didn't have that at all.  (Pause) But I suppose that partly the feeling of freezing up came from the feeling that maybe I'd be the only one to see whatever I saw and I just didn't have the strength to feel, well, it was alright if I were the only one seeing it. (Pause)
And I just wonder where I got this terrific need for approval because when I think about how my mother probably brought us up, I'm sure she did as much as she could to make us feel the ability to be independent and think for ourselves and so forth.  And I'm just wondering if maybe in a way both my parents have a need for it too and if you function the way you want other people to function and therefore she was undoing what she consciously was doing by really teaching us to always seek approval whenever we did anything.  Although she probably consciously thought she was trying to teach us not to.  And I have sometimes wondered if I do this when I'm teaching and it, and this leaves me somewhat confused because if I am, then I try not to and yet the only way I seem to be able to function is by giving out my approval or my disapproval.  And so when I try to teach not using that I end up not knowing what I'm doing.  And I don't mean as an adult you never use it but just somehow you take away from the child, or somehow it — I don't know, it seems like then I'm blaming somebody else and getting out of any responsibility for it but somehow I did lose the feeling that I could decide for myself and feel I was right no matter what anybody else thought.
And (pause) I know the way, sometimes the way I'm thinking when I'm teaching, the kind of child who doesn't care, although you could probably reach him on the things that really are important that he see where adult approval counts and where it doesn't, uhm, they are a much harder child to handle.  They aren't disciplined then in the way that I was brought up to think of discipline and so therefore it makes me think that at home my parents really did use this approval or disapproval in a destructive way.  Although I'm sure they didn't intend to.  I don't know, with my father I don't know if he'd even have thought it out.  But I'm sure that with my mother, she would have, she did think it out and, and would probably feel very upset if she could see the influences that actually did work when she was bringing us up.
And I think then what happens, too, is that in trying to make us get a certain kind of independence, she would withhold letting us know when she approved or didn't approve and yet she taught us to seek that approval so it would leave us feeling very confused.  And, I don't know, it was almost the worst situation, that if it had been either a clear cut teaching us to need her approval and then showing when we had it and when we didn't, that would have been better.  Or, or if she'd been able to carry through with what she really wanted to carry through with.
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
