Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So we put Buddy to sleep yesterday.
THERAPIST: Aww, gee. I'm sorry. (inaudible at 00:00:11)
CLIENT: Yeah. They called me Saturday morning. Because I'm at the beginning of the tournament. I had a tournament this weekend.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And they're like, "He's not progressing." I'm like all right. You know they're throwing around all these far off surgery — nah I'll come by after the tournament and say good bye or whatever. And then they call me in the middle of tournament and they're like, "We just put a catheter in him and he didn't need any sedation. And he didn't flinch or struggle or flail or anything like that. You could take him home and give him catheters three to four times a day until the medication hopefully starts to work." Which my initial gut reaction was, "Aww shit." You know I really didn't want to do that. [00:01:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I felt like at least it's worth a try. So after the tournament I went to the hospital and they showed me how to put a catheter in. And went home. Pretty much fell asleep until like eleven at night. Put a catheter in him. It wasn't easy but I did it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Where do you put it?
CLIENT: In his penis hole. So I know my way around a dog's penis like you wouldn't believe.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) I'm impressed.
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) Because you've got to get it to pop out which is the hard part. And stay out.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:02:02]
CLIENT: So I did it Sunday morning and Sunday afternoon. And then Sunday night I couldn't get the catheter to go in. And they were like, "If you have a problem just bring him in and we'll put a catheter in." So I called them up. I said, "I'm bringing him in." I brought him in. And I kind of was expecting them to say something's bad. This is it. But they were like, "We got a catheter in him. We used a smaller gauge catheter." And they sent me home with two smaller gauge catheters. So I get up in the morning and try to put the smaller gauge catheter in and it doesn't go in. So I basically took him in and made the decision that this is it. It's just too much for me. For him. It's not fair. I got to take him home for a day. [00:02:59]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: They wanted to put in a somewhat permanent catheter that you leave in but he'd have to have a cone. I had a full day yesterday. I had a meeting yesterday. Today was supposed to be full but people were canceling on me. I can't put him in his cage that he can barely stand up in with a cone on his head and a catheter. I can't do that to the dog.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He's lost a lot of weight. He hadn't eaten since I brought him home. Just cookies. And so I called Jess and said, "Come on out and meet me." And that was it. He tried to do his one trick. Hugs. Where he jumps and puts — he didn't even have the strength to do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So it's one of these things you always second-guess yourself on. But—
THERAPIST: (inaudible) second guess yourself. (inaudible) had to happen. [00:03:57]
CLIENT: (pause from [00:03:57] to 00:04:16) (sighs) So I had to go from that to a potential new client meeting in an area — or at least a type of matter that I've never dealt with before. I've dealt with in the preliminary stages. It got settled and they didn't follow up with me or whatever. I've never gone to court with it which I would've had to do in this case. And you know. How was your day? Oh I'm doing great. How are you doing? And she's talking to another lawyer today. She's already talked to several lawyers. She liked me the best but she's talking to another lawyer today. And she's going to let me know whether she's going to hire me or not.
THERAPIST: Did she like you best after your dog died? [00:04:56]
CLIENT: Oh I'm a lawyer. I can fake it pretty good. And friends of mine who used to baby-sit Buddy and really liked him had me over for dinner last night. (pause at [00:05:11] to 00:05:25)
I just don't know what to do with all this shit. I just bought this cage for $300. I spent $2500 on this dog. And Jess kicked in $1300. That's another $200 and change that's owed to them. There's still food in his bowl. Water in his bowl. There's dog hair everywhere. Catheters all over the place. (pause at [00:06:02] to 00:06:10) I wish it wasn't raining today because we're supposed to have a game today. And that was one thing helped me, distracted me on Saturday, was the tournament. [00:06:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I had a really good time at the tournament.
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: And I hyper-extended my knee Thursday night.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it didn't give me any problems. It hurt. I was at soccer practice and I went to kick a ball with the outside of my foot and that hurt.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: And so I was worried. I had a little bit of stiffness on the old injury side of it but that went away. I didn't even think about it most of the day. And yesterday morning reaching across the bed to unplug my iPhone charger I had pain down my leg. So it's like I run and jump and do all this crazy cutting and nothing happens. I just reach across my bed and I'm in massive pain. [00:07:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So. So I was kind of hoping that it doesn't rain so much that they have to cancel tonight. I've got nothing to do. (pause at [00:07:26] to 00:07:41)
THERAPIST: I can imagine it feels pretty empty at home without him.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:07:44] to 00:08:07) (sniffs) My Mom's coming into town this weekend. She's going to drive me crazy. (sighs) I felt alone before. [00:08:22]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (sniffs) I don't know what to do. (pause at [00:08:31] to 00:08:47) I try and tell my friends, "I need to find a woman." And they just kind of laugh at me. Like, "Ha, ha, ha." I'm like, "Oh, I'm serious." I wouldn't know what to do with one if I got one.
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: (chuckles) Like dating or that kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: That's not fresh in your mind somehow? [00:09:23]
CLIENT: Somehow. Yeah. See I should've been cheating on Jess. I'd be much better prepared for this. (sniffs) Jess gave me a hug. You know they had this nice room with a couch. I've wondered every time I've went there because you see this room that has couches and it's all nice. And I'm like, "That's the put the dog to sleep room."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But she gave me a hug. I just kind of (inaudible at 00:09:51). You know she was kind of standing up. (inaudible) She's in therapy now.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I can't remember the name of her therapist but —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:10:00)
CLIENT: And she needs it.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Well I mean with losing the house and all this stuff. She needs a voice of sanity. [00:10:16]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: She's just freaking out over everything. I had another $73 taken by the IRS. I'm like, "Can you guys fuckin' get the paperwork in?" You know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I'm lucky it was only $73.
THERAPIST: You haven't got the hardship paperwork in yet? Is that what you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. They haven't done it. Just haven't done it. Her and the lawyer are just pussyfooting around. And you know I'm going to lose my fuckin'—my license is going to get suspended in June by the DOR. It's just — (pauses at [00:10:50] to 00:11:02). It's just always something just dragging me down.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:11:05] to 00:11:15) On Facebook I just put Buddy's name and the dates that he was alive. And 42 comments. Some people — one person did two comments. [00:11:25]
THERAPIST: He was how old?
CLIENT: Nine and a half.
THERAPIST: Nine and a half.
CLIENT: He was kind of young.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But he was kind of the product of bad breeding so I knew — probably should've known something like this was going to happen to him early. And (pause at [00:11:49] to 00:11:57). I friended that woman on my Handball team, Barbara. And she didn't comment on it. And I know she was on Facebook because she went to the Preakness and she posted all the Preakness photos. I don't know how to handle that situation. [00:12:18]
THERAPIST: What's the question?
CLIENT: What do I do?
THERAPIST: Uh—
CLIENT: I don't want to come across as a creep. You know? She's like 12 years younger than me. I don't want to upset any balance on the team. (pause at [00:12:49] to 00:12:55) I had no idea. I don't really know that much about her. Just she seems a little quiet.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like shy? Or reserved? [00:13:21]
CLIENT: Yeah. Reserved. (pause at [00:13:23] to 00:13:33)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) Buddy hasn't been in the ground a week and look what you're thinking (inaudible at 00:13:37).
CLIENT: Try to replace him. He needs to be cremated. And for free they give you a paw print. I'm like, "Really? Free? $2500? Free? You're giving me a little piece of cement with his paw print in it. Thank you." They actually were very good.
THERAPIST: And a free pawprint. (inaudible at 00:13:59)
CLIENT: (inaudible) Veterinary Emergency Specialty Center. And I think the real difference between that place and the other is that the other kind of attracts young stars out of the university and has the MSPCA attached to it. And the specialists more type of specialists. [00:14:37]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And then they also have the rescue part of it. But this is a little smaller. But the doctors there are excellent. And they were going above and beyond. Like this medication they didn't have it in the place so they ran to the pharmacy to get it for him. Of course what do I get in the mail yesterday? They had to have it compounded because none of the pharmacies had the right milligrams or whatever. That came in the mail yesterday. So I spent 50 bucks on that. I've just been throwing money away. It's just depressing. [00:15:24]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I've got a closing at the end of this week. (inaudible at 00:15:30)
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: Supposed to really help put me in a good position. It's not. It's just catch up. And actually I was (inaudible at 00:15:48) because I ponied up another $400. Spent a lot of money I don't have.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I have someone's insurance money in my (inaudible at 00:16:05) account. I basically pulled that out. So I'm going to have to replace it with this —
THERAPIST: The money from the closing?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm also having an estate planned. So I've got $500 coming in. That's about half of it. I can't get myself to go to the grocery store and buy food. I ate McDonald's yesterday again. (pauses at [00:16:29] to 00:16:39) This potential new client was a half-hour late because she got lost trying to find my office, which is a big concern of mine. I don't know what to do about it. [00:16:51]
I gave her very simple directions to get there. You walk in the door. There's an elevator on your left. You go up the elevator. Take a left out of the elevator. Take your first right and my office is down the hallway on your left. It's like two turns. (pauses at [00:17:10] to 00:17:26)
The loan officer I took to lunch on Friday asked me about other states. About estate planning. She asked about other states for another loan officer who found someone else to use. And the estate planning was she wanted me to do on her E&G; group as an estate planner. So —. [00:17:49]
THERAPIST: Have you heard of those kind of groups? Are you familiar with them?
CLIENT: I don't know. But she's pretty into it. She's been (inaudible at 00:17:57). But I don't imagine I'm going to be getting much business from her. And the closing we have, their company doesn't allow you to do a refinance at the end of the month so you can focus on the purchase of the (inaudible at 00:18:12).
And she wanted me — sent me a text yesterday if I would close on the weekend. And with my Mom coming into town — it's Memorial Day weekend. Sure. Yeah. I've got a soccer game in the morning. Pick my Mom up from the airport. Go shower or at least put some water on my hair. Shave. Then (inaudible at 00:18:41) clothes and get the documents signed. I have a feeling they're not going to be able to push it to get it done. [00:18:47]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: We just oughta close the first week of June. Woman had called me about a cash sale. It is supposed to be signed tomorrow. It's not happening. She never called me back once I gave her my fees. And another guy called me yesterday. I was literally driving home from the hospital. And I — it comes up as a New York number. And I'm like, "I'm not answering it." And then I listened to it and it's a new client who called the office. And they called.
THERAPIST: Oh. That's good.
CLIENT: I called him back almost right away as I'm driving home from the hospital. So he wanted to go with someone local. He's buying in here. And I go, "Oh I don't live too far from there." He's like, "Oh really? Great!" [00:19:57]
Now that I don't have to worry about Buddy in the morning I have time to get up and ride my bike. And not rushing. Finally got rid of him. (pauses at [00:20:16] to 00:21:03)
One of my captains from the Handball team is — he wants to look for a house. So I referred her to Claire. And the guy at the Bank. So we'll see what happens. [00:21:18]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Didn't want to refer her to Claire but I really don't know anybody else in the area. I just can't believe she has no business to send me. (pause at [00:21:41] to 00:21:50) I'm saying this to Jess and Jess's like, "Oh I just talked to her the other day. I should've asked her."
It's like, "you totally fuckin' suck. You completely fuckin' suck. It's money for your kids and you've blown — this is supposed to be your friend." (pause at [00:22:06] to 00:22:34) Now I'm starting to — I don't know if obsess is the same, the right word to use. About this woman, Barbara, but I can't stop thinking about her. I always end it with that this just isn't realistic. It's just not. [00:22:57]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) something good to focus on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's just sort of a bright spot. And there aren't many bright spots so you kind of can't help it. And it doesn't have much to do with the reality. I mean I'm not saying it could never work realistically but it doesn't seem like your attention to her is related to — I mean it's a fantasy. Which isn't to say it couldn't be a reality. It's just it has a life independent of what's going on. (pause at [00:23:48] to 00:24:02) You're really fuckin' lonely and you haven't had somebody who like sort of cared and desired you that way in a long time. [00:24:26]
CLIENT: Somebody I could just throw the Handball around with.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. That's pretty raunchy.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:24:53] to 00:25:05) Is it supposed to rain all day? Do you know?
THERAPIST: Last I checked, no. It was like forty- percent chance through the day.
CLIENT: I checked — I tried with my laptop (inaudible at 00:25:22). My desktop is very slow. And I tried pulling up the radar and couldn't but it said it was ninety percent chance of rain. As it's reporting that it's currently raining. [00:25:32]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Well you know you don't want to be too sure of anything. (laughs)
CLIENT: I think it's just supposed to be showers. I just really want to play.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Be nice to get out.
CLIENT: Go out and have some beer.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: My (inaudible at 00:25:55) captains gave out awards to everybody on the team which was a bottle of booze. And they gave me — well actually I won the Wagon Award for hauling ass.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: Which I really — I didn't want to ask exactly what they meant by hauling ass. It's not like I have a big ass.
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 00:26:19) that means.
CLIENT: I don't know but they gave me the award with a sticker but you can trade. So once you've got what you want you put your sticker on the bottle. I originally won—you just reach in and pull the bottle out. And I pulled out a sparkling Shiraz. [00:26:39]
THERAPIST: I see. Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Which would've been interesting. But I probably would've given it away as a gift.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So what did you trade to?
CLIENT: I got a [inaudible] which is a brewery. They used to have a tournament right there. I don't know if they still do. But they make a really good Belgian. And so I drank that last night when I went over to a friend's. Had a glass of wine. Drove home. I was pulling in through — coming in off the highway through Plymouth and got to where the precinct and the independent was and I said, "You know I could use a Guinness." [00:27:31]
Like right around eleven o'clock. Eleven — thirty. So I pulled into the parking lot and went in and took a leak. And in the back room they had a band playing. And they just — they sounded like they were rockin' out. So I went in and watched the band. And drank a Guinness and went home. They had two electric guitar players, an acoustic guitar player who was standing on the floor, a sitting — wee wee type — a Sitar, a fiddle player, a bass player, a singer and a drummer.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: So two of them were on the floor. And they were just all over. And they just — they were really rockin' out. It's kind of even hard to describe what kind of music they were. Just rock n' roll I guess. They were kind of older dudes. So they've probably been doing it for awhile. In places — there was like maybe 20 people there. Fifteen. Not many. [00:28:35]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's Monday night. They were probably all their friends. Half their friends. So I drank a Guinness and went home. Fact I've got to call her because they were supposed to renew a prescription for me at CVS and they say, "Oh we'll call the doctor." And I haven't gotten my phone call that my prescriptions are ready.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I ran out. So I need them tonight. The [oxycarbozine] or whatever. The [trilophon] or the [traliptol] or whatever it is. Fuckin' medications. I'm sick of medicine. [00:29:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: One of the medications they gave for Buddy was for pain. And I used to take it for pain when I had IBS. One of the things I used to have in that — I used to get really bloated. And would have really bad gas pains. It was all diet. And I would take the medication when I had those problems. And then I just stopped. It's not supposed to be addictive. It's non-narcotic. But I found that I would sometimes take it just to take it. So I didn't — my primary care kind of gave me a little bit of a hard time about refilling it the last time. But he gives me a hard time about refilling anything that he originally doesn't prescribe. It's prescribed by my GI who I haven't seen in two years. [00:30:33]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so I just — when I ran out, I ran out. But now I have more. But I don't really get in the kind of pain that I need it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well that's good.
CLIENT: Unless I re-injure my knee somehow. See it looks like it's clearing up.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: No fuckin' clue about the weather.
THERAPIST: Don't you have an app?
CLIENT: I do. But it's not — it's the one that comes with it. And it's not that good. I need to get a better — it doesn't have radar on it. Or anything like that. And I need to find a good weather app. Probably weather.com has one that's one that's sufficient.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:31:28)
CLIENT: Does it have radar?
THERAPIST: I don't know. (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah. Because that's what you have to do. You can't go by the forecast. [00:31:41]
THERAPIST: You can't?
CLIENT: Because the forecast is stale.
THERAPIST: Oh! I didn't know that.
CLIENT: Who knows the last time they came up with that forecast? And to actually watch and see where the rain is moving is a little bit helpful. The thing is, is the way it works is rain always kind of gets to 128 and breaks up. So they say it's going to rain and it ends up breaking up. And you get showers. Or it's not — at least when it comes to Handball. But now I've got a meeting — I was supposed to have two meetings today. I've only got one. One was cancelled. [00:32:26]
And (pause at [00:32:30] to 00:32:38) so I mean I left my computer and everything up there. I have a little bit of work to do. Some files to open — I have a few closings in June.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: So that will be it. An okay month.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:32:53] to 00:33:03) I never got a response from the guy at the bank. Thanking me for the referral or anything like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The only reason Claire responded to me was because I told her that Buddy died. So she was like, "Sorry about Buddy." And then later she e-mailed me that she still thinks about her dog. And I replied, "Yeah they don't live long enough." [00:33:30]
THERAPIST: Mm. How are the kids? (inaudible)
CLIENT: Sad. That's the report I got. Oh and this is — I got into a little bit of a spat with Jess on -. So I called her up after the vet had called me in the morning on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And Ian wanted to see Buddy. She called our vet who has kids. And he said tell the kids. So Ian wanted to see Buddy before. So she was arranging with her parents to take the kids and at least let Buddy see them. And I don't think — not to be in the room while we were doing it.
So when I called her up and told her about this catheter thing, as usual, the first response is the worst possible response possible. "You're kidding me? I already told the kids." So my response was, "Oh you told the kids. Well let's fuckin' kill the dog then." "That's not what I meant." And then Lucille was just screaming into the phone and was driving my ear crazy. And I just can't take that. The screaming anymore. [00:34:50]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I just hung up on them. So. I think she was questioning whether I had the ability to put a catheter in Buddy. (pause at [00:35:03] to 00:35:11) That's how good a dog he is though. That he'll just sit there and let you do that to him. (pause at [00:35:14] to 00:35:31)
THERAPIST: So do they know what he had?
CLIENT: Yeah he had a cancer. All the signs pointed to a certain type of cancer that does these sort of things. They won't commit to it. [00:35:44]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But it probably has. Carcinoma or something like that. I don't know. But he basically had a tumor. Back around his prostate and his bladder. His lymph nodes were all inflamed. That was really kind of the signal for me when the doctor was like the lymph nodes are inflamed. What are we doing this for? What are our chances? And she's like, "It's a long shot." And I'm like, "All right. I'm not doing it."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It just — just kind of for my own sanity I felt just let's get it over with.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The dog's not going to have any sort of —
THERAPIST: Quality of life.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean for the small chance. I mean he's been suffering so much.
THERAPIST: Yeah quality of life has not been good recently.
CLIENT: Well he had a good day Sunday. I took him on a long walk. He fell asleep on the couch. No that was Saturday. [00:37:05]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:37:10) Went over and Ian got to see him. (inaudible) You could tell he was tired. Fatigued. He was just very tired.
THERAPIST: Sounds like the day he would've wanted.
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: Sounds like the day he would've wanted.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:37:35] to 00:37:45) So except for maybe an outburst trying to put his catheter in, he had a day of not getting yelled at or kicked or punched or anything like that. I mean he gets so anxious when you take him in there. He's crying and crying and crying. [00:38:00]
And then all of a sudden Jess shows up and he goes crazy. And they inject with sedative. And he just dropped to the floor. And then they inject the pink stuff. Then literally two seconds go by and she puts her stethoscope on his heart and he's gone (snaps fingers) like that.
THERAPIST: Wow. (pause at [00:38:25] to 00:38:39) That would be pretty hard to watch.
CLIENT: The hard part is waiting for them to come and do it. And then just him lying there. She's like, "I'll give you five minutes." And it must've been like fifteen minutes before someone came in. [00:39:04]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I just didn't want to walk out of the room and leave him alone. I'm sure they'd take him in the back and leave him alone. Put him in a bag. Or who knows what they do?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I'll should be getting a little redwood box with a key. And a pawprint. I can order a urn if I want to but I don't think I have the money for a urn. If I don't pick him up they ultimately scatter the ashes at the cemetery.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: All dogs deserve a proper burial. He'd like his ashes scattered on the Handball field. (pause at [00:39:48] to 00:40:06) (sighs) My Dad's in rehab from back surgery. And my step-mom sent me a text that he's going to be there awhile. It sucks. [00:40:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He's all upset because he has to walk with a walker. It makes him feel old. He's 71. No, 73. He'll be 73. My Mom is 71. No, she's 69. He's 71. She's 69. She'll be 69. He'll be 71. (pause at [00:41:02] to 00:41:20) Grandma is like 88. She's in good health.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Relatively. For someone that age. I think I'm supposed to get five grand when she passes away. I'm like, "Come on Grandma. Hurry up." Just send me the money now. [00:41:39]
The IRS will take it. (pause at [00:41:44] to 00:41:56) But everything has changed now because of my new office. The office expenses are less.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: That effects — I don't know. I haven't even gotten a bill from my insurance. It's like $500 bucks. (sighs) It's just — I don't know. It's just fuckin' so much money going out the door. I'm so sick of it. [00:42:26]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) I'm sorry again about Buddy.
CLIENT: Thanks. [00:42:37] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
