Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (yawns)
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know, lots of stuff. I finally went and talked to my department chair yesterday about what I need to do to graduate, and he said I just need to give him my petition for transfer credit and my grade sheet, which I have with me.
THERAPIST: Ah-huh.
<br />
 CLIENT: And I've been putting off the transfer credit for months now, because...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He didn't even ask to see the transcript. He was like yeah, I take your word for it, that you got an A, and this wasn't used for another degree. Besides, if you're lying to me, the office of grant studies will figure it out. So ah, that was a little anticlimactic. And he signed my degree sheet and I'm all set to graduate. This will mean my advisor doesn't fail me for my one credit of second year project. [00:01:00]
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
CLIENT: Yeah, so.
THERAPIST: I say that knowing you're not thrilled about all of this.
CLIENT: Yeah. Dave told me that I am possibly the only person in the world who can consider completing your Masters degree to be an abject failure, instead of you know, a triumph.
THERAPIST: You're not the only person in the world, I can guarantee you that.
CLIENT: But definitely in a minority. I think most people would be happy to be graduating with a Masters degree on time, with a reasonable GPA.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, reasonable-ish. It's only a 3.6. (pause) That is that, and I've been bored, so I've been filling up my time. I'm heading to the print shop this afternoon. I don't know if I mentioned that my undergrad fraternity owns an 18th Century letter press, the same model that Ben Franklin would have used to print his newspapers. [00:02:03]
THERAPIST: Oh wow, cool.
CLIENT: So a friend of mine is getting married and she really wants the fraternity to print her wedding invitations.
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
CLIENT: All the undergrads are busy with midterms, so I'm going to go in and set some type, do as much as I can today and tomorrow, so it's exciting.
I picked up some freelance work. There's a website that does reviews and walkthroughs of computer games, and every so often when I get bored, I pick up some freelance work writing reviews and writing walkthroughs. The owner of the site offered to buy me an iPad if I was willing to commit to writing at least two walkthroughs a month, but I'm not sure I can actually commit to that. I told him thanks but no thanks, as much as I would like a free iPad. (both laugh) Yeah.
What else is going on? Dave really wants to take like a three week long vacation, so we might go to Key West for three weeks in August. It will be a working vacation for him, because he doesn't have three weeks of vacation time, so he'll be telecommuting for two of those weeks and one would be vacation. To be honest, I'm kind of terrified of what I'm going to do for three weeks, because I get bored really, really easily. [00:03:16]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So, Dave is suggesting horseback riding lessons and yoga lessons and surfing lessons and just yeah, filling my days with lessons.
THERAPIST: Lessons, yeah, things to work on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But different things.
CLIENT: So, I don't know. (pause) I forced myself to reply to the offer letter and say, I'd really like to accept this but I need more money. That was really scary and I ended up spending about three hours talking to a friend of mine who owns his own company and is on the other side of the table in these negotiations for advice, before I made the call. Well, I sent an e-mail and then we had a phone call later. I ended up getting a little bit more money, not as much as I had hoped but more than their first offer, so. [00:04:18]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) something. Are you pleased with that?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean on one hand, there's a part of me second guessing myself and saying all kinds of things which are mutually contradictory, like the second guesser is both saying well when they counter-offered lower than you expected, you should have counter counter-offered and asked for more. And then there's another second guesser voice saying you know, your manager is going to think less of you because you asked for more money at all, because there's all this research that says managers think poorly of women who ask for more money in salary negotiations, or who ask for raises. So there's all this second guessing going on and like I said, the second guessing voice was being mutually contradictory, because it's both saying I should have asked for more and I should never have asked for more in the first place.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But the friend of mine who was coaching me on how to do the negotiations said you know, for a first experience trying to negotiate, that didn't go so badly. He thinks I did well. [00:05:17]
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know what to do with my time now that I'm not under the burden of needing to work on my project. And I'm also kind of scared that I'm just going to implode all over again when I start work in July. That's what's been going on. (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess my impression is that you feel (pause) certainly relieved of the burdens around like school and the project um, and sort of a little freer, but not at times because you kind of anticipate and fear how you could make yourself feel if you don't make use of your time in a way that you're pleased with? [00:07:04]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Irrespective of what your kind of actual responsibilities may be.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause) Yeah, I mean I don't want to come up on my start date for work and realize that I spent three months playing computer games that bore me and made me miserable, you know? Like I've got three months off and (pause) I don't know, I'm trying not to think in terms of productivity, but I don't want it to be wasted. If that makes sense.
THERAPIST: You could think in terms of what would make you happy.
CLIENT: Well, sitting around on my couch playing computer games all day doesn't make me happy.
THERAPIST: I get it. [00:08:06]
CLIENT: And I don't want to end up spending three months doing that. I don't know, as soon as I schedule something that I think I am excited to do, then it starts to feel like a have to do and then it feels like a chore. (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean I guess it's kind of like the war hasn't stopped.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: There's been maybe some lessening of the hostilities or something.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: But it's sort of all still there.
CLIENT: Or it's like I haven't actually been to the gym since I started grad school, because between being depressed and being overworked, there is just no energy.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, sure.
CLIENT: But I definitely enjoyed working out when I was you know, working full-time and then working out at the gym after work, three or four days a week. And so you know, for the last couple of weeks, ever since I dropped the class that I was taking, I said you know, I've got all this time that I'm not spending in class, I could go to the gym during the hours that I would have been in class.
THERAPIST: (inaudible). [00:09:16]
CLIENT: And I haven't been able to do it because now it's become a, you have to go to the gym or you're a bad person and you're a fat lady as well and... (sighs)
THERAPIST: Somehow that's not motivating you?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: It's just making you unhappy.
CLIENT: Right. (pause)
THERAPIST: Would you enjoy going to the gym? I mean -
CLIENT: I did in the past, so I assume once I'm actually going I will again. And there are also legitimate health reasons. I mean my resting heart rate is higher than it was four years ago, blood pressure is higher than it was four years ago.
THERAPIST: Right, so it's a good idea that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Are you frustrated? [00:11:01]
CLIENT: With myself, yeah. Like there are all of these things that I should do and I'd really like to either do them or take them off the list of shoulds, because having this huge list of shoulds that are not making progress on completing feels really horrible.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know, maybe I'm not giving myself enough credit. I did accomplish several of my shoulds this weekend. I got - got rid of my old oscilloscope, which has just been taking up space and is heavy as sin and that I haven't actually used in seven years. So I found someone who restores old electronics who wanted it. And I assembled a couple of bookcases, build it yourself bookcases from Target that have just been sitting in their boxes in my living room for weeks and cleared off my desk, cleared out one of the six boxes of old paperwork and crap sitting in my study. Like I mean, those are all things that have been sitting on the you really should this list for anywhere from weeks to years in the case of the paperwork. [00:12:35]
THERAPIST: Your oscilloscope. Ah-huh.
CLIENT: So... (pause) But it feels like almost one step forward, two steps back.
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: Well it's just (pause) even though I actually haven't - I've been keeping a physical list of things that I have gotten accomplished. It still feels like the mountain of things I should be doing just feels even bigger and more overwhelming.
THERAPIST: Like somehow when you get things done, it makes you feel like you have even more to do?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah, I don't know, it doesn't make much sense does it? [00:13:42]
THERAPIST: Well is there any more you can say about what it's like or what kind of logic you're using there?
CLIENT: Well I don't know. (pause) Part of it is certainly as I'm making progress, specifically on you know, making my apartment more bearable and less cluttered and stuffed full of things, the more I feel like this is good but it could be perfect, right? So you know, I've gotten rid of this gigantic piece of electronic, like literally like this big, sitting... like taking up half my desk.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
<br />
 CLIENT: Okay, so now I've got this desk space. I could I don't know, buy some more shelves to organize the rest of the stuff sitting on my desk.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or you know, figure out some kind of storage unit solution or something, for Dave's crap, so that it doesn't drive me as crazy as it does. You know, now that the big thing that's been the focus of all my attention is gone, I can see all these other smaller projects that I could work on. So there's that and there's also you know, some things have been sitting on my to-do list. I'm really ashamed about this one, but there is one piece of financial paperwork that's been sitting on my to-do list for three years. And now that I don't have the giant physical piece of metal sitting on my desk, and now that I don't have the thesis to work on, it's like okay, there's nothing higher priority than sorting out this. So I used to have an IRA account, because my mother was working for the company, and they fired her on Christmas of all times. [00:15:31]
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: Fucking ass holes.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Three years ago and then sued her.
THERAPIST: Oh my gosh.
CLIENT: Yeah. It went to arbitration and she won, and they're now paying her damages and lawyers fees because it was bullshit. When she left the company, I no longer had the family member benefits, so I've been paying fees on those accounts.
THERAPIST: I see.
<br />
 CLIENT: For three years. And I really should open an IRA account with another brokerage firm and transfer them, but that requires getting on the phone and calling another brokerage firm, calling them, figuring out which funds can be transferred directly and which funds aren't carried by the new brokerage firm, selling those and cashing them out, and then picking new funds to buy with the cash, and it's just I hate calling people on the phone and I hate not knowing what's going on, and I hate dealing with people who - like dealing with sales type people.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:16:30]
CLIENT: And I know when my sister tried to close out her accounts, the person she talked to on the phone tried to talk her out of leaving -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - Which of course that's their job, but I don't know, I don't want to deal with someone trying to convince me to stay with the firm that fired my mother on Christmas. But of course this means that I've been staying with them and paying them for three years which you know, doesn't make any kind of sense. But now there's nothing higher priority than that on my to-do list, because my thesis is done.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I submitted my intent to graduate and the stupid fucking transfer credit, and I cleared off my desk and like...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That was hard and (sighs) so now I feel even worse about not doing it, because now I don't have the excuse of well, I've been under a lot of pressure and I can't - don't have the energy to cope with it. [00:17:32]
THERAPIST: Right. Right, so it (pause) - I mean different task, same shit.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: And ah, (pause) yeah, and I guess part of the whole paradigm is that not only is it different task, same shit, but it's different task, same shit, no accounting for the task that you've just gotten done. [00:18:46]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That were hard to do. (pause) Which I guess leaves you feeling kind of similarly bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) (sighs) [00:19:48]
THERAPIST: Did you have another thought?
CLIENT: Oh, I was just thinking of these wedding invitations I need to set. There's three cards and two envelopes that need to be set, and that's a lot of text. I have the print shop reserved for today and tomorrow and I'm just hoping I can get it all done.
THERAPIST: Ah-huh.
CLIENT: Because I don't have key card access to the office since I graduated from Harvard.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which means I need people to let me in and I don't know if anyone is going to be around on Saturday to let me in, if I don't get it done today and tomorrow. (pause) And I'm also... Printing anything on the letter press is you know, an eight to twelve hour project in the best of times, because you have individual pieces of type, one letter per piece of lead type, so you have to lay it all out and space it, and then the type sits in an iron frame that's about yea big, and you have pieces of wood that you put between the type and the edge of the frame, if your type doesn't fill up the frame, which it won't. If you've got a chase this big and the thing you're printing is like this big, for a wedding invitation. [00:21:11]
THERAPIST: I see, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Right. And then you've got what we call coins, that are little spring-loaded mechanisms that you put between the pieces of wood and you twist them with a key and they press outwards and apply pressure. And so that's what holds the type in place. You can then lift up the chase and shake it around and the type won't fall out. That's called locking up text and good luck getting that to work, because it's basically holding things in place with friction and it's more of an art than a science of you know, maybe I need a tiny little shim here, maybe I need a shim a millimeter thick. No, actually I need two millimeters. No, I need two millimeters here but three here.
THERAPIST: That sort of reminds me of like trying to get a table with many - a big table with many, many legs, to stay flat.
CLIENT: Yes. So there's that. And then once you get it locked up, you put it in the machine, and of course there are these two giant plates, one of which holds the paper and one of which holds the type, that move together at speed. And of course you're sticking your hand in between them to pull out the paper as soon as it's inked, and then slide in another piece of paper. So you can imagine, you've got these two plates. They pull apart, you reach in with one hand and grab the paper that's in there and immediately with the other hand, put in a new piece of paper, and get your hands out before the two sides smash together. [00:22:32]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: It's actually remarkably dangerous.
THERAPIST: And you do that because like if you're printing the same page... Oh wait a minute. Why do you do it that way? In other words, -
CLIENT: Because that was the best technology that was around at the time it was made.
THERAPIST: No, sorry, no that's - I don't mean like why, that I got, but why do you have to change both the paper and the type each time?
CLIENT: You don't change the type. The type stays in there.
THERAPIST: All right, so this is for printing like the hundred first pages of the invitation.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay, got it.
CLIENT: And then there are three pages plus two envelopes to print.
THERAPIST: Right. But I still get it, you have to reach in and pull out the paper every time, without getting your hands mushed.
CLIENT: And there is actually a member of our fraternity who lost his hand doing this.
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness.
CLIENT: He was working at 3:00 in the morning. He really wanted to finish the job that night and he should have -
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: He had already put eighteen hours in the shop and he really should have gone home. Since then, there have been strict safety protocols implemented about how long you can work and how much sleep you have to have before you can work, because... [00:23:39]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I'm kicking myself for not having kept my skills up over the years, because the last time I actually did a job was in 2008. Yeah, I'm trying to find someone who can do the actual impressions for me, if I set and lock up the type, because I'm not convinced that I can do it safely.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't know. I kind of feel like a loser for having to ask for help. (pause) I mean not that I'm letting my pride stop me from asking for help, because that would be even more dumb than just feeling like a loser for needing the help.
THERAPIST: I see, but it still sucks.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's still a hit to my ego. (pause)
THERAPIST: What kind of loser are you for asking for help with this? [00:24:41]
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. I haven't thought that far. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you have any thoughts? (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know, just this sense that well, I should have made the time to come in and keep doing jobs every couple of months, so that I could keep my skills up and not have this four-year gap. And I should be able to just do it because clearly, I learned once. You know, I wasn't born knowing how to operate this press, so you know, I should just figure it out maybe? Like, I don't know, maybe I could operate the machine just on the fly wheel and control it by hand, so I'm in complete control of the speed. [00:26:22]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And not turn on the motor until I get back into the rhythm of it. I shouldn't need help, damn it. (pause)
THERAPIST: You should have been more on top of things. You should have another way figured out so that you don't need somebody's help, that kind of thing?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess I was smiling because this - I know you don't entirely feel this way, but I think you do admit. This sounds to me like a metaphor for therapy for you, in that you're not thrilled about seeking help. [00:27:37]
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: To deal with really quite dangerous and sometimes damaging machinery. I guess to me there seems to be something similar about like the physical danger that you feel for this machinery and the worry that you have about the next three months?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: You know?
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: Like if you're not careful, if you don't do things right over the next three months, you're really going to let yourself have it. And um, you're not thrilled about asking for help in either case and feel like of course, this is stuff you should be more on top of or more in control, you know more control or it should be happening this way or something. (pause) I'm not quite sure honestly, like what my point is in saying that, but it occurred to me. [00:28:49]
CLIENT: I was also thinking as I drove over here, about this incident when I was ten or eleven. I was going to catholic school and we were required to attend mass every Friday morning, and the choir duties rotated through each classroom. So every Friday, one of the classrooms was the choir for the Friday mass, and we had choir practice on Thursday afternoons. At one point my choir director asked me if I could sing in a different kind of voice, and I had no idea what she was talking about. And she was like well, if you can't sing properly, I want you to just lip-synch during choir, because your voice is that terrible. And you know that same year, she cracked a joke on her birthday about celebrating the first anniversary of her 29th birthday. And it just hit me this morning that I am the same age she was when she said those horrible things to me. And just thinking about the ten and the eleven year-olds in my church, I would never tell one of them not to sing during services. That's just... And there are some kids who have some pretty terrible voices. [00:30:11]
THERAPIST: Of course there are.
CLIENT: But you know, that's because their voices are actually bad because they are untrained or because they read something in a book and were trying to mimic that without - I don't know, whatever. Like who on earth? Like I can't even imagine saying something like that to a child. (pause) Yeah. Like at worst, if I were doing auditions for a competitive choral group or something, I might suggest that they you know, have private instruction and then try again, but I would never tell them not to sing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That is just... (pause)
THERAPIST: Horrible.
CLIENT: (sighs) I just, I can't - I mean apart from the adults who were just flat out cruel to me, which you know, the music teacher was one of them. My parents and you know, my sixth grade math teacher who was utterly horrid to me. Like where were the authority figures who were supposed to be on my side, who were supposed to see the child on child bullying I experienced and step in? Like... (pause) And it's just so hard to believe that there was not a single adult in my entire childhood who saw what was going on, that I'm starting to mistrust my memories. It's just so incomprehensible to me that no one saw what was going on and no one did anything that you know, maybe I'm just remembering everything wrong, because it's... [00:32:16]
THERAPIST: I got it. I'm not sure why nobody saw. I mean some of it is if your parents don't see and don't want to see kind of things, but I don't know, but ah, you're not making it up.
CLIENT: And I feel the same way with my department, like there's - my research advisor isn't in my department, she's in CS, not EE.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And every time I asked her, what do I need to do to graduate? What paperwork do I need to do? Do I need to do a public defense of my thesis? She was like, oh I don't know, you're not in my department. I've been working for you, busting my ass, and you can't help me figure out what paperwork I need. The written guidelines were very unclear. My academic advisor in my department kept brushing me off in my attempts to meet with her you know? I don't have time, maybe next week, I'm busy, I'm out of town, bla bla bla. I ended up having to go talk to my department head by myself, when most students would have their advisors handle this paperwork for them and it's just - [00:33:40]
THERAPIST: I see. The norm is for the advisors to usually do it.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I just I don't know. It's the same feeling of there's no one in my corner and that (pause) (sighs) I end up wondering what's wrong with me, that I'm not worth it to anyone, that no one wants to be in my corner, like. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess it seems to me like that's one of the (pause) most horrible things about being treated that way when you're ten or eleven, younger, and that it's so clear to you now, like you were saying, is that that kid doesn't know how horribly they're being treated. They know how horribly they feel. [00:34:47]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But they often, especially if other things line up as they did for you, feel like it's just them.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Which doesn't go away too easily. (pause) Do you have thoughts or worries about what it is about you when you feel this way? [00:35:52]
CLIENT: Not specifics. Just a general belief that clearly there's something wrong with me. (pause)
THERAPIST: Is there any extent to which you feel this way here? Like that I'm, in one way or another, sort of leaving you alone with the things that you're struggling with, or could or would be helping you in a different way if you were different? [00:36:54]
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: I didn't have a - other than sort of - it seems to me, an implication that you felt that way often and in many places. I didn't have a reason to think you were feeling it here. In other words, there wasn't some other reason besides that, that I had mentioned it. I just figured I'd ask. (pause) Yeah, if it does seem that way, that wasn't the case.
CLIENT: Okay. (pause) [00:37:55] [00:38:17]
THERAPIST: Nobody growing up, had a sense of your like struggling, being depressed, being picked on, being kind of alienated. (pause) And it felt to you how, like there must have been people seeing it and they just felt you deserved it, and that's how it supposed to be, you feeling like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:39:21]
Or maybe I was just so arrogant and dislikeable that no one noticed that I was being bullied and felt miserable all the time. Or maybe they cared so much about the trophies I could win, that they didn't give a shit about anything else and didn't want to say anything unless they changed the magic formula or whatever, that caused me to bring home so many trophies, because I brought home a whole lot of trophies.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: There was one competition, my fifth grade teacher sent me to sentence diagramming for speed.
THERAPIST: Oh god.
CLIENT: I won. Fastest sentence diagrammer on the Coast. Go me. (blandly stated)
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
CLIENT: Who the hell even diagrams sentences any more? Didn't that like go out of fashion in the 1950s? Like what the fuck? [00:40:27]
THERAPIST: Just after letter presses I think.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But that someone cared about, like in other words, that was worth your time and energy and somebody else's interest, but not say that you were miserable.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or suffering socially.
CLIENT: My teacher brought a cake to school the next Monday to celebrate that I had won the grammar diagramming, the sentence diagramming contest. (pause) [00:41:29]
THERAPIST: How did you react to things like that?
CLIENT: At the time I was proud of winning.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I think the... (pause) I think it was junior year of high school that the disgust at all of these competitions set in, in the sense that you know, this is just you know, a trained monkey. A little monkey in the hat, playing at the carnival of the little...
THERAPIST: Yeah, like (inaudible), yeah.
CLIENT: But up to that point I was proud and happy when I won. I really enjoyed the attention.
THERAPIST: Ah-huh.
CLIENT: (sighs)
THERAPIST: Sure, because the grownups get excited about it.
CLIENT: And it's hard not to be disgusted at that in hindsight. There's a part of me that wants to say what was I thinking, like I should have been able to see through it. But then I realized, you know, developmentally now, there's no way a ten year-old could have been able to see through it. [00:42:48]
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now. We'll talk more tomorrow.
END TRANSCRIPT
