Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session 15.
(pause)
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Oh, (inaudible at 0:00:17.0).
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right there.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Oh.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right here.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right here.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: OK, thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Oh. Hmm. Nothing to say. (inaudible) talked to you the last time about being afraid to be friendly with a man because they might think that I'm after them. And you said that it was alright to be friendly and I agree with you. I think that men are friendly to me because I'm friendly. I don't know why I'm friendly.
COUNSELOR: You don't know why you're friendly?
PATIENT: Yes. I guess I feel like I'm friendly. But you know what? You know about — I told you a couple of years ago that I went out with someone a few times and the relationship was not physical. And this also happened with someone I met this summer; the one that I know now.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:01:46.9)
PATIENT: Yes, this time. In fact, I'm still seeing him (inaudible). And I was just wondering why this has happened to me twice in two years. You know. And I just wonder if men like that, that are not — that don't seem to be homosexual but don't seem to be into a woman, they just seem to be asexual, maybe they feel that I'm an easy person to be friendly with; perhaps they feel that I'm (inaudible). They feel inadequate (inaudible at 0:02:34.2).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes, some of the stuff constantly that made me — yes, I think a similar answer, probably; but I think that a man who's really functioning as a man who's dating, perhaps not always available to me but (inaudible at 0:03:00.8). So if a man is dating me and he's not (inaudible), then there's something wrong because if he's not interested in me then he would be dating someone else (inaudible). And so I think that these men see me as something — as something less than what they want. They see me as (inaudible at 0:03:31.0). They ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes, a friend but they don't feel inadequate, so it's not like a date thing. But at the same time, they wish that they were with someone else, someone that is better; or they feel that — they feel — they don't like the fact they're going out with someone who's (inaudible). So they'll go out with me. They might like me as a friend; as the same time, they resent being with me or being friends with me because they don't feel inadequate ...
COUNSELOR: They don't feel inadequate?
PATIENT: As men. They do (inaudible at 0:04:13.6)
COUNSELOR: They do feel inadequate.
PATIENT: (inaudible) So it's like they would be (inaudible). Yes. And it's also (inaudible) these men perhaps could be induced to (inaudible), so they could have physical relationships but it would have to be with someone that they find more attractive; that they think — someone that they aspire to be with. But their inadequate feelings prevent them from approaching these kinds of women; like a beautiful blond or something. And so I think that these men are the very ones that — I think the men that are the easiest for me to make friends with are also the ones that are least likely to become lovers of mine, or boyfriends or husbands.
COUNSELOR: OK. [They're easy to make friends with] (ph).
PATIENT: They're easy to make friends with but they're ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:05:19.0)
PATIENT: Yes, but they're the very ones that are the least likely to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: And that's because they aren't really that interested in you?
PATIENT: Yes, they're not interested in me and they resent being with me. They'll go out with me sometimes but they really don't like the fact that I'm with them. They think that going out with me reflects on their inadequacy as men.
COUNSELOR: So somehow they resented you as some kind of evidence of how they're inadequate.
PATIENT: Yes. And I think this is really true of the one that I liked; that I did have a relationship with, even though he's married. Maybe he's in that category. I don't mean that — I mean he's certainly a fine-looking man but maybe he doesn't really feel that adequate. Maybe he doesn't feel that intensely (inaudible at 0:06:20.5).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) when people go out (inaudible) attracted to who somehow bring that out of being himself (inaudible) other people.
PATIENT: Yes. But the fact that they don't like the fact that they're with me prevents the relationship from going any further.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) they really don't want (inaudible) feelings about being inadequate.
PATIENT: Yes, yes. Or (inaudible at 0:07:02.3) or having a relationship with me.
COUNSELOR: And so it's kind of (inaudible).
PATIENT: That's the way I am (inaudible). [But the men there are strong but I should have been strong] (ph). I don't think I'm going to — you know, not saying anything is going to happen but what if I need someone who's really [serious and stuff] (ph); someone who's not going to ask me out or be interested in me because I'm the last choice. But these kinds of men are not the easiest ones to make friends with. They — they're involved or married or something. They're not as accessible to me (inaudible at 0:07:52.0).
COUNSELOR: They're not as available, so they don't search you out in the same way.
PATIENT: No, they're not searching me out. I don't think the others do either. It just sort of happens (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: [Some things I really want to understand what it could be like to be with someone] (ph). It really has to be with someone who feels more adequate than a lot of people; a lot of men.
PATIENT: Yes, I think so. (inaudible at 0:08:24.6)
COUNSELOR: Well, you've said a lot (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yes. You know, it's funny. Now the one that I (inaudible at 0:08:57.7) and then he doesn't talk (inaudible). But when I invited him up to my apartment (inaudible) he came but he was really uncomfortable. And I think — you know, I think he's uncomfortable being with — I think a lot of guys (inaudible at 0:09:28.2) think a platonic relationship (inaudible). Maybe they feel that if they stay too long with someone, with a girl, that they're expected to do something.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:09:41.8) [confused about that too, right] (ph)?
PATIENT: Now, in this case I don't think it's a real normal thing. It is a feeling that (inaudible at 0:09:51.9). But I still think he would rather it not — he would rather not be with me; you know, as a date. Because I'm not as (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: He can't show you off.
PATIENT: That's right.
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm not so sure what to think about that because ...
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: I'm not quite sure what — how that makes you feel; makes you feel all the time.
PATIENT: Well — well, I feel kind of lost because I don't know how to get close to the kind of man that would really be right for me.
COUNSELOR: So now I see what kind of man you're looking for and I see what kind of man you like, but I really don't have any way of (inaudible at 0:10:50.9).
PATIENT: Well, because that kind of man (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: They're all taken already.
PATIENT: Yes, well I suppose I should just keep on being friendly with them. (inaudible at 0:11:09.8) always friendly (inaudible). I should seem accessible. I should seem a little ...
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) I know what you're saying. (inaudible)
PATIENT: I should be more available to them as a person; not (inaudible). I should seem — appear to be open. I think that ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:11:31.8).
PATIENT: Which will leave me open for friendships with more (inaudible). I don't know what kind of patient — patient — client (inaudible). Is that a problem? Do you find many women who go out with men who don't make passes? I'm not saying that that's always a problem. I'm certain that this guy I like, I'm not bowled over by him or anything. I could be interested (inaudible at 0:12:21.3) ...
COUNSELOR: But isn't it ...?
PATIENT: ... but I don't have a terrible infatuation for him.
COUNSELOR: But you're wondering why. Is this part of what you're doing? It's like, "What is it? Is it something about me that's maybe doing it?" or (inaudible at 0:12:31.2)?
PATIENT: No, I think if someone is 35 and he's not married or dating, I'm pretty sure that it's a problem with women. It would indicate a problem with women.
COUNSELOR: OK. (inaudible at 0:12:45.4) it's got to be something about you.
PATIENT: Yes, well, he said he doesn't have any girlfriends. I don't think — no, I don't blame myself. I'm not blaming myself as far as like (inaudible at 0:13:09.3).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) have much left.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) it's so hard when it doesn't — you know, when he doesn't [sit with you or do something with you] (ph). (inaudible) figure out what that means (inaudible).
PATIENT: No. I see the problem as him. Oh, maybe there is somebody that he would like but I do think that there is a problem. I don't know. I was more concerned about the man who wanted (inaudible at 0:14:16.8). You know it's very interesting; the ones that I came to be with (inaudible) two days last week (inaudible) and he changed. He took his shirt off and his tie and suit jacket and wore a work shirt all day and then at the end of the day changed back into it. So naturally I thought that he was doing this because he was seeing a woman at the school. So — and I assume that he was with his wife but he was having an affair at his school. Now I don't think that a married man (inaudible at 0:15:09.9) but still there's some kind of lack of (inaudible). You know, I think there's something about wanting — if someone wants to see you regularly, they still like you; even though he might not think [that the best kind of relationship is fair to the woman] (ph).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:15:28.8)
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well, I thought he was having an affair.
COUNSELOR: Yes, seeing a woman at school.
PATIENT: It doesn't have to be that because I'm sure that he (inaudible at 0:15:41.8).
COUNSELOR: But if it was that, then ...
PATIENT: Well, I just felt — well, then that's when I start thinking that he's — you know, he'll see someone else regularly but not me. You know, there's more than one way to cheat on your wife. You can cheat on your wife by just going out with somebody once or twice or seeing them a few times and you can cheat on your wife with someone that you really love and you want to see regularly.
COUNSELOR: So, I see. So when you felt like he's changing, that meant that he was seeing somebody regularly.
PATIENT: Yes, that he really likes; but he never liked me that way.
COUNSELOR: And then he felt bad because he never liked you that way.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: He never liked you enough to want to see you regularly.
PATIENT: I saw that as very selfish (inaudible at 0:16:43.3).
COUNSELOR: It feels like (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know what he — because when a person is married, you shouldn't want to see them anyway. But that's not — what concerns me is the fact that it was almost as if he had slept with somebody else. Well, in those kinds of cases, I would wonder, you know, what's wrong with me that you don't feel that way about me; whereas (inaudible at 0:17:16.9) not physical, I can see where even though he's not attracted to me, that this is a general problem of his.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: So therefore (inaudible).
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: And that makes you feel very (inaudible) unable to hold a man.
PATIENT: Yes, I try not to feel that way but I suppose I do.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I suppose I do.
COUNSELOR: You would really like not to but it's there with you.
PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible at 0:18:04.6).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Of course, then I tell myself well of course I think I know why. You know, maybe it's physical. But if it's physical, why did he ever want to have anything to do with me? That I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:18:27.5)
PATIENT: Now see, that whole thing bothers me. If he doesn't want to see me regularly or didn't fall for me, so to speak, because I had a physical deformity — why does he — why did he ever want to have anything to do with me at all? Why didn't I just turn him completely off? But I suppose the physical thing stops (inaudible at 0:19:03.6). I suppose when you object to a person physically, you can last until a certain point. When you think you like a person physically and [you dump them] (ph) — because if I don't like somebody physically, I don't like them occasionally either.
COUNSELOR: So it feels very confused to you because he seems to like you physically and then he seems to stop liking you physically. Is that it?
PATIENT: It's like he still flirts with me. He still seems to respond to me. But not — I thought like if — he still will respond to me — you know, in a flirtatious way — or make a pass but he doesn't like me well enough to see me regularly like he would someone else. And I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's the part that hurts.
PATIENT: Yes, and I don't understand. Now the way I would react if he wanted to is another matter. It's the fact that he doesn't want to.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I understand.
PATIENT: And that's what I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: Because (inaudible at 0:20:30.1) less somehow than that person who you really love. (inaudible)
PATIENT: But maybe I'm somewhat — maybe when a person is not that physically attractive, maybe you don't want to see them all the time. Maybe you just don't have that extra feeling that that holds.
COUNSELOR: Maybe he doesn't [express that] (ph).
PATIENT: Of course, not being a man, I don't understand. I guess I don't understand how — you know, exactly how a man reacts; how men feel; why a man wants to see one woman regularly and not another one.
COUNSELOR: We don't know goes to make up that.
PATIENT: No. Especially if you're physically attracted to both of them.
COUNSELOR: Why does he only seem willing just sometimes and not all the time if you like a person?
PATIENT: Well, I suppose it's personality. I suppose it's personality (inaudible at 0:21:38.5) or that he likes the other person's ...
COUNSELOR: So sometimes it feels like there's something wrong with your personality.
PATIENT: I don't know. You know what? He thinks I'm funny and everything; he has fun with me. I just can't imagine — well, maybe he's not seeing someone. I don't know; I was just saying (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: But he says that (inaudible) he likes plenty of things about you. What is it he doesn't like about you? (pause) Yes.
PATIENT: Yes. So — I mean I don't know what I should do with those kinds of questions; how do people feel about me.
COUNSELOR: Yes, (inaudible at 0:22:58.5).
PATIENT: I feel (inaudible) should I not care. I know — I don't care if (inaudible at 0:23:05.2). I'm really getting tired of loneliness. Well, I suppose that he just doesn't like me well enough to see me regularly; he doesn't want to.
COUNSELOR: But that's seems very hard to explain (inaudible).
PATIENT: At this minute, it doesn't seem that important, so ...
COUNSELOR: Well, what is it you have (inaudible at 0:23:51.9) some kind of feeling that you have like feeling nothing if you get a man coffee. (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes. Well, that's why it's a (inaudible) few dates, a few flirtations, a few looks and know nobody who really cares.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:24:29.4)
PATIENT: Well, over time.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: But you know, (inaudible). I just don't see myself as unlovable. Maybe I am but I just can't see it. I just can't imagine. There's too many — you know, I have a girlfriend who thinks looks are very important in getting a man and I think she feels it's the way it should be. She judges her men largely by the way they look. She pretends — you know, she talks about being (inaudible at 0:25:39.6) but she's very physical. And so I found it interesting that her boyfriend had a friend in town and she arranged for him to go out with another friend of ours who was — who was [good-looking] (ph). Now she's white, her boyfriend is black and this friend that came is black. So (inaudible) well that's alright, I don't care. The reason I'm telling you is that the color did not play a part (inaudible at 0:26:13.5). But this guy [this boyfriend's friend to go out with], the girl — another girlfriend of ours, who's white and she's blond and she's real — she's good-looking. So I'm telling you this, the racial setup here, so that you know that ...
COUNSELOR: Had no part.
PATIENT: ... that this didn't play a part; that she didn't ask this guy to go out with her friend ...
COUNSELOR: Yes, I understand that.
PATIENT: Alright. And so I said, "Well, you know what? I don't like that she would assume that this guy would like my other girls — you know, the other girls — and she wouldn't even think of setting up a blind date with me (inaudible)." I've got other friends that would — you know, they would ...
COUNSELOR: Set up a blind date for you?
PATIENT: Yes, they would. They would do this but ...
COUNSELOR: But I guess you were saying it made you hurt or angry (inaudible at 0:27:04.4) that way?
PATIENT: Well, I just kind of — I wasn't angry. I probably — I don't know the guy. I don't care. I don't care about blind dates that much. But it just showed her values, this assumption of hers.
COUNSELOR: So yes, [I can see] (ph). And she wouldn't want you because you don't look good enough.
PATIENT: Yes. It's almost as if she's saying that. I don't know. I can't (inaudible at 0:27:33.8).
COUNSELOR: Like that annoys you; critical like that.
PATIENT: Yes, and — yes, I think she's — of course, this whole thing, physical thing with her, I find rather annoying.
COUNSELOR: Is she so (inaudible at 0:27:52.6).
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: It's irritating.
PATIENT: In fact, you know, when she knows that I like somebody and this person doesn't come through, I'm actually ashamed that she knows. Because I always feel that she's thinking like this, "Oh, well, of course he doesn't like her. Who could blame him?" I feel that she feels this way; that this is the way she is. But she told me once that she went to a party and some guys were there with dates and she described some of these girls as fat and they had teeth missing. I said, "Well, why does that bother you?" She said, "Well, I don't see how they could stand women that look like that." Well, I don't know. I know I'm getting off the subject but ...
COUNSELOR: But it feels like she's very judging (inaudible at 0:28:41.3).
PATIENT: Yes, and I don't feel — and I get irritated sometimes even when I think about her because I feel that part of her judgment of me or someone else is on how they look.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:28:57.1)
PATIENT: Yes. She told me once that she went to a restaurant and she looked around at the waitresses and thought, "Oh, they're all dogs." And she told me once, "You know, I wouldn't mind if everybody in the world was good-looking." I suppose a lot of people think that way but they keep it to themselves.
COUNSELOR: And that really turns you off to see that ...
PATIENT: Yes, I'm very irritated with it. So I guess my original point in telling you this is that in wondering if — whether I can attract men or not, sometimes I can assess that by whether other people think that I can attract men or not. And certainly I saw that as an example of a person's assumption that I would not be attractive to a certain man.
COUNSELOR: Almost like you're (inaudible at 0:30:02.4) the power of (inaudible) other people think; like how attractive they (inaudible).
PATIENT: But then — yes.
COUNSELOR: And then this time was like one [power down] (ph).
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So that made you feel a little less lovable, too.
PATIENT: Because I was just with this friend and when I was with Sadie she told me, "Oh yeah, I went out with a friend." (inaudible at 0:30:27.4) I don't hold a man. She said, "Oh yes, I went out with a friend of hers and ..." Well, I knew. I overheard the conversation when she was asking those friends, "Would you go out with this friend (inaudible)?" And — now she has other friends, too, that she didn't set this guy up with. She's got other friends and they're not as cute as this particular girl. She set the guy up with the cutest girlfriends she has.
COUNSELOR: So, are you saying that makes the power (ph) thing less important? Like that's — the fact that she ...
PATIENT: It's important and — it's important and yet it's not important.
COUNSELOR: One way you look at it's important; one way it's not.
PATIENT: No. Yes, I think so. Well, in the sense that she didn't set her up with other people. And I think between all of us, this girl is the cutest and she's nice but she certainly wouldn't necessarily be the most fun to be with. She's fun but ...
COUNSELOR: She doesn't have everything.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: So you feel somewhat critical of her, too.
PATIENT: Yes, I — oh, well — oh, this friend of mine? Well, not really. I mean — no, I enjoy her company. No, I'm not critical of her in the sense that I'm saying that she's dull or anything but in the sense that — well, she is quiet. You know? She wouldn't exactly be the most talkative on a date or contribute the most.
COUNSELOR: Are you thinking that [in a way] (ph), "Like if I were on a date, I could be more talkative and contribute more"?
PATIENT: Well, I think I talk too much but — yes, I think I say more. I think I am more interesting. No, I know this sounds boasting, you know, but — yes, because even the guy that I went out with — with this one I'm talking about — he really thinks I have a lot of interest. Of course, I don't talk as much then as I do here. I'm a little different here because I'm trying to solve my problems. Socially, I'm a little different. Yes, I think I have more — I think I contribute more in conversations.
COUNSELOR: You have interesting things to say.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. Depends on who I'm talking to. You know. Somebody once (inaudible at 0:33:24.4) better now than they were then. It just depends on who the person is. I don't know if I have interesting things to say but people think (inaudible). But I was just — I was speaking of women who go out and don't say anything.
COUNSELOR: But you have something to say.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:33:50.6) I hope I don't sound like I'm trying to say that — you know, I'm not trying to tell you that I'm more interesting than she is. I was just ...
COUNSELOR: Well, is that how you feel, though? (inaudible)
PATIENT: We have mutual friends who think so.
COUNSELOR: I guess you're saying in a way you're feeling that way; right now, as you think about it. But you don't want me to get the impression that you're somehow boasting.
PATIENT: Well, no I'm not boasting. I'm really not. I'm just trying to be honest about what I have, what I (inaudible at 0:34:30.8).
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) (inaudible)
PATIENT: I don't know what she [says about me] (ph) but I — well yes, like I said, we have mutual friends who do think so. They haven't said it (inaudible at 0:34:43.8) [but had friends who said, "Well, you know"] (ph). In fact, there was a friend of mine at school — another guy (inaudible) — and he would ask me about her. He said, "You know, she's cute." He said, "But does she like music or does she like this or that? She didn't say much when we were all at the restaurant talking." And I heard — I went (inaudible at 0:35:04.5) and I heard someone say that she was kind of boring. And it's too bad because she can be interesting but she doesn't talk. You know, she does (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So it makes you feel like you have something. She may have beauty ...
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: ... and you may or may not have that. But you do have a kind of an ability to talk to people.
PATIENT: Yes, and I can make people laugh. I can think of something funny to say on (inaudible at 0:35:37.2). So, I guess my point is that she judged who this guy would like entirely by looks. She assumed that men are going to go by this. Maybe she's right but you could see her values. So naturally (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Her values are kind of shallow to you.
PATIENT: Yes. In fact, someone else told me, at one point, (inaudible at 0:36:04.9). (pause) Maybe she's right. Maybe (inaudible). I think, in general, she's right about men. It's not the fact that she's not right about men; it's the fact that she seems to feel that's the way it should be, that looks should be important.
COUNSELOR: Looks should be important; that that's how people should be judged.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: They should be graded on their looks.
PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible at 0:36:56.1).
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you're saying, "The time that I sit here and talk about this, I don't feel that's the way that I want to judge other people or want to be judged by other people; just by my looks."
PATIENT: But sometimes my date — sometimes I felt my dates [were the companion type] (ph); you know, it might be a (inaudible at 0:37:25.6).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: No, I don't think other women start talking with a man about (inaudible at 0:37:33.5) and stuff. I didn't hear all the women talking to men about being ...
COUNSELOR: You feel like (inaudible).
PATIENT: ... about whether [Jenny wanted to be with Don or not] (ph) or anything like that. (inaudible) companion. But you know what's really interesting: teenagers. (inaudible at 0:37:58.7) teenagers. Teenagers are very physical at picking (inaudible). They're very looks-conscious. And it's very odd that they will assume I'm married or ask me, "Who's your boyfriend?" or "Why don't you have a boyfriend?" and usually they're very — I think I told you that before and that makes me wonder again because they are honest. And I don't ...
COUNSELOR: Wonder what?
PATIENT: Well, I don't think they're calculating enough to be asking me just to find out, "I wonder if someone would want her?" It's just — it's sort of spontaneous.
COUNSELOR: What makes you wonder?
PATIENT: Well, they see me as someone who would have a husband or boyfriend like anyone else.
COUNSELOR: They see you as somebody who could be loved by someone.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Does that make you say, "Well, OK. Maybe I could be"?
PATIENT: Yes, but I don't know how teenagers see things. Why do they see it that way? Or maybe they're too na�ve to know any better.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's not knowing what makes them talk like that (inaudible) value is. (pause) So it feels like a lot of time — not a lot of time but a lot of the way you look at it is going around often you think "Who thinks that I could be loved by anyone? Who doesn't think that I could?" and keeping hoping, I guess, that people will think that you can be and keeping worrying that maybe you can't be.
PATIENT: But of course it could be a vicious circle. Maybe everybody thinks somebody else is lovable but they don't. I don't know. Do you think that the men are always trying to find out how people react?
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:40:18.1)
PATIENT: Oh, trying to find out what other people think? I have never been able to find out from any friend what some man has said about me. I have — you know ...
COUNSELOR: Well, I've told you what I think before.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: But you know what? (inaudible at 0:40:38.2)
PATIENT: You said you should ask.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I said that I feel that — I feel it's important to get information like that; if you want it. (inaudible at 0:40:52.5) if you have those kinds of doubts. I guess what I'm saying is I think there are ways to get information.
PATIENT: I can't figure out any way without making me feel (inaudible at 0:41:05.3).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I just can't see asking a man, you know, "Would you — [are you planning on being a friend?"] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Well, because that would [see him how] (ph)?
PATIENT: I don't know, putting him on the spot. You told me you asked somebody.
COUNSELOR: I never asked that question (inaudible at 0:41:46.0).
PATIENT: But you told me — you gave me something (inaudible). You said that you thought it was [kind of a discipline] (ph). You told me that one time. Well, most people, if I make any kind of remark about, "Oh, I need to get a man," think that I'm absolutely (inaudible at 0:42:08.2). Why? But I know — I think well if people do see it as possible, why doesn't it happen?
COUNSELOR: But I want to get back on that other thing I was saying before, which it sounds like you were saying that when you talk with people and you ask them questions about how they feel about you, it makes you feel like you're imposing on them somewhat.
PATIENT: Yes. And really too embarrassed to do it.
COUNSELOR: Yes. That's true. True. (inaudible at 0:42:52.6)
PATIENT: Well, (inaudible) thought on how I feel. I feel they wouldn't be honest. I feel that I would embarrass them. Any time that I have talked of this problem with anyone, they (inaudible) that has nothing to do with me; you know what is their problem. That has nothing to do with these people's feelings. Or "You need more confidence."
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like, in a way, you're concerned about it. You don't feel [that you're ever taken seriously] (ph); that they kind of brush it aside.
PATIENT: Yes, brush it aside. Only my shallow friends would (inaudible). You know.
COUNSELOR: So it's almost like unless they would admit there's this problem, (inaudible at 0:43:59.6) being honest. Is that right?
PATIENT: Yes, probably. But then maybe different people see it differently. I've seen men that I'd think would be attractive that other women might think were — you know, would think that these same men were unattractive. You know what I wanted to do once in my life? I wanted to pretend like I had a boyfriend because I thought that perhaps a lot of men are undecided about it. They see a woman with something wrong and they wonder would other men like her. I think maybe they feel that if other men do, then it's alright. A lot of men do judge women on what other men think.
COUNSELOR: What other men think. That's true.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:44:51.1) It's almost — of course, I think the kind of man that I would end up with would be one that didn't; (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) care about you and not be so worried what other people are thinking. (pause) (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes, do you want me to go then and ask (inaudible at 0:45:27.7) what they think about me?
COUNSELOR: Do I want you to what?
PATIENT: Now how do I do — now, I have to tell you something else but it's — and you tell me, OK, that's how you feel. How do I know whether this is right or not? For example, I told you that the kind of man that I was friendly with I thought was actually the type that would (inaudible at 0:45:54.3) and you said, "OK, you think that way." But should — how do I know that's right? I don't know if you think (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Well, how do you know — how do you decide what I (inaudible)? How do you decide ...
PATIENT: Because you (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: That's true. I guess the only answer to that is that I (inaudible at 0:46:35.6). I don't know if they're right. I don't know if they're right. (inaudible) there a lot of (inaudible).
PATIENT: I think — you know, what you're saying is that all these things I've been talking about in the last 15 sessions, there's really no answer. There's really no answer to this problem of whether (inaudible at 0:47:15.4) or whether it's physical and (inaudible). There's really no way to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess what I'm saying is that I think there are ways you can find out how (inaudible at 0:47:29.6) feel about it and then you can sort of draw your own generalizations (inaudible) how you feel (inaudible). But I'm saying (inaudible) there's nobody that can — there's nobody that can look down on the world and say, ["All men do that"] (ph) (inaudible).
PATIENT: Can we go by what has happened (inaudible at 0:47:57.8)? Isn't there a previous thing to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Indication that I'm not attractive to men. Now, is it physical plus something else or just physical? You see, I don't know. Know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Well ...
PATIENT: Or have I been unfriendly?
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:48:32.5) I guess what I am saying is I guess these questions are more answered in the way they (inaudible).
PATIENT: (inaudible) Well, I can never really know.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) It sounds like you really don't know.
PATIENT: Well, it's hard. But even why this — even this man we were talking about, why he sees someone and not me; there's no way I can ever know.
COUNSELOR: There may not be.
PATIENT: I can never know how I impress him or what it is that makes me not woman enough to impress him or anybody else. I can never know what minute little thing they're missing that makes the difference.
COUNSELOR: No, you might not know. No, it's like anything else. How do you find out anything, you know? There's something (inaudible at 0:49:52.1). You see somebody walking into the library. You never know where they're coming from. You never know where they're going. You don't know a lot of things in the world. But there are ways to try and find certain things out. You see what I'm saying?
PATIENT: Yes, but I'm all I'm saying is that the only answer I get is what has happened to me.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:50:25.2) different than that?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Yes, well. But that's when it's pretty depressing, correct?
PATIENT: The way that (inaudible at 0:50:44.6) depressing.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) [And it just seems to work] (ph).
PATIENT: It does seem depressing because I don't know. I just don't know what impression I have on men; probably none. I don't know. I guess I don't seem like a desirable woman to them. If I knew, though, OK, I could deal with it; that would be (inaudible at 0:51:09.1). Or maybe the answer is that I shouldn't care. Sometimes I don't think I do.
COUNSELOR: Right. But sometimes I guess you're saying things feel bad and maybe you'll get out of it if you stop wishing they were better.
PATIENT: You know, I have another friend. She thinks that — I've never talked to her about this but she said, "Oh, you know, you're more selective." Now (inaudible at 0:51:58.5) be more selective. You want somebody (inaudible). You don't want just anybody. Well, that sounds all well and good but if I was turning down other people, I could accept that; but I'm not turning anybody down. There's no one to turn down. So I don't know why ...
COUNSELOR: That doesn't seem true to you, what she said.
PATIENT: I guess the answer would be is that I'm not friendly with people that I know I'd never be interested in. If I was friendly to everybody, then people that I'm not interested in would be more — I would be more accessible to people. Maybe I don't make myself accessible.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you aren't initially accessible and friendly to lots of people ...
PATIENT: That I wouldn't (inaudible at 0:52:49.6). But don't men just speak to women that they want to talk to? I don't know. Maybe that's it.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're ...
PATIENT: But then why wouldn't I attract the men that I do like? I'm certainly friendly to enough. But I guess (inaudible at 0:53:22.2) and I don't know if it's true. (inaudible) And I don't know if they're right or what.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like (inaudible).
PATIENT: No, I don't have anyone. Couldn't find anyone. (inaudible) Nobody knows anybody. Any man that has made a statement about me ...
COUNSELOR: Nobody knows anybody?
PATIENT: No, no one ever told me that they heard anything. I have no idea of what impression that all of you, every woman — you know, how would you like to go out with (inaudible at 0:54:21.7)? You know? I don't know if anybody ever asked that. I don't know. What would the average man say? "Well, I wouldn't go out with (inaudible) because ..." You know. How would most men finish that statement, "I would not go out with her because ..."?
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: And I just wish I knew. "Oh, she's too frilly" or "She acts like a little girl" or "She's ..."
COUNSELOR: So you feel shut out.
PATIENT: From all the knowing, yes.
COUNSELOR: Yes, knowing. Yes. And no way to get to know those kinds of things. Well, let me just say a little about that. I think there are some things you can do about that and I think one of them is if you (inaudible at 0:55:11.8) interesting and doing the therapy group (inaudible), sometimes in those kinds of groups you get some information about how to be clear about what you're feeling. It's a place where you can ask people how they feel about things? You can learn ...
PATIENT: Where would I find a therapy group?
COUNSELOR: Where would you find one?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't know ...
PATIENT: I'm a little afraid of it but (inaudible at 0:55:53.0).
COUNSELOR: Well, there are several around. I don't know how much they cost but there's (inaudible). And also, [I'd just like] (ph) to encourage you because I agree and I feel, in a sense, somehow (inaudible) and I don't know quite know why. It feels, in a sense, useless for me to tell you this but I feel like for me it was very important (inaudible at 0:56:44.7) about me (inaudible). And I'd just like to encourage you (inaudible).
PATIENT: But you see, because I asked people this when I was in college. No, I ask people and still don't know how (inaudible at 0:57:06.1). They were telling me that (inaudible) or "You're too particular." But nothing from men. I think the couple of times I said something to men there was nothing; a couple of friends of mine.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:57:26.6)
PATIENT: Yes, because I feel it's not true. It's not true. Of course I (inaudible) but I haven't turned anybody down.
COUNSELOR: So (inaudible) and what it sounds like partly is that she doesn't know what they mean by that.
PATIENT: It sounded like what they mean is that people — that some people ask me out and I refuse.
COUNSELOR: [But it's true] (ph) so what you've got to (inaudible at 0:58:08.8) people think about you to let you think that about you.
PATIENT: I'd say (inaudible). (pause)
COUNSELOR: You thought about that.
PATIENT: No, and I don't even think they (extended inaudible at 0:58:43.2). They just looked at each other real funny. I know you've got to stop. I see what time it is.
COUNSELOR: Yes, (inaudible at 0:59:00.4). Yes, it's time to stop, yes.
PATIENT: [I actually think it's funny] (ph).
COUNSELOR: It's really not believing that you can get the truth from them.
PATIENT: No, because it has very bad results for me. Oh, my girlfriend said she (inaudible at 0:59:22.1). "Your face is alright (inaudible)." This is her answer to it. So maybe she is the only one (inaudible). Maybe (inaudible) she's concerned about me and knows (inaudible). You know, I'm really afraid of (inaudible) and I think maybe I'm a little selfish.
COUNSELOR: Selfish:
PATIENT: Well, people who talk about their problems (inaudible). But then I could make (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: But you'd kind of like to have — not share it. You'd like to have it all the time.
PATIENT: No, I'd want to — I wouldn't want to have it all the time but — no, maybe I would. Maybe I want to (inaudible at 1:00:23.6). I know (inaudible) but I'm — because (inaudible) other people (inaudible). I'll talk to you about that when I come back [in town] (ph); what I feel about it.
END TRANSCRIPT
