<b><center>MOTIVATIONAL INTERVIEWING WITH DR. WILLIAM MILLER</center></b>
<b><center>CLIENT 02 SESSION 02</center></b>
<center>______________________________________________________________________________</center>
<b>INTRODUCTION:</b>
William R. Miller, PhD, the originator of Motivational Interviewing, is Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of New Mexico and Director of Research for UNM's Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse &amp; Addictions. Dr. Miller has published 25 books and more than 200 articles and chapters on the treatment of alcoholism and other addictive behaviors.
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: I'm just curious what the process was like for you of sorting those out?
CLIENT: It was difficult because I spent hours.
THERAPIST: Lots of time. 
CLIENT: Hours. At night I don't sleep which is one of the things I need to develop some way of sleeping. I just took out the cards, and I just kept shifting them, and putting them in piles, and thinking I don't want to say that because then he'll think I'm selfish because so much of it was about myself; not so much about other people. And I finally said shit, I'm just going to do the way they feel right to me. [0:43:24]
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And that was the result. And there was a lot to choose from. They say the same thing in different words but they didn't mean the same things. You put me in a position to force myself to pick to really read them. I got a lot out of that in a sense that I really got to see what was valuable for me and what was important. 
THERAPIST: You thought a lot about this. 
CLIENT: A lot. Everyday just about until I finally came to the conclusion... I asked my husband, I asked my daughter, and they go mom you know who you are just pick it out the way it is and so there they are. [0:44:13]
THERAPIST: Good. Well that's the way I'd hoped you would do it also. 
CLIENT: The very important the pile got so big I had to...
THERAPIST: It's a big pile. That's right.
CLIENT: I wrote some other stuff in there that weren't in there.
THERAPIST: Yeah, there were some cards where you could write on them things that weren't included and you used those too.
CLIENT: They might be in something else but I didn't see it. 
THERAPIST: That's fine. I had a quick look through these and what I want to talk about most of all is the ones that you said were most important. And on top here you put the ones that's out of this large number here you picked out, I think, about 12 or so that seem to rise to the top. 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And so those are the ones that I'm really most interested in hearing about. Let me just kind of lay them out here and we can then have a look at them. Family, fitness, purpose, spirituality, health, inner peace, self esteem, ecology, autonomy, this says be conscious of holding judgments of others, resolve conflict. [0:45:19]
CLIENT: That's a big one for me. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. So these are really important ones? Resolve conflict, not to ignore dismiss, minimize, or deny what's going on; to be listened to and to be seen. All right. Maybe we'll start with those since they were so important that you wrote them down as something of special interest for you. So might we start with this one because you said it's so important to be conscious of forming judgments of other people? Tell me about that. 
CLIENT: I went to a summer meditation for three months and when I got through, my teacher, Menendro (sp?), said before I reacclimate into the city I want to tell you one of the major issues you're going to have to deal with and that's your judgment. You judge everything that you see whether it's the flowers aren't blooming properly, or someone's dragging their child, or a dog is being abused. You're going to find fault with everything so you need to know. So he takes me to the city, and I got so sick I ended up in the hospital because everything that we are so unaware of what we do, and what we say, and it just hit me like a ton of bricks. So what I've been learning and developing is a consciousness of when I judge and I do that. It's a constant thing for me to be always aware of what I'm doing outside of myself to others. So that's why that was for me really important to me. [0:47:06]
THERAPIST: And let me understand. Is it that you would like to pursue the opposite of that? You'd like to be more accepting and less judging?
CLIENT: Be more aware that I'm judging so that I can switch it to non-judgment. 
THERAPIST: Yes. Okay, to catch it when those judging thoughts are coming through. 
CLIENT: I had a mother that judged everything. I'm telling you it's beautiful out and she'd say it's too hot, and I realize that I got that from her that everything she judged negatively. She was about people, things, you name it. So it's something I've consciously been working on, and I'm always feeling that I have to catch myself continually. So it is an important one for me.
THERAPIST: But that's what you want to do to catch yourself when you are making judgments of people in particular and to let that go. To be more accepting of people and less judging. [0:48:09]
CLIENT: And it's not easy. 
THERAPIST: Oh no. It must be a constant discipline.
CLIENT: Habits are just not easy to change. It's frustrating but it's possible.
THERAPIST: And you became especially aware of that during this long period of silence.
CLIENT: That's when I really became aware of it.
THERAPIST: So that must've helped you to be more conscious of this when it happens. 
CLIENT: And I'm better.
THERAPIST: And you're better at it. Right. So that's a long term goal to become even more...
CLIENT: Well even in my relationship with my husband it's a continual thing that I need to pay attention to.
THERAPIST: Right. Not something you can fix just like that and it's done.
CLIENT: No. 
THERAPIST: But discipline. And this next one that you wrote, resolve conflicts, and not ignore it, not suppress it, not overlook it and deny it, tell me about that one. 
CLIENT: Well it's important to me because no matter what I did as a kid it was never enough and it was never right. [0:49:16]
THERAPIST: So that's a part of what you were just talking about of being judged constantly.
CLIENT: I can't deal with an issue that I can't resolve. I won't let it go under the carpet. I have to deal with it now, or I need to have a commitment that I can go back to it at a later date. It's my kids, or my husband, or a friend, if they do or they say things that don't fit, or are ignoring, I can't do that. I have to confront the issue at the time otherwise I can't sleep, and I get frustrated so it's a big one for me. [0:50:14]
THERAPIST: You don't want to let things like that go.
CLIENT: I can't.
THERAPIST: When you're aware there's a conflict you want to deal with it or at least know that you're going to deal with it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm always in the shithouse because I'm always confronting whatever comes up. I do also give when it's beautiful, or I've made a mistake, and I can go back and think about, I'll come back, and I'll apologize for it, and tell the issue that created my responsibility to that. I do that but it's not always accepted. And my confronting issues isn't always accepted. People don't want to see. Most times, including my children, they want to hide it or they don't want to discuss it. Anyone, whether it's a friend or in business... When I was in business they used to call me the dog that bites and never quits. And it's true. [0:51:17]
THERAPIST: Won't let it go huh? 
CLIENT: Yeah. Before I'd get closer to those and generally speaking it resolves and makes us closer, but it takes time, and you've got to put the time out, and most people don't want to do that. 
THERAPIST: So it would be most difficult for you to relate to people who don't want to deal with conflict who'd rather just not talk about it and sweep it under the rug?
CLIENT: Right. I can't do it.
THERAPIST: Because you think about it all the time that it's not resolved. 
CLIENT: My mother she was the most truthful person. My dad as well. If they found something... I come from a Sicilian background from Sicily. And someone would come over with a new car and he'd say what do you need that for? Wasn't the other one good enough? You're going to put yourself out in debt. His opinion, his judging, but he never hid from them what he felt. And my mother was very much the same so I got that kind of background. [0:52:24]
THERAPIST: So if she felt it she said it.
CLIENT: My mother would say to my dad that's it, you let her go because I won't have you going on with that. You're spending too much time with it. And it was always... We understood that any kind of issue was going to be resolved, and that's where I got it and now I can't be untrue to myself.
THERAPIST: So when something's unsettled you want to make it right. 
CLIENT: I don't want to make it right. I just want them to understand the way I see it in our discussion, or arguments, or differences generally speaking. [0:53:03]
THERAPIST: Okay. So that's enough for you to be able to have your say and have the person understand what it is.
CLIENT: Even if they don't understand, I don't care. I can not say what it is.
THERAPIST: And that's related to this one to be listened to and to be seen perhaps?
CLIENT: When my mother died I found myself screaming mama you never saw me. You never heard me. I was the third child of seven. My mother lost three of her children, the boys, and my older brother whom she (inaudible at 0:53:44) and could do no wrong was really a mess. And my older sister who my father idolized and my sister Mary and I were the orphans. I took care and raised my sister because she has a curvature of the spine so she was an invalid most of her life. It didn't matter what I needed or what I wanted, or when I wanted to be heard. Women first of all in the Sicilian life never talk back so my father who would always be doing things that I would confront him with was very abusive because it wasn't allowed and I would not listen to that. I had to do it. And so when I say I need to be heard, especially with my husband or my kids, I need for you to see what's important to me that we dissolve or resolve whatever. I need for you to hear me. And so I realized that as a kid... This is what these cards brought up for me. That I learned something was important, and I won't tolerate not being seen whether it was in business, or in my personal life, or in my friendships. And so I wouldn't say I'm an easy person, but you can certainly depend on me. That's it. So that's why I put that there because to me through all of this, this is what makes me who I am. [0:55:35]
THERAPIST: So one thing event will value is that you're going to tell the truth. You're going to say what it is that's on your mind, and you want people to hear that, to listen to you.
CLIENT: A lot of times I'm wrong, and it takes a lot for me to go back when I'm in conflict and (inaudible at 0:55:51). I have to go back into myself and say okay how did it do that? How could I say it differently to have made a change in the way it came back to me because I create the energy that goes and comes back out. I learned that. So when I realized that what I've done is not appropriate or fair, then I'll go back and say I need to take back what I've done. I want to apologize to you for what I've done. And it's not easy. It's taken a lot of years for me to get to where I can humble myself to my stupidity, and my mistakes, and my judgment. [0:56:32]
THERAPIST: The judgment's right. And you have written separately to be listened to be seen. Are those a little bit different to you somehow?
CLIENT: Yeah. My parents never saw me.
THERAPIST: What does it mean to be seen?
CLIENT: That I exist in your life. 
THERAPIST: That you matter?
CLIENT: Yeah. My husband is Japanese, and I'll tell you he's a teacher for me because more often than not he doesn't even see me. He's not there. He's Japanese (inaudible at 0:57:06) so I have to say to him, “Mack, I'm here.” “I need you to see that I exist.” [0:57:14]
THERAPIST: Talk to me and listen to me. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Hear me. See that I have meaning in your life. 
THERAPIST: So to matter to other people.
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: Okay, thank you. Family, in what way is family important to you?
CLIENT: What else do we have?
THERAPIST: It's that important? 
CLIENT: Yeah. It's real interesting because if I had it to do over, I would not have children. But because I was raised that a woman marries and has children, that's what her life is about. I didn't want to marry. My parents married me to the man. It was very Sicilian. My husband's chosen for you. I had to agree to it. I wouldn't marry an Italian. But to me my family, my parents, my sister, my aunts, and my cousins, they were my whole life. I didn't have a life beyond that. I don't even know a life beyond that. And then to have my own children, even though I didn't want two of them, I had four. And once I had my children what else is there? [0:58:37]
THERAPIST: So that's still true for you today?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: Family is very, very central. 
CLIENT: My family is the center of my life. And beyond that comes my husband. But my children and my family do come first. 
THERAPIST: And that turns up in all the things that you do for your family.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I sold everything that we had other than our home. I paid off our home and I distributed the rest of it by purchasing each one of my children a home and my grandchildren. That's what I did. [0:59:09]
THERAPIST: To provide for them. 
CLIENT: Well nobody ever gave me anything. I've had a seventh grade education because my father did not believe in educating women, and they don't in Italy. And this is at that time, I'm sure not it's changed, but in that era the women weren't educated. They're not important enough for them to have the sense that they could learn anything. 
THERAPIST: They weren't seen. 
CLIENT: Yeah. They were just supposed to have their children. They didn't even marry for love. They married for physical property or whatever that the daughter would be protected by giving her the right kind of a husband. So in family, for me, what else have I got next to my children, my husband, and then any friends that I've adopted as my own, which I do. Once I commit myself to my relationship to you no matter where you go, I'm going to be there for you. You're family. [1:00:07]
THERAPIST: Reliable.
CLIENT: Yeah, they are reliable. And yes I am. You can depend on that. Family is a very important part of my life.
THERAPIST: Well let's see what else you've got. Here you have fitness. You look quite fit. 
CLIENT: Oh yeah. My father also had a curvature of the spine and every time I'd walk without straight he'd poke my back. Straighten up. You need to be strong. And so my physical fitness has always been very important to me. I've been a dancer. I would 40 miles over a 30 grade every day. I'd swim three miles when I lived in Hawaii. You could swim. I did yoga. I've worked my whole yard by myself. I'm a gardener.
THERAPIST: So your whole life that's been important to you. So from the very beginning that was (inaudible at 1:01:02). To be strong to be fit. Keep yourself well. [1:01:05]
CLIENT: Well my mother was not well most of her life. She didn't take care of herself. And my sister Mary was an invalid. To me I had to be strong. I had to take care of them. I took care of my parents all their life; my sister Mary. But I knew that too this day I needed to be well. I see myself fit. I believe if I can see myself fit, then I will be fit. If I physically put in the effort, what else am I going to have but my health and my strength?
THERAPIST: In part so that you can take care of your family.
CLIENT: Exactly. They need me. I like to be needed.
THERAPIST: Yes, which is part of your purpose. 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: What else is part of your purpose?
CLIENT: Well part of my purpose in life is to bring more peace in my life for them as well as myself more comfort; the wellbeing of myself and of them, of those around me. It's important for me to succeed at what I do in this physical or work wise I'm meticulous. I mean Mack says I overdo that. [1:02:42]
THERAPIST: If I remember right you put succeeding in the least important pile. 
CLIENT: Least important.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Well it depends on what's important.
THERAPIST: Right. That's what we're talking about. So right now we're talking about purpose; being there for your family.
CLIENT: My purpose right now is to quit doing being the premier... My husband said you're the queen of the hive and I want to be the princess. [1:03:18]
THERAPIST: Step back for just a little bit, not to be unburdened.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'd just like to be a princess. I do about everything that needs to be done. I'd like to change that where I can see that others will do it instead. I mean you're doing something. I'll go in because I'll see you're doing it the way and I'll just go in there with you and I'll start doing that. Mack will say do you want to do it or do you want me to do it? So one of my purposes is to realize I don't have to. 
THERAPIST: To have an honored place but not such a responsible have to do it place huh?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Okay. Now tell me about spirituality. In what ways is that important to you? [1:04:06]
CLIENT: I think I was born knowing that there was more than our life. I strived. As a child I had an alter. I was very religious. 
THERAPIST: Very religious huh?
CLIENT: And then I realized how cruel the nuns were, how unsympathetic, and the priests, and I started questioning my whole religious world. And when I realized that that was just a trap I don't believe in God as they see it. 
THERAPIST: I don't want that kind of God.
CLIENT: No. That's not a God. To me there's just something spiritual but it has nothing to do with any of the religious factors. I believe there's possibly reincarnation, but I don't know that. So do I believe it, I don't know. [1:05:03]
THERAPIST: You sense there's something there.
CLIENT: Well if you look at the flowers, if you look at the grounds, the gardens, if you look at what nature's created, how I made a baby and gave birth to a human being, something creates everything perfect. And it isn't religion as we know it in the churches in these big buildings that look like to me aren't spiritual. 
THERAPIST: In fact the religion that you saw really repelled you. It put you off.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I don't want to be like that. I don't enjoy this.
CLIENT: When I got divorced... There's never been a divorce in my family. In my era there wasn't divorce. My friends they were church people that I had known all my life would cross the street not to talk to me because the father said I had been excommunicated from the church. My parents didn't talk to me for a year. I had no one to fall back on except someone I could trust that I would survive because this was where I was supposed to go. The direction I took was right for me. If it wasn't right, then it's the hardest thing I've ever done. After that it was easy. And then I faced the life that I didn't know anything about the American world, the business world. I had no idea. So I trusted and so I began a search. I began to read all kinds of books on different religions and psychology and just trying to find a place that I fit. And it's not the spirituality that I found. I've been to retreats and seminars, and ten day retreats, and I looked at different therapies, different ways of religion, Buddhist, Jewish, you name it, I explored all those avenues. [1:07:15]
THERAPIST: Well there's something very important for you there that doesn't seem to live in any particular religion. It lives in you.
CLIENT: I believe there's a higher something that runs our whole world. 
THERAPIST: That was quite important to you during that difficult time when everyone was shutting you out. 
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what I turned to.
THERAPIST: That's what you had left. 
CLIENT: I went to UCLA and took some spiritual classes just to find out what... It was important to me because I had nothing else. I had four babies that I was raising by myself, and I needed something to guide me. [1:08:03]
THERAPIST: It must be tied to this sense of inner peace?
CLIENT: Yeah, and I did. I found the place that I fit in myself. The inner peace that I found in my meditations through my sittings, through my teachers that came into my life, made me feel that when I needed them they came, the ones that I needed. 
THERAPIST: That gave you what you were looking for sort of the opposite of this judging world that you grew up in.
CLIENT: Well that's what they teach you. 
THERAPIST: Don't judge.
CLIENT: The teachers that I went to... I took a lot of courses, it took a lot of work, but that was my whole life. I had stickers all over the wall in my house to remind me different things that I needed to change. [1:09:03]
THERAPIST: And you're still working on those? 
CLIENT: Yep. I don't think it ever ends. In therapy my teachers say you're just peeling one layer Rosie, one layer. There's more layers. And when I talk to Mack and this change that he's made through our relationship, he keeps saying it's never enough. It's never enough. I keep telling him Mack we just peeled another piece of that onion. It makes you cry. It makes you unhappy, and whatever it does, it does do the work that we need to do to grow. So yeah my spiritual energy is very important which has brought my help because I'm going to tell you something because of that I stopped having illnesses. From the day I was born I'd always had something wrong with me. When I was little it was my throat because I couldn't talk back. When I got over that, I had a problem with my bowels, my blockage, because I couldn't. When I got done with that, then I got ulcers because I was married to a man who was an alcoholic and I had four babies and we could barely make it. He'd get drunk and lose the money, the paycheck. I ended up in the hospital hemorrhaging. I had to have surgery. So after I left and I started learning about who I am and what the world's about, my health improved. [1:10:40]
THERAPIST: That came along with all this spiritual growth. 
CLIENT: And I never got sick. 
THERAPIST: And you're still healthy.
CLIENT: Yeah. All I need to do is sleep so my brain will keep growing. 
THERAPIST: Well, let's see. Self esteem must be linked to this too in some way. 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's really important to me to feel that my self esteem is... When I agreed to live with Mack I said three things to him. Don't ever lie to me. When my inner knower asks you something that I'm feeling but I don't know what it is, don't negate my knower. Don't ever destroy my inner being. And I need for you to be willing and be open, and if you stop being willing, I'll leave. I left three times but never saying it's over. I just have to leave. You're going to have to analyze and learn what's valuable to you, and I've got to do the same. So my self esteem I've had to develop that because I didn't have any. [1:12:07]
THERAPIST: Quite the opposite growing up. Everything was wrong. Everything was...
CLIENT: I didn't have any self esteem. I really didn't know who I was or what I wanted. I married and I had children, and I was still a child that didn't know shit myself. So yeah, I did develop my self esteem with my business. Going into business forced me to work towards my self esteem because I didn't have any and you can't succeed in business with not having self esteem for yourself. 
THERAPIST: And then when I see you what I hear is autonomy too; to being on your own or worthwhile within yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what made me successful in business because when I really developed that I was successful. Of all the people in my office I became the top salesman in the area because I first of all love people. I wanted to give them what they wanted, not what made me money because that falls through. So all of that brought me to where I could succeed in what I did. [1:13:30]
THERAPIST: And the last one we have here is ecology something about the environment. What's important there? 
CLIENT: Nature is our mother and as our mother we need to take care of her. I don't waste anything. My mother when we were kids in the depression she used strings to tie the knots and she had this ball of string. Well we also went to Sicily to see my aunts and uncles and they took me to their farms. The first thing he did was pick up the dirt and say feel that Rosie. It feels like gold. It's silk. And it was. They took care of the ground because it was their mother. It nurtures you. Whatever you do affects nature, affects mother Earth as it affects our bodies. And people don't want to realize that. I mean look at the waste that they're doing in the world and how we're destroying our own mother; Mother Nature. So it's always been important because it was important to my parents as well. And not only did they have the right idea, I also felt that way. I've always been a gardener. I've always been composting before everybody knew about those things. [1:14:54]
THERAPIST: Take care of the Earth.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Prune the trees, trim the things, and fertilize them. If you're going to have a plant... I can't tell you how many plants I've saved. I see them in the garbage, or I see them lying around, and they're dying, and I go and I just pick them up, and I bring them home. People don't realize that it's important for us to take care of the Earth. 
THERAPIST: And in some ways you feel a relationship to that. You're part of that.
CLIENT: Absolutely. I do. 
THERAPIST: So there's a lot in your life. Certainly family is important to you and you've given lots of time taking care of your family. You've got a rich spiritual life that doesn't match well into the way most people do religion but very important to you, very central to who you are and a sense of relatedness there to something beyond yourself. [1:15:56]
CLIENT: I feel in all of that as well. I'm not perfect. And that's the other thing; I did not judge myself when I fail in any of this because we're not perfect human beings. That's a way for me to not judge myself because I'm so judgmental as it is of myself, first and foremost, but all of that...
THERAPIST: It's a journey towards something?
CLIENT: Always. Always. And at this point in my life I'm 84 years old I realize also I'm at the other end of the trip. I'm on my way out, and it's not a comfortable place to be in to know oh my god, I'm going to die sooner than later. I have a sister that's going in the very near future she's going to go. And it's hard to see yourself at the end of the road and not feel like I've accomplished. There's something I have to do. I don't know what it is, but I'm not done. [1:17:08]
THERAPIST: There's still something more?
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: Some other purpose?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's not quite finished. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
MODERATOR: Okay, that's a good place to stop for just a second. I'm going to keep rolling I'm just going to pull back in. Actually why don't we just all stop for a second. (inaudible at 1:17:32). 
THERAPIST: I'm trying to put all this together with what you started with which is being pulled between the responsible life you've had and wanting to be more free. That's tied down to things you have to do and maybe more time to do whatever it is that you still have to do in the time that is left to you. I like the image that you had just a while ago of moving back from the queen to the princess position to let go of reigning responsibilities in a way and still have a place of honor, still be important, still have people see you, and listen to you, care for you, and still have a meaningful role in the kingdom, but not be the one that has to do it all. It's really kind of balance between these two worlds that you presented one of which was being the queen and center of responsibility and the other was leaving behind all of that world. It seems to be something in between you're looking for. [1:18:56]
CLIENT: I am. I want to be free. As I said, I want to be free of the responsibilities that I've created so the responsibilities assumed by others so that I am free to go and come as I want to, as I wish. 
THERAPIST: To turn some of it over and let other people take some of this on. I'll let you do that. What would be the next step?
CLIENT: Well for me to make the change I need to leave.
THERAPIST: You think you have to leave; to physically go away? [1:19:35]
CLIENT: I have to leave. I had to do that three times.
THERAPIST: Okay, so just too hard to be here. You want to still hang onto the reigns and control it all.
CLIENT: It's just habit. 
THERAPIST: So time away kind of breaks the pattern and other people literally have to take over the responsibility because you're not there to do it. 
CLIENT: And they would it's just that I put myself in a position to handle it. And what I'm trying to do right now is resolve that so I can. I rented my house which was really hard for me and I came here. From here I want to tie up what I'm doing here and leave and go back. (inaudible at 1:20:27). Mack like me is a workaholic. We're both workaholics. We don't know how to play. He's from farmers, and I'm from farmers, it's the same thing. [1:20:42]
THERAPIST: So you really have to get away for a time and let go in that sense and let other people take over? And they're perfectly ready to do that. You're sense is they can handle this just fine. I just need to let go of the reigns. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And then maybe I can sleep better. Sleep is a very difficult thing for me. In fact, I'm going to see a psychiatrist about it so I can find out where the imbalance is. I need help to do that. I've realized that through my life I've had to have therapy. I feel like now I need someone to help guide me through the rights of passage and my sleep deprivation's affecting my brain. I can see that. [1:21:39]
THERAPIST: And also you suspect you might sleep better somewhere else.
CLIENT: Well I love my life, but on the other hand, I see that's all I have. I don't take trips. I don't play enough like I used to especially since I got hurt. I need to make a change, a shift, that takes me away from my usual way of life. And the reason I want to go to Italy because they know how to live, and work, and rest, and play. [1:22:14]
THERAPIST: So a perfect place?
CLIENT: They really do. I wouldn't go to my relatives because I'd take care of them too. But I want to do that because I think that I really feel that it creates a shift in me. 
THERAPIST: So when do you think you'll go?
CLIENT: As soon as I can which is probably some time this spring.
THERAPIST: You can get things tied up by then?
CLIENT: I hope so. 
THERAPIST: And you're on your way.
CLIENT: I hope so. I mean it's not impossible; I just need help to make that shift. 
THERAPIST: And you're reluctant to let go. You're describing that as one big thing. People confirmed that they're ready to step in and take over some of these responsibilities. You've been reluctant to let go and being here it's really hard to do that. [1:23:18]
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel if I don't do it now I'm going to... I fight between letting go and going downhill like my sister did or making this change and continuing with my life (inaudible at 1:23:39) and I'm tired and I can't sleep. What's the sense of all of it? Why continue? Just let go, and let yourself go, and just pass on which is what I'll do I know. 
THERAPIST: So it's really time to... 
CLIENT: That's bugged me with that. 
THERAPIST: It's really time if you want to live to do this?
CLIENT: Right. That's exactly how I feel because I know my death is in the near future whether it's a year or five years, or whatever, but that's where I am. I could just quit now, and I haven't slept for two or three days and I want to let go. [1:24:28]
THERAPIST: Yeah. So springtime?
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: That sounds exciting. 
CLIENT: Yeah. It seems like I'm running away you know? The other side of it is am I running away from my responsibilities?
THERAPIST: Well that's the message in all (inaudible at 1:24:53). You're also running towards something. 
CLIENT: Yeah, to stay alive. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh, and that's important. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: To stay where you are is to just sort of give up and that's the end. Running toward life. [1:25:12]
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 1:25:17). 
CLIENT: It's a hard choice to make. I'm leaving Lucy. Lucy teaches (inaudible at 1:25:36). Mack is willing to do whatever. He's a sweetheart. Whatever you want to do. If you want to go away, we'll just go away, but it's not that easy. 
THERAPIST: I have some sense of this is also for your family to let them take the responsibility and kind of go along with their lives, take on the role that they would naturally have if you let that go for you and your family. [1:26:15]
CLIENT: They're very responsible. They're very capable. 
THERAPIST: You're talking about Mack?
CLIENT: Yeah. But they come by it naturally. 
THERAPIST: They'll do fine.
CLIENT: Yeah. In doing these cards really opened up a lot of perceptions of who I am. Before I did the cards, I didn't have any idea. I mean I've always been strong but the cards showed me my own value. 
THERAPIST: Who you are.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Good, that was my hope that you could get in touch with that. Okay, given who I am here's where I want to go now. Well I wish you well. 
CLIENT: Thank you. 
[1:27:12]
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
