TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: ...All these were things that I said and you know they were just very - they really didn't say much. They really didn't - I had put out and they had complimented that my putting out by them wanting to put out, but then I couldn't affirm what they were saying, you see. I just couldn't say yes, you know, you've really got us right as heel (ph) and it's something I really strongly feel. What could I do? I couldn't say that. I should have hung up -
COUNSELOR: Something you'd like to say.
PATIENT: That's what I would have liked to have said. It has always been very difficult for me, more difficult than defeat, to take compliments, to take the idea that yes, I did do well, and responded adequately to those statements. I have rehearsed as many times my responses after the speech as I have the speech, because I don't know how to handle that. How do you handle somebody's response like that and affirm what they're saying and affirm them? I don't know, you know. I just - and I feel very inadequate to do that. It would be fun. I almost wish that I had gotten up and just swish, right out the door, you know, but I didn't do that honestly. Those are the types of things I - I don't know if I got it across the way I felt, but that would have been probably very nice, much like the movie that builds up to the final climax. You have the climax and it goes off and on come the theater lights, and then you're left with all these thoughts. And you can't respond to the movie; the movie is gone. Well, that isn't a very nice position for me to have been on. You really got into it, you had thoughts, but the movie is gone, I'm gone, and then - because I have a lot of difficulty taking their response. I almost feel like sometimes it's better not to turn people on if you can't handle the aftermath.
COUNSELOR: Don't do right. I keep sensing like well, okay, if I do it well here, then I'm not going to do it well here. I'm going to flub it in the aftermath if I don't flub in the beginning. [2:34]
PATIENT: Right, right. Usually I have gone away with if I had what I did, a negative sense because of those after responses. It even was true in Arizona, a much less extent, because I wasn't - you know, I wasn't - you know, I was giving a very - straight-forward professional talk.
COUNSELOR: Someone there came up to you and said boy, that was really good, and you really hit these parts strong and I like that, then what would you want to say?
PATIENT: Well, I wanted to say that, you know, that just sounds very shallow, I mean it really does. That doesn't say what it really means. What it really means to me is that you're great because you appreciated what I did up here. You didn't take it for granted. That really helps. And yes, it is an exciting thing that we're doing. We're really enjoying it. Tell me about your exciting thing. You know, are you doing something exciting. Well, if not, then there are some exciting things to be done. It's that kind of - that's what I would like to do is to be able to fire off these things so if the person felt - the person that I was talking to - felt it's vital at that moment, and I did  -
COUNSELOR: So to keep it moving.
PATIENT: To keep it moving.
COUNSELOR: Rather than have it stop, right, that's it.
PATIENT: Right, that's it. That's exactly it, not to have it stop. And that's when I saw it happen, by those actual responses it just, you know - it was nice for the moment but then it's gone.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so I think I approach it now like as somebody who cut it off and stopped it finally, responded in other ways, and might have started thinking more or started feeling more and then going out sort of alive, doing something, rather than  -
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: - going on performance. [4:56]
PATIENT: Right, right, than seeing a live performance and stopping at this. Yeah, and it's that the analogy of here works very well because having gone out there on the stage and met with those people and realized that that was a good performance, it was an excellent performance, but that was a performance, that diminished it; where, had they been genuinely interested in meeting the audience, genuinely interested, then it would have made the difference.
COUNSELOR: You know so that's not like feeling like I wanted to show genuine interest in meeting these people who came up and really having something going with them at that point.
PATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: And you felt like that was - somehow you just couldn't do it I think.
PATIENT: The thing about it is, is that it's something [lashed up] (ph). There are very few people who can do this. There's a man up at Missouri who's about 20 feet tall who has a (inaudible at 6:00). Golly, this man is incredible, and then you tell that he had - he can present a seminar that's just - he's the most outstanding I've ever seen. At an athlete seminar, the people who come up to him tend to go away with this feeling of, no matter what they're doing or what they're saying, that he affirms what they're saying and that he encourages what they're saying, and he's trying to hear. It's not like, whew, I got through with that now, I'll go back to being a person. Not at all. I mean it's just kind of 
a good feeling you get from talking to this man, and it makes your life seem better for
 -having talked to him. He does an excellent job with the professional aspects, but in a room in there it's his personality, and when he comes down off the stage he's the same personality. You realize that that wasn't just a big sham, it was a big show. It wasn't a hermetically sealed package that he delivered to you; very nicely wrapped, but still hermetically sealed. And I had the feeling that I was so hermetically sealed. [7:17]
The talk went so well, mainly the things I was saying I felt - and when the song went so God-awful poorly, that was the thing that really made me feel better about it, because if it had - as I said, if it would have been a perfect rendition of the thing, you know, it could have been recorded and then sold, it would have been different. But the mere fact that it didn't do too well from a strictly acoustical point of view, to say the least, made it even more meaningful, the fact that I wasn't that professional.
COUNSELOR: so you feel very good about how it went and not so good about, you know, the ending of it; just wasn't that good and didn't do the whole thing the way I'd like to.
PATIENT: Right. And I guess I seemed a lot more confident in being able to do the first part well, whereas I don't know how to handle the second part. I don't know if I know how to handle too well being affirmed. The affirmation seems almost a personal thing, that that experience (inaudible at 8:43) but I'm the one that's the judge, and really that's not their prerogative since I had - whether I did well or not.
COUNSELOR: Maybe they don't want to hear that.
PATIENT: Right. And basically it's because I don't know how to respond. I've never known how to respond. And I used to try - this is one of those questions that I tried to talk to my parents about, because you know I've been speaking since I was knee high or a grasshopper and they had to put a chair behind the pony so I could stand up on it. I had always wanted to go with the boys and that's why I was speaking. And I doubt that I have ever known how to really respond to where I felt good about the response. And I tried talking to my parents about it and they were - they weren't able at all to hear me so I guess you appreciate that by now, but they - we are two different wavelengths completely.
COUNSELOR: So it wasn't making sense to them.
PATIENT: I guess it wasn't making sense to them. It was either not making sense or they didn't want to hear it. Maybe they had felt the same thing; the older I grow the more I realize that it may well have been that they heard what I was saying if they had felt the same thing, and that in an effort to evade the question they put it down separate (ph). I really never have much since then tried to talk to people anymore. I've never tried to talk to people like I'm talking to you. So I've watched, boy I've really watched, and when you meet somebody like this guy from Missouri, he's 20 feet tall. I mean tall. That's one of the unique things. I mean I would probably need to be tall because being tall is almost like if you're normal, if you're natural, it makes you even taller, but being what is known as an average size, you know, you have to - that's a crazy thought. I don't even know why I'm telling you this. It's somehow that they have an advantage over us moderate or medium sized people. But you know I've watched him and he's incredibly good at this, and I look for people who have those responses. Look for people who don't change their image on and off the - their performance and everything. They're the same, that you can tell are the same, that are comfortable either way, and he obviously is very comfortable either way.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like one thing he feels is very comfortable is when people say they liked him. He thought it was good. And then he would just go on from there kind of thing, but that doesn't bother him, it doesn't get in his way, and you would think somehow maybe that triggered off something. [11:48]
PATIENT: Right. Say, do you see any correlation between what we were just talking about, (inaudible at 11:56) the idea that I hate to feel good because I know I'm going to feel crappy. Using that as an interesting correlation, I just thought about that, because there is some of that is the fact that I know when I start feeling good, when I felt good about what I had done, really good, it was very hard to - because I knew I was going to screw up again, so that's messed up. And that's something I want to be able to prove myself off of enough to be able to respond to what I'm feeling. I responded well as long as I was involved in belief] (ph), but when it came right down to the basis in each one to one, there was so many implications. I don't know whether I didn't feel like I'm capable of hearing all the things that people were saying, I don't know, and I just feel bad because my responses I know didn't apply to people who said the things they did.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 13:25). I felt I wanted to do something for them anyway, affirm them.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, because I guess I have said, you know, I've been in the other position, and like I said, it was - to me to my (inaudible at 13:49) up here incredible because you feel so good about telling me you did well, especially right now in the authority (ph), and I figured - you know, I've talked to other renowned authorities, and you go up and you say I thoroughly enjoyed that and you get the response, well, did you expect otherwise? You see, what did you expect? I'm renowned, aren't I? So there is that situation, [another than affirmable] (sp) at all. But I guess what I'm feeling is when people come up and do that, that they either are offering a part of themselves, at least I am. They're really saying something. [14:25]
COUNSELOR: And they're saying what they got somewhere and how they're feeling about it and how they're feeling about being there, and you are somehow catching a hold of that, let them know you heard it.
PATIENT: Let them know I heard it, that's exactly it. In some ways by hearing it implies, too, that it wasn't all a big show. It wasn't all some kind of act that's nicely rehearsed.
COUNSELOR: I'm switching (ph) at it because I keep hearing you say that it's very, very hard to hear - what did I hear you say - how much they liked it.
PATIENT: Why is that? It's harder for me to take compliments. I've often wondered about myself, because I often do some pretty damn devious things when things are going too well. If people are complimenting me, I find myself saying things, you know, either that are doubting me or saying things that I know I'm saying, like I have been known to say something that I'm, you know - say something really obtuse when it got too bad, like oh shit, it wasn't anything. You know, like that, that, whoosh. I'd never speak to a person again if they can't, you know - it's what you're doing, what are you doing? You say, God, I really felt something. You're expecting them to - you know, here you are. I really felt something. You're expecting them as you said this way. I heard that, I'm glad, because I know really feel something, instead of saying oh shit, you know, give me a break, and I've said that in very inopportune times, when being, you know, where it is
 -  it's one thing for me to say shit here. I feel uncomfortable saying that, but you know, I said that in situations that I feel much more uncomfortable with cussing. So that I've done things like that. [17:07]
COUNSELOR: (Almost like you're saying oh don't (inaudible at 17:13) me, don't  -
PATIENT: Right, right. It's a combination, and I just about had it in here. It seems to be a combination of the fact that if I do well, it puts something that I have to live up to as much as I can keep living up to (inaudible at 17:31). The goal idea of the fact that if you succeed, that everything's a stair step, and the stair steps are all up; that if you succeed at X, that what you succeeded there, you can't go back down, you can't fall down. It's expected that you will succeed each time or better yourself or move up another step and it will get better instead of worse, and that expectation - you know, it's not - I can't blame it on other people, it's my expectation. That expectation is the spirit. I'm waiting, much like as I mentioned the first time I (inaudible at 18:24) I'm waiting for the axe to fall for me to feel crappy again. There's something that hits for me to feel crappy again.
COUNSELOR: It's just always hanging up there.
PATIENT: It's always hanging up there.
COUNSELOR: And you've succeeded to your next step, and God, it's dangerous on the way up to the next step.
PATIENT: Right, exactly.
COUNSELOR: And then it pushed me back on me I'm really good.
PATIENT: Yeah. To tell you how destructive it can get, you know - I talked to you one time about playing baseball and the fact that I quit playing baseball and that was part of like an attitude. I was good, and as long as I was battling the negative, as long as - There was this guy when I was a senior who told me that I was going to flunk out my first year of college and I [wouldn't even make] (ph) first quarter - as long as I was battling against that, I was okay. But when I came up over the hill, there's only one place to go, and, you say, and so there always had to be another hill and there always had to be another horizon. What happens when I get to be president of the United States? What happens when I get to be president of the world? There's no place to go. And that sounds very kooky but you know, it's not - I don't envision myself being president of the world.
COUNSELOR: That feeling that I am pushing to my own destruction -
PATIENT: Um-hmm. Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: - and I'll make the top. If I keep on like this, I could make the top and then there's no place to go but the bottom.[20:03]
PATIENT: Right. And I keep getting the feeling that that's what I can't - that's the hurdle that I can't get over so that I can respond to these. That's one of the things I'm saying, that I really mean it, but please don't tell me, because then you'll ask me - then you'll expect that thing of me and the thing I can't do is be uniform, I can't be inhuman. I am human. I'm not without my full body, and will you still feel the same way when I have my frailties (ph)?
COUNSELOR: And that's the real question.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: If you take that their compliments then by saying okay, I accept that and that means I can't fail because you feel exactly the opposite of circumstance and (inaudible at 21:07).
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And aren't very likely to - you'd rather not take it.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's important that I make it. It's important that I succeed. Implicit in that is the idea that with each success, you say it as out of your heart. Like for instance I had made it through 3 years of college, made it into optometry school, made it to optometry school, made it through the service, made it through an internship. It appears that I may make it through the PhD. I may make it all the way to the exam, and I might even have a therapy about my - you know, my examination. But each one of those things means that it's harder to go and live on High Street, and in some ways it's easier to go on to law school (ph). I just have the feeling that once you start falling, you're going to fall all the way down. You know, if I missed the PhD, if I fell down there, it would be a long, long, long, long fall, and that I would exist but the ideas of happiness would be far out of my reach. I'd become very much oriented towards success again, and success would probably imply the making of lots of money. And then I made lots of money and I'd look at it and I'd say, well, what the hell is this all for?
And then if I throw all the money away and try something else - it's a crazy, destructive cycle. [23:00]
COUNSELOR: Never be satisfied.
PATIENT: Right. Right. It's a crazy kind of destruction. It's the same thing I guess I kind of, well, said about the cussing. It's the idea of the fact that if you don't quite succeed, if you show people your frailty, then at least you've shown them the whole thing. They can't expect you to be without that. They can't expect you to have a bad day. God, I never thought about all this stuff. I am really kooky. Yeah, how do I handle it? Now that I got it all out, how do I begin to pick up the pieces? How can I live and be sometimes good and sometimes not good? Man, I keep coming back to something very corny, that poem by Rudyard Kipling about "If." You know, I just - this is not applicable (ph). You know, I don't know that I could pick it all up and start all over again. Fortunately, I've haven't had to, though as I mentioned with each successive success I feel like it's more imminent.
You know, this may say something about the whole imminence of death, because the ultimate failure is death. You see, that's the ultimate over-the-top-of-the-hill. (Inaudible at 24:54) I never could tell him like that or anything, and he's going to die, he is going to die, and then where will all of his friends that he paid off and that sort of thing be? He's got to go down and realize that he was mayor of St. Louis for 12 years (inaudible at 25:18).
COUNSELOR: So that sounds almost like with death you start all over again. You go all the way down to the bottom like a clean slate kind of thing. [25:30]
PATIENT: Right. Almost - again, I don't know anything about death, but implicit is not almost starting all over. It's just being, just ending. I have nothing but nothing of a good feeling of what happens after death, and that's interesting with all the Judeo-Christian traditionalist driven into me about life after death. The Judeo part always implied that God was this great disciplinarian that acted more by punishing people than ever by rewarding them, and so if you count up all of my misdemeanors, [these haven't really been a really good co-costs, and I don't care about being co-costs] (ph) after I die.
COUNSELOR: So seeing it as an end without insult (ph0 that's just life kind of thing. But back to your problem, I could say that's the ultimate failure not to be able to live any more.
PATIENT: Right. So I think that's it in the end. Run out of illusions and run out of things that I am going to either put in oster (ph) or {I'm going to put in my way. Then we'll make myself] (ph) (inaudible at 26:55) or do I just want to say that because I've overshot my mark and potentially it is not there, you know, this thing, or I just don't have a talent for this thing. If all of those things are such that I can live with those or I can come up from those, dealing with that is death, which is not, you know - it is the final thing. Just at the time when I reach the top, then what's going to happen is I'm going to develop some kind of terminal illness, which is interesting because that's the type of destructive view I have on it. I hate to say it, because I've always claimed to be an optimist and it's a very pessimistic way of looking at things. And so what do I do with that? I don't know. Does that make sense? [27:58]
COUNSELOR: Yes. It's like - well, turns out it's like there's a constant drive of trying to overcome - anyway, trying to overcome the effects of death and the feeling process by contently trying to be something that (inaudible at 28:20). Yeah. Well, at certain times like, you know, a non-acceptance of God too.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I do not accept the fact that I'm going to die some day.
PATIENT: You think so? I just - I don't feel that so much. You may be right. In the real sense, you may be right, that I don't accept that I'm going to die. To me it's the sense that I wish I didn't have to die, that I really wish that (inaudible at 28:53).
COUNSELOR: Okay, I accept the fact, but I don't want it. I wish I didn't have to.
PATIENT: Right, and I wish I had some kind of say in it which I don't have.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're feeling very helpless as well.
PATIENT: That's exactly it.
COUNSELOR: So there's another part of it too, the part that keeps saying that it's going to come on top of my success some day, it's going to take away my success and my ending -
PATIENT: Yeah, there's definitely that. Just about the time that I'm beginning to feel good about myself, then - well, it's happened so many times, Jacquelyn. I died when I graduated from optometry school. I died right before I went into the proven (inaudible at 29:58) now. I made a tremendous success out of the internship, my internship here. I'll probably die right before I get my PhD. You know, I have these fantasies that just - just really ludicrous; like having my PhD presented at my bedside with the IV running, you know, dying of some incurable disease. There's one person - [30:28]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 30:29).
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
COUNSELOR: And I perceive I have to be punished  -
PATIENT: Right, and once upon a time like (inaudible at 30:41) really. We have this couple that we occasionally do something with, but we don't do much with them, especially with the family, because there's this real thing about the son that's about two years older than Tyler (inaudible at 30:54). He's a real - he's really intelligent, but he's really kind of crazy too, so we don't do much with Collin.
So after a movie one night we were over at their house. We were talking about our lives, and he's on the same road up. He's about three years older than I am and on the same type of ladder. And he mentioned that as a young child he always thought that he was going to die, about 30, in an airplane crash while over some war, and that was interesting because what he was saying to me is that he felt that as a child he hadn't given that up yet. He's waiting for it to happen. He realizes that he's not going to be in the Vietnam War, he's not going to be flying an airplane, but it's that same type of thing, and that's the first person I have ever heard that's talked like that. Most people say I'm afraid of death, period, before they mean when they say they're afraid of death. I'm so scared I don't want to ever say that. Yeah, okay, I am, too, that sort of thing. [32:09]
But this is the first person that ever really had the same types of fantasies, that had ever expressed the same types of fantasies to me. And if something - it's interesting because there's no way - I guess I'm beginning to realize, the more I talk to you, that there's no way that I can segregate a separate entity out of my life, whether it be sex or whether it be a relationship with people or whether it be my fear with death, and really kind of interwoven, very knolled (ph), because one of the things in my - I guess about my hang-ups with sex is if I could look at - that I want to keep proving that I did successful, and the way I'm punished is by not being allowed to prove the (inaudible at 33:14) and that's the punishment. And it feels very much like punishment so that I make it into something that intrinsically doesn't happen, and that's more of the same kind of garbage. I guess I regard it when I put it out like this, regard it as crazy talk or garbage, and yet it ain't, and that's not the way it feels. It feels very real and I'm very much a part of it. You know, I guess I wish I had some way of handling it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and these are all parts of me and I'm going to have to live with them and I may not be able to live with them.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I know what handling means in terms of controlling, managing  -
PATIENT: Accepting almost. I guess there's an element of controlling, but more of the fact that that's all right. [34:17]
COUNSELOR: Or how can we (inaudible at 34:18)
PATIENT: Yeah, and that it doesn't have any judgmental concern about it; it's okay. My idea of dying would have been to have lived a good full day. And there have been times, many times, when I have said to myself, well, if death came now I wouldn't mind, because at least today things were okay and I had a - it was a good day and I really felt good about the interactions with people and about myself.
COUNSELOR: A part of that success is (inaudible at 35:10).
PATIENT: No, because I guess that's my acceptance of death, that death may not wait for me to make a success you see; that even though it's unusual for a person to die in their 20s or 30s, that death is not going to wait around for me to kind of give the rope a jingle jangle and say, okay, I'm ready. It's going to pop up and surprise me. At any time I may have to go, and I'd like to go on a good day rather than a bad day, the day that I felt okay, I have accepted myself. I don't know. It's hard. It's really hard for me to talk about this. It's also hard because I feel a certain frustration in talking about it. It's like a privacy. It's something I'll never really get, you know. And I'd like some way to have a handle that I could grab onto and that I could hold onto and say, you know, it's all right, you know, it's all right to feel this way. And then too much I'd like to feel that it's just okay. That doesn't tell you much, it's okay, than saying much, but it's the feeling of I guess acceptance of the whole dynamics of it.
COUNSELOR: Including you. [36:55]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's sounding like the I'm okay theory.
PATIENT: It is exactly like that.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 36:56) All of this is okay.
PATIENT: Right, right. So I think I can I'm okay myself into the fact that I'm not in touch with reality. Sometimes I really wish I could get it together. I could work out so much. It really hurts me to fail with the people that I didn't want to fail with, that really hurts. And I can rationalize all I want and say when I'm human and all that sort of stuff, but it still hurts. It hurts a great deal when people come up to you and say, you know, that what you said really brought a tear to my eye, and they say something that really doesn't mean much to you.
COUNSELOR: It's hard then to say, well, I really appreciate the fact that it brought a tear to your eye, coming from you.
PATIENT: I've so conditioned myself because I couldn't make the response that I wanted to make, like thank you, and thank you, the way I say thank you. It's like I didn't hear what you said. It's because you came up to me and I'm obligated to say thank you.
COUNSELOR: You just close them out. Sounds like (inaudible at 38:45) is something that being able to say something from you at that point, like thank you, I appreciate that, would be a very simple and - it would be expressing your appreciation for (inaudible at 38:57) the fact that they did hear you. [39:01]
PATIENT: All right. I really - I guess I'm still into it because it's so engrained in me, but there is going to be a punishment and this punishment is actually not going to do anything that really makes me punished. And I just - sometimes I almost rush in to be punished.
COUNSELOR: To get it over.
PATIENT: To get it over. And I probably heap a lot more on myself than if I didn't have to do that. I'll tell you one more thing; I know it's time to go. That I guess really points that out. I never have admitted this to myself (inaudible at 40:01).
After my first year here in this PhD program, I did well in the preliminaries and did well in the beginning courses, so much so that they went ahead and accepted me with all my sufficiencies as they call them of a PhD candidate, so I registered as a candidate. Well, that was a real success, and I knew there was a punishment coming. I wanted to find out what the hooker in it was, what the punishment was.
So I went to my advisor and said I think it's time we find out what courses I'm going to have to take. They seem to be talking about my efficiencies. But the courses were going to be the punishment you think.
So I went to the head of the graduate students in the department and said I want to know what courses I'm going to have to take. He says, well, you know, there's [pay for watching] (ph) research and I really can't answer that. That's no good. I want to know what course am I going to have to - what is my - where am I going and what direction? I want to see the punishment for that assignment. Well, he couldn't handle that. Refers me to Tom Minnogne (ph), who is the task master at the punishment game. And I knew when I walked into his office that I had met the punisher. Well  -
COUNSELOR: Now you cursed yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. Tom Minnogne (ph) said I can't tell you what courses you're going to need, but I tell you what we will do. They'll have you take the GRE. There's that punishment locked in there. Now if I had not mentioned that - because ultimately, you see, the GRE was for nothing. Ultimately, I'd taken precursors (ph). [41:54]
COUNSELOR: But you had to take that one.
PATIENT: But I had to take that examination, had to - I made the punishment.
COUNSELOR: Yes, by you doing the punishment.
PATIENT: Right. I really brought that on myself. And people have implied that - even my good friends, my close friends, have implied that it was a good idea though. That's where they said, you know, maybe it's not a good idea if you push this too hard, Russell. Agh, I've got to know. And I just was saying I've got to know what the direction is, because I guess in the back of my mind I knew that there's going to be some hard work, some courses, for lack of another prerogative. I knew that, and I welcomed that incidentally. It was this idea that there's got to be a punishment somewhere and there's got to be a hooker somewhere and I'm going to find them both after this.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, (inaudible at 43:00)
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 43:01) but you're right, that's what I'm trying to say. That's exactly what I'm trying to say is that if I [enter defense] (ph), if I find out what the punishment is and go ahead and take it, then I'd like them to know, and that's crazy and I was always the one who wanted to be spanked first, but I just had to get it over with. I couldn't live with the uncertainty, and to live with the uncertainty is acceptance. After my punishment everything was okay; that I almost wanted to get punished before I got anything good. And conversely, if I'd been punished, then they couldn't punish me twice. It would have been double Jeopardy. [43:47]
So it's a sense of really having somebody coming up and surprise you, [hitching mahar] (ph). And I don't want to live like that any more. It's something that hurts me and something that takes away from that ability to really be what I want to be. I'm just looking for the punishment that makes me not enjoy my life as much, my marriage as much, my children as much. Don't you ask me about my children, because God's going to punish me by taking one of them away, and so I have to prepare myself for the day He'll take one and I'm just drawing myself against loving them too much, because if I love them too much He'll know that that's my weakness and that that's where He can get at me, and He will, and that's how He decides. You know, I understand. (Inaudible at 45:15) It makes me very (inaudible at 45:08).
COUNSELOR: It feels pretty violent (ph).
PATIENT: Oh really.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You'll have to write out a report on how to handle (inaudible at 45:21)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Jacquelyn, it helps to get it out on the paper like this, it really does. I feel much better (inaudible at 45:44) even after I punish (ph).
COUNSELOR: Well, actually I believe in that, yeah.
PATIENT: If I could just not wait to long for my (inaudible at 45:56) and let me see. I thought I was going to get started a lot faster than I did, and then what really bugs me is I knew I was going to get punished, and part of the punishment, you know I tried making the center closing part of the punishment, make that part of it. I want to make sure that part of the punishment was not going to be your rejection. See that? It's crazy, but that's the system that I'm trying - I wanted to know what the punishment was, what the kicker was in the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: Right, because you're sure there's going to be one.
PATIENT: I'm sure there's going to be one. And I guess sometimes I can always feel certain that there's going to be one because I know that the top's going to move around and the test is going to be all over. That hadn't pulled off too well, that hadn't worked too well, because basically you know, I can't really tell you why. I feel very good inside. I have that sort of feeling, a combination of relief and feeling like I'd like to cry and all that sort of - and yet I don't know. This is the first time I've really ever gotten all this out and really looked at that, and somehow I'd like not to stop. I'd like to almost have it
 -  have the recording play back the last five minutes and pick up from there.
COUNSELOR: Hold on to it.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, hold onto the feeling. I don't want to go outside, I don't want to leave, because it's the first time I've gotten that out, and it feels good to have it out and I don't want to leave and lose the feeling.
COUNSELOR: Sort of keep that feeling.
PATIENT: Right, see you later.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Give them those (inaudible at 47:59)
END TRANSCRIPT
