*TEXT-PV011108  1 August 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well I, you know, still thinking about things we were talking about yesterday and the day before, of the whole week.  Uhm, I don't know, just now I was thinking about how I keep sort of changing my feeling, or attitude, or the way I'm thinking about the remaining things in the bedroom, that I've, you know, been wondering, am I deluding  myself or not, or whatever.  And uhm, just now when I was thinking about it, I was thinking in part, what I guess I started thinking yesterday, that, or the day before, that it seemed to me, it wouldn't be unreasonable for me to, you know, continue to take care of this afterwards.  I don't know, I had had this date s, set as, you know, the 9th, as the absolute deadline to taking care of the things, and working out whatever my attitude was about them.  And, you know, just not having them around anymore.
And uhm, I don't know, I, I just realized today that I am taking care of some things that for years I've put off.  And uh, so my attitude is different, in that I'm looking at them, and throwing most of it away.  But uh, you know, for years I haven't even been able to do that.  I've always just said, well some other time I'll do it, and I've put it off, you know, in some corner.
And, and then I've started to look at some of the books that I've had, borrowed from Mrs BBF.  Essentially, I've, you know, taken them back to her, and then borrowed them again.  So I haven't had them consistently.  But in my mind I've had them consistently, from when I first saw them in, you know, her possession as books that I wanted to read.  Uhm, and that I've never gotten to, and you know.  So then the question is, do I really want to read them, and I, I don't know.  You know, because, again, I might be thinking, well there's some secret to be found.  And it was almost like too much pressure to even look at them.  And now, I don't know, I just think well, there might be something helpful, and it might be all things I already am aware of.  An so I'm much more apt, able to uhm, look at them.  (Sniff) But also I don't feel I've completely worked this out.  And I guess this is where I think i—, you know, it, I won't until I work something else out, and I don't know, again, I've had the feeling recently, that I had to have it all worked out before the 9th.
And uhm, (Sigh) you know, I was thinking about this question of what do I, you know, where is the power, or just how do I feel about it.  Or uhm, how do I feel about myself?  And, I guess I re—, I began thinking, well maybe it won't be absolutely clear to me right away.  Af—, you know, by the (Laughs) deadline that I've always thought it would be.  And, and it still does frighten me, but also it just seemed like, well I could stand it, which I hadn't felt before.
But then I had a dream last night that uhm, (Sigh) I don't know, it just seemed as if it must , you know, be precisely my feelings about this question of, am I going to be a little girl, and you know, without power, and alone, and feeling, well, depressed, and unhappy about things.  And I was trying for something that can't be.  Or, am I going to be happy with what I am?
Uhm, and, you know, I don't remember what it was I was trying to do, but I was in a church, and I belonged, somehow.  You know, I, I mean, I knew the people in the church.  I knew the minister, and I don't know, I can't recall him quite, I don't even know if it were clear in the dream, what capacity, or uhm, why I was in the church, what I was trying to do.  But I was trying to do something.
And i—, h—, the way I recall is, that there was again, a struggle of taking direction from the minister, or, you know, having to follow his orders, and then trying to do something on my own.  (Pause) And I've sort of wondered why I would be in a church.  Uhm, I don't know, you know, I first thought, well, just that that's another type of authority figure.  I don't know whether it's more than that.  It was almost as if I were trying to get out of the church, now that I think about it.  I was trying to do something to get out of the church.  And I kept getting sidetracked.  (Silence)
I know, then I was thinking of something that I came across today, when I was going through the stuff.  Uhm, because what I was going through today, was the stuff I had just suddenly discovered at the beginning of the week, left over from the time I taught at LKC, that I had hoped I had taken care of, because I hadn't found it anywhere.  Or I know I hadn't seen it around places I would have thought it would be.
And uh, in some ways it's been very easy, because it's been a lot that it's just clear to me I want to toss out.  And I'm not enjoying doing it, except I, I feel I can't just toss it out without looking at it.  And uhm, because I know how it happened to all come together.  And uhm, I don't know, it's just sort of I, a nece, necessary thing for me to do that I don't enjoy doing.  I'll be glad when it's done, but I'm not finding it so terrible, any longer.  Which is, I think, why I used to just put it off year after year, because I just couldn't face doing it.
But uh, I did come across some notes that I had, I think most of them must have been taken, on books I had read when I was taking that teaching art course.  And uhm, I don't know, I was just thinking now, because I put them aside, but they're not in a form where I could probably ever really use them.  And since I haven't used them, and hadn't even remembered them, most of the notes, any notes I took on books that are useful to me, I knew that I had them, and I've referred to them over the years.
And uhm, I was just thinking of them now.  Thinking, well, if I hadn't even remembered them, and probably, there's a lot from that course that I have remembered, and, you know, my teaching has changed quite a bit, as a result.  So maybe, in a way, I don't even need them.  But I did put them aside, not knowing quite what I wanted to do with them.  And you know, and, and then again I get this feeling, well am I saving them, because again I think there's some secret there?  And uhm — (Silence)
Well, I guess, I, I, I realize I was thinking about something.  I couldn't figure out how I got onto it.  I think I must have because I was thinking, uhm, of MSCZ's, I don't know what he sa—, I think he saved his note cards, and I don't know how long he would intend to.  But he threw away any of the drafts he did for the paper that he wrote this summer.  And so, I was thinking about how easily he found it just to throw away, you know, the draft.  And as I say, I can't recall what he did with the note cards.  And  I don't know whether he is saving them, and what for.  I mean, I don't even trust my desire to save anything, at this point.  (Sigh)
Uhm, but and then I thought of the fact that the paper has not yet been returned, and he had thought it would be returned by Monday or Tuesday of this week.  And I was just realizing, oh, and it didn't come today.  And uh, for some reason, that got me on to thinking about the CFG's, I don't know, except that MSCZ called MNO recently, to see if they could come up to PTN, at all.  And MNO had sounded interested.  But nobody's, you know, called us back to let us know.
Uhm, and so then I was just thinking about them, and wondering how things are, and my reluctance to speak to FRA, although I'm sure what I had imagined when I saw that man with the child that I thought was FHA, you know, was probably not true.  From whatever MNO said, it didn't sound like it could be true, and, or else he just doesn't know.  But I was thinking, it was very strange that FRA never called, or MNO.  Uhm, but I think I'm, i—, I must be thinking about them mainly just because I'm wondering, just what is going on.  And uh, (Sigh) you know, what are they like at this point.  It's been quite awhile since we've seen them.  (Silence)
I don't know, and then I was thinking back to that dream, and just wondering, you know, uhm, i, it was kind of strange in that I had the same kind of feeling I had the uhm, night before, of, you know, with the other dream, of not really being too distressed.  But, but clearly trying to do something that it took the whole dream and I was still trying to do when I woke up.  And uhm, in both cases, I didn't want to wake up.  This morning I, uhm, FSOZ was calling me, suddenly.  And it was earlier than we usually get up, so the alarm hadn't gone off.  So I woke up kind of suddenly, I guess.
But, (Sigh) but, I uhm, and then I was just thinking, but the whole night I was, you know, both nights I'm sure I was dreaming the whole night.  But last night, I didn't sleep as well.  As uhm, there were several times, oh, I don't know, I got up a couple of times.  And then, there was one point when I re—, I had a pain in my side, and I thought, well, this is just like, I bet this is just like when I was a child and I used to be so afraid I had appendicitis.  Because that was the first thought that came to my mind again when I had this pain in my left side, was, you know, I wonder if I have appendicitis, finally.
And I think I was thinking about i—, I don't know, you know, so—, I'd read something recently, uhm, that maybe made this come to my mind, also.  Uh, what was it, it was somebody, must have been some short article about some actress, or so—, or some, somebody in entertainment, who was suffering from appendicitis of some form.  And she thought she was just having a reaction to the director of whatever she was in.  And, so she didn't pay any attention.  And then, she collapsed, eventually with a ruptured appendix.  Uhm, and I think I'd just read that recently.  I must have read it, in fact, I read it last night, because I think I was reading the entertainment section of the KWSS last night.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   You know, even the quality of your voice, ah, sounds like eh, eh, the way I hear it, it's as though you were saying to me, Daddy, please don't send me to camp.  Mommy, please don't send me to camp.  And I think you're reexperiencing this whole conflict of being sent away, feeling rejected, feeling cast out, alone, worthless, a girl.  Because you feel that's what's going on here.  In a way, this is like the church, too.  Where you came to find some belief and magically get what you really wanted.  I, God, would answer your prayers.  But I didn't turn you into a boy.  You still hope it.  Anyway, it's casting you out again, and you're going to have to leave the church.  I think all of these things are again reflecting the way you feel about our stopping and leaving me.
PATIENT:  Yeah, eh, eh, I just realized something I hadn't paid much attention to it, I guess.  But uhm, it must be since yesterday that, at some point, I was thinking in terms of, well I guess I can stand uh, thinking about, you know, time after next Friday.  And, specifically, next year.  Because I, despite all the feelings I had about going to camp, I always made it through.  You know, which is kind of a i—, I don't know.  (Sigh) And when I hear myself say that, I think (Laughs) well, what does one have to do with the other?  Except, I guess I have been feeling this way.  (Pause)
Because I think I, you know, when I was talking yesterday about feeling fearful, I don't remember exactly what words I did, but when I think of it now, just feeling fearful over whether or not I can uhm, well, one way to put it is take care of myself on my own.  Or uhm, you know, resolve this conflict that I'm still feeling, in the direction that I want to.  Because I know, even though I can't quite do it yet, that it's the only way I can be happy i, in some form.  You know, of uhm, giving up the idea that I can get something and be something different, and uhm, or just the whole question of where power is.  And uhm, and having such a terrible feeling about myself, uhm, (Sigh) and I d—, I don't know, I just, I don't know, I just feel afraid.  I don't feel anything, you know, I don't feel any f, feeling of well, that I know I can, or anything.  I just feel afraid.  (Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, because you're reliving and remembering all those times when you were sent out unprepared, into a world that you didn't want to go to, that doesn't mean that eh, the reality is now that.  Although it's understandable that all these memories would be revived.
PATIENT:  Well, I was just thinking of something else.  A, and then I think, but what's h, happening to me, is I just keep swinging violently, back and forth, because a minute ago, I really was feeling this feeling of fear, and yesterday was, when it came to my mind, you know, it was just a horrible feeling of fear.  Then, too, and uhm, you know, it doesn't just happen here, it happens at home too.
And, and then I'll have these other periods, when I'll, (Sigh) I mean, like taking care of all this stuff that for years, I haven't been able to.  And I don't know how all this is going to be eventually resolved, but I hope it will be that, you know, I'm not saving things that are ridiculous to save, I don't know.  I'm certainly getting rid of a lot that I'd never been able to get rid of before.  But still, uhm, I don't know, maybe, I'm feeling more and more it has to be a bit more gradual than I had thought.
And uh, and then I was thinking, and I've also been able to think a bit about next fall, just in terms of I have to have certain ideas on what direction I'm going in, and you know, what I want to do with the children the first few days.  And ideas to work over with MME, and you know, not necessarily just tell him, now you do this and do that.  But I have to have some idea on the direction I'm going.
And up until very recently, I couldn't stand to think about it.  You know, I just sort of thought, well somehow by then, I'll be able to face it.  Ma—, mainly I suppose face the fact that I'll be working with him.  And that I'll be feeling so incompetent, and everything.  And recently, I've been able to face it, or think about it. You know, not face that so much, as just think, well I know I want to do this and this.  And these were decisions that I reached after the experience I had last year.
And I don't know, it just, you know, so then it made me think that maybe I can get on, off to a good start, because I really am feeling that that's essential, that, you know, it's how I get off the beginning.  Uhm, (Sigh) and uh, you know, and I, I don't know, I feel as if I can accept, well, maybe I'll make some mistakes still, or catch myself too late, but I feel better about it.  And yet still, I have this, and then I'll suddenly swing around, and uhm, (Sigh) just feel totally afraid, and just feel sure, you know, just feel completely, not sure I can't, but just completely uncertain.  Uhm, I, I guess I put it, whether or not I can take care of myself.  (Sigh, 4-minute silence)
Well, ah, uhm, I got to thinking about something that occurred today, that FMSX, the other child that FSOZ used to go up to school with, came over to play today.  And uhm, they hadn't played that much since school, maybe just a couple of times.  And, in any case, this is the first time in a long time that FMSX has come to our house when I was home.
Uhm, and I wasn't sure just how well they'd do, because FSOZ ha, had played well with FYHZ yesterday.  Uhm, but something we'd been talking about, and I was wondering whether FSOZ would just see it as something with FYHZ.  And today she soon got into her usual kind of problems, of as soon as FMSX wouldn't do exactly what she told her to do in any game they were playing, she just became beside herself.  Uhm, you know, and really hysterical.
And at one point, I got mad.  With FYHZ, what I've found works, is just to have FYHZ go do something else.  But this time, I don't know, I was kind of hoping maybe in talking it over we could all work it out, and it clearly wasn't going to.  And FSOZ began hitting FMSX.  And I just suddenly lost my temper.  And I guess I was thinking, well what does FSOZ in that state do to me?  I mean, is it just that I'm remembering how I used to feel?
Or just now, when I was thinking about it too, I was thinking about how she's just so incapable o, of uhm, you know, accepting that everything can't go her way.  And it's not that MSCZ and I let everything go her way.  And it a—, it seems like she has to learn it with every person, over again.  And has the same trouble of accepting it.  Uhm, and I don't know what it is, whether she has no ability to kind of project from one to another experience, and you know, just accept that that's the way the world is, or what.  But you know, now I'm thinking of it as, well this has been a major problem for me, to want something and not be able to give it up.  And want it despite the impossibility.  And uhm —  (3-minute silence)
Well, I, I, I guess I was thinking of, (Sigh) I don't know if you used the words, or if these are words I thought of.  But I think you used them, of you know, being cast out.  And uhm, when I do what I did today with FSOZ, I, i—, uhm, had her go into her room, and then I took care of, had FMSX do something else.  So then, I could go back and talk to FSOZ.  I didn't want FMSX there.
And uh, you know, I was thinking well, I used to be sent to my room, but I have no memory, you know, it might be false, but I have no memory of my mother ever coming in and helping me understand.  It was always sort of, when I composed myself, I came out again.  And I've always felt very strongly, I don't want to leave FSO in there alone, in a state.  Because I would rage for hours, I think in my room.  And then eventually, you know, would just tire out.  And uhm I think with the feeling of being cast out, and then, you know, with the camp experience, I always did.
And, and then I was thinking about what I must have been looking for in church, because th—, I had a point where I c—, I don't know, it seemed, I've always just thought of it, everybody who's brought up with any connection to the church, seems to have some stage when they're in the religious stage.  And I did.
But uhm, well, and th, that reminds me of a song that Dory Previn sang, the first record that came out, about a girl who finds Jesus.  And I'd always thought that was a very good song.  And I suppose, th—, you know, this might be why.  Because it was about the kind of search I was looking for, and I never found.
ANALYST:   Were you familiar with some of her other songs?
PATIENT:  I don't think other than on that record, that one record.
ANALYST:   Hmm.
PATIENT:  I think I've heard her second one, but not enough, uhm, maybe once.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   Well, I have the impression that among other things, uh, you were sort of looking for Jesus in me, or God the Father, with the Holy Ghost, all wrapped up in one.
 PATIENT:  Yeah, well, you know, I think of it just, I know it was something superhuman, anyway.  (Silence)
ANALYST:   And I don't recall your ever mentioning how you then left the church, or drifted away, or however it happened.
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm, well, you know, I, I'm sort of aware that that is not awfully clear to me, other than I did just drift away.  You know, I didn't, I guess I just began to uhm, I don't know, just somehow, the things I was believing in very intensely for awhile, I saw holes in it.  A, and yet I hadn't, (Sigh) well when I think about it now, I know I didn't really know the Bible.  So I didn't have any feeling for the, you know, beauty of it, in just, you know, as sort of myths that are beautifully told, or something like that.
And uhm, I, I me—, I think it must just be a, I was looking for something that wasn't there, and I just realized it wasn't.  And then that was all I had been looking for.  I hadn't really been looking just to believe, in you know, any kind of, you know, ordinary way, is kind of wrong to put it.  But, (Sigh) and maybe it had to do, too, with seeing the difference between my parents' lives, and then their attendance to church.  And I began to wonder about a lot of things, I don't know.  (Pause) And I'm even thinking I, I don't recall anything happening.  But uh, at some point around when just, you know, I was at the stage when I wanted to really become religious, (Laughs) look for something in the church, our church got a new minister who was very interested in the youth organizations.  And uh, most of the young people liked him.  I liked him.  And I think I must have, you know, looked to him as, you know, for something superhuman too.
Uhm, I didn't see him clearly, I know.  Because I remember being kind of shocked to hear MSCZ's impression of him when he first met him.  He never really liked him, particularly.  And uhm, you know, when I thought about it afterwards, I could see why.  It doesn't mean that I would change to completely MSCZ's view, but I d—, I think I did have an unrealistic view.  But I don't know, you know, just he didn't uhm, because I think I got, I drifted away before the end of high school, and you know, I could see why I'm, maybe why it would change when I went to college.  But I think it happened before then.
Probably when it happened, when I think about it, is right around the time when I decided to get good grades in h—, in high school.  And do well at school, which is the kind of thing my father would appreciate, especially after having done in, what was in his eyes, my parents' eyes, poorly.  Uhm — (Pause)
I don't know, I just know that, you know, today my idea of religion is entirely different than it was then.  Because I was thinking, then it seemed as if I was attempting, by association, if nothing else, to be bigger than I was, (Laughs) have something I didn't have. And now I think of it much more as uhm, you know, having a sense of something that is bigger than me.  Not, I don't think in th—, in you know, any kind of a sense of a penis either.  But just, uhm, I don't know, a different perspective of myself.  (2-minute silence)
I don't know, I sort of was thinking, but what does, you know, still, how do I stop feeling so fearful, I suppose is the way I was thinking about it.  And then I was thinking of just some more about how different my feelings are, of what I would look for in religion, or you know, uhm, I, because I know I was very upset at not knowing what purpose people had, or human beings had, and I in particular, for living.  And I felt there had to be an answer.  And I had to find it, you know, to get some kind of sense of importance, I suppose, really.  And uhm, I don't think I feel that way anymore.  (Pause)
And I guess the opposite is, that I'm feeling more and more that i—, what matters is just what I feel is important, and what I decide to do.  And so then that would suggest, well so then I don't need you as some kind of superhuman being to guide me and support me and direct me, and know all the things that I must have been looking for.  But uhm —  (Silence)
And then I think, well I'm just feeling more and more so, why do I feel fearful about leaving?  Because I'm feeling, you know, stronger about well, I can take care of myself, or I can make my own decisions, or something like that.  And then I think of those piles at home, and even though they're getting smaller, they're still things that I have, you know, and i—, I don't know, they just represent the whole wrong attitude.  And I just uh, I don't know where the, (Laughs) you know, i—, whether I've thrown out the wrong attitude, or not.
ANALYST:   Hmm, from what you describe, you're in the process at least.
PATIENT:  (Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, our time's up.
