Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: So it was my birthday.
THERAPIST: Happy birthday.
CLIENT: I'm 41. I'm sure you have that in the chart somewhere.
THERAPIST: I do, I only look at the chart a little bit, but yeah I do. (laughs)
CLIENT: And it's feeling really crappy, really, I mean I, Friday was a really bad day because I was doing some work and, working on, planned on getting into some of the tax stuff and catching up and I just trying to pull out the deeds for a title examination and I got to a point where it was like really complicated and I'm really trying to focus and Jess calls me and she's in fucking tears. And she's like, "We just got a letter from the attorney, you know, we have 30 days and they're foreclosing on the house." We've gotten this letter like five times.
THERAPIST: Oh, ok.
CLIENT: And I'm trying to tell her that and she's like, "Can you call the bank?" I'm like I don't have the number, I don't have the extension for my guy, and this is a 30 minute commitment when you do this stuff. I just didn't, they're going to have nothing to tell me. So she begs over and over and over again and I finally just scream at her, I don't have the fucking number and she hangs up on me. And she e-mails me the, you know whatever, don't scream at me. And I kind of e-mail her back saying all the different, you know I call them and I don't have the extensions of my guy and they keep referring me to the foreclosure line which you enter in your loan number, social security and it kicks me out and says, it hangs up on me. So I, you know 20 minutes doing that. So I e-mailed her saying (telephone rings at 00:02:23) letting her know that I did call them. You know telling her all these different reasons why I'm stressed out, you know. And just, just don't ever ask me about the modification again because I'm, you know sick of it. And she's always asking what's going on with the modification.
And really I was, I'd ordered lunch and I just, I just couldn't do work anymore. I pretty much just went home and, you know had soccer practice. At soccer practice Ian was being just his usual pain in the ass self, not listening to what I say, you know moving stuff around. This one girl falls down and he goes to the bag and pulls out the first aid kit and I'm like Ian stop, Ian stop, Ian stop, stop, stop and he won't stop. And every time I'm getting upset with him I look over and his mom's just gabbing over on the sidelines, blah blah blah, not paying any attention.
[00:03:27] So, the plan was instead of him sleeping over, was that I was going to have dinner because she wanted to give him a bath because he was in the grass and he may have ticks, you know. So she's freaking out about ticks again.
THERAPIST: In the grass in Plymouth?
CLIENT: Yeah, so over at Field and Square. And so we got back there and she's kind of getting the baby out of the car and I say, you know you're son is the worst behaved son at soccer practice. Can you start paying attention? You know, I can't coach and she doesn't even answer me. And Ian started trying to argue with me, he's like, "I don't misbehave," I'm like buddy I'm not going to argue with you. You misbehave." And so, you know, we, we had dinner and I was you know stressed out. We had the soccer game on Saturday morning and he actually behaved himself pretty well.
[00:04:33] But, they were going to an Easter egg hunt. So, you know I basically just around all day all stressed out, you know and just, you know climbing the walls practically and took the dog on a long walk, but that was about it. And Sunday I wake up and I was thinking, oh Monday being my birthday maybe, I know they have a present for me, you know. And so I kind of texted her and, you know, she was like, "We're going out to dinner." And they're going out to dinner the same place they were at Saturday. It's like she can't even sort of fit it, you know an opportunity to see the kids. She spends all at her friend Erica's house.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which she spends, she's been going an awful lot recently. And (pause) I figure, it probably, because I've got to get my present or whatever it is, that I could go over there Monday before they go to bed and I go to [inaudible]. And I was just in such bad shape yesterday that I went to the office and actually met with someone from E&G; first. Went to the office, did the bare minimum of what I had to do and I was just, you know, I mean, I'm just so anxious. You know, I went home and I called her up and I was like, you know, like, I kept getting pissed off because when I'm on the phone or doing, it's like I'm always being interrupted by phone calls or something else to or, it's just adding up with me. I'm just getting pissed off. It's like, you know, it's kind of hard for me to explain, but I'm just yelling at the phone, just give me, I'm in the middle of doing something, stop ringing. Just, you know, when I'm driving in the car and I've got nothing to do nobody calls me. But as soon as I sit down in the office and I'm trying to start doing stuff, phone call after phone call after phone call, you know. And plus I've got all the people who are calling me since Friday that I've got to call back, you know.
[00:06:53] So I drive home, my dad calls me to tell me that, you know, he was going to Asia with my stepmom and that his back was so, his back was so bad in London that they turned around and came home. He didn't mention that, you know happy birthday. So I know my dad forgot it was my birthday. So dad forgets it's my birthday and, just to know what's going on. And Jess of course calls me in the middle of calling him and, you know, I finally was like I can't go tonight, I'm not, I'm not up for it. Just can't deal with it. I'll just go over. So I went over there. You know, the only, when I walked in the door Lucille was like kind of around the table and she me and kind of came toddling over and went like that. So for a few brief, hour and a half, you know I felt better, but you know I got home last night and I was back to being anxious.
[00:08:01] I was like thinking that it was nice to have that brief moment, you know, when I wake up today and I'm just like, and I don't even know what it is. It's like, you know it's part that you know I'm nervous about the money. I'm nervous about the IRS. You know, I just have to give a talk tomorrow that I haven't even thought about. Just, I don't know, I'm, I'm all over the place. And you know, I kept, I kept, you have the whole, whole day tomorrow, this was yesterday, to get stuff done and I'm just thinking today, what do I got to do? And if I've got to do some tax stuff, I've got to get more tax stuff over to my CPA who someone called me that I haven't sent in my $400 retainer which I don't have. You know, not going to my taxes because, you know, I've sent her so much business, you know, and she's got one of her lackeys calling me.
THERAPIST: The CPA?
CLIENT: Yeah, telling me I haven't sent in my $400, I've never sent them a retainer before. So I've got to deal with that. I just (sighs), it just, it just seems to be getting worse and worse. And you know, I had a brief moment, you know we had a brief Seder over at Tracy's Saturday night and I was with [Gene] (ph) and I still had not really talked to Jess. I was, you know, since Friday other than telling her she needs to watch her kid's soccer practice. But, you know as we're driving out there she's saying what a pain in the ass this is, you know, going out to the Seder and that she's not doing it again.
[00:09:59] And, you know it's the same distance as going to her parent's house or you know, I think part of it is the time, she doesn't like it being late, but it's just like, you know, it's just you know she said to afterwards, "that food was the worst food she's ever had." And like, it wasn't that bad. And she just, she's so bitter and you know goes into it with such a bad attitude that nothing that happens is going to make her happy, you know. So it's like the one Jewish thing I do a year, trying to get Ian involved in and...
THERAPIST: She didn't back it.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it's like fucking Easter bunny this, egg roll that and my son's asking me what the Easter bunny brought me, you know. And it's like the one thing that I try to get the kid to do that's Jewish and she's just fucking shitting all over it, you know. And I don't know, I just have this constant feeling of, you know, where am I? And what am I supposed to be doing? And how did I get here?
[00:11:14] And, you know, I mean literally I just spent all day Sunday except for walking the dog maybe once or twice. I tried going to Target; they were closed. I'm just cooped up inside just watching TV, playing poker on the phone, just you know being completely, and you know I can't, I don't have a work space at home. I don't, the place is a fucking mess. It's a wreck. There's just shit everywhere and there's you know there's fucking down everywhere from my comforter and I just, I can't deal with any of it. I really can't, you know.
[00:12:04] And, you know, to Jess I'm some asshole because I scream at her when she's crying, when she's just, you know, just has not clue of where I'm at and what I may have been doing when she called, you know And she completely fucking ruined my day. I was just incapable of doing anything for the rest of day. You know, I just went home and waited until soccer practice. You know, well I went and had my lunch and just, you know, and, there's no point in me trying, I can't defend myself when I scream and yell. It's like I'm the only person in the world who screams and yells. Yeah go fucking find someone else to live with who's not going to yell at you. Good luck. You know, the way you treat people, you know, find someone who's going to put up with your bullshit, you know? I mean her, her parents, they scream and yell at each other. Her brother and sister-in-law scream and yell at each other, you know the whole family screams and yells at each other. She's off limits, you know. She's had a bad relationship where he used to fucking yell at her all time so I'm the one who, you know, the once in a while that I blow off steam and fucking snap on her, you know, I'm the asshole, you know. (pause) And my birthday present was just basically the same birthday present she gave me two or three years ago except back then it was a frame all of Ian and this time it was a frame of Ian and Lucille, you know. You get them at CVS or whatever.
[00:13:59] I just, I mean I guess it's thoughtful or whatever, but, you know. I intentionally stopped showing my birthday on Facebook because I get all these insincere happy birthdays that people, I don't know how much you're into Facebook, but you know on someone's birthday it tells you it's someone's birthday and it gives you their birthday so people just click in "happy birthday, hope you're having a good birthday," you know. And it's either that or no one calls me on my birthday. And my brother called and my mom called, my dad forgot and that was basically it. My grandma e-mailed me, you know. My uncle posted on Sunday, you know, "happy birthday, have a happy birthday tomorrow." But outside of that I don't have a single friend who knows it's my birthday. You know, nothing, nothing and I just, I don't, I keep trying to not go on Facebook because it's just, it's just mindless bullshit, you know. I'm signed up for some of these different, it's not just for your friends but for different pages and I'm signed up for some stuff and it's all just the people who do the political bullshit, you know. And I'm, it's all, no one, no one ever, you know, most of the people of friends with are liberal. No one ever says anything political, but it's always the conservative people who've got something to bitch and moan about. You know, it's just, it's to the point that I just want to stop them showing up, you know, whenever they say anything because it's, it's annoying.
[00:16:07] It's just, I, Facebook is not, you know, it's supposed to be happy and social and you know, and I even said that to Jess and Tracy's daughter at Passover. I'm like, you know Facebook is just to me, it's fake. I post pictures on it for my family, but you know it's just people being fake. You know, they're all, everybody's happy and, you know, no I see people who put sad stuff and it's like yeah ok, my dog died or, but people don't really, I can't go on there and bitch and moan about how bad my time is or how shitty my life is. I can't do that on Facebook. I'm sure there are other people who are in the same boat I'm in that can't put that on Facebook, you know. (pause) I can't stop myself from, you know I've got so much free time of just trying to just distract myself, you know. (long pause) I don't know. (long pause) (sighs)
THERAPIST: I can imagine all of this. You get like (pause) kind of frustrated with me. I mean do you feel like you're getting through to me with all of this stuff? About what things are like? [00:18:28]
CLIENT: I don't know. I haven't really thought about it. (long pause) Yeah, I don't know exactly what we're doing in here, but you know it gives me a chance to spit it all out. (pause)
THERAPIST: You don't feel like it doesn't just stay kind of bottled up inside where it is a lot of the time?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Yeah. You know just that to take it out of the dog. The dog will just start barking at people for no reason whatsoever because he hears their keys jingle or it's just, you know, so I take it out on him, you know. I just get, my frustrations with him, but I just, you know, playing some game on the phone, you know, poker or something and I'll just take, I'll scream and yell about something, you know, the TV's not working right. Like last night channel 4 was just stuck on a picture of Judge Judy freeze framed. What the fuck is this, you know? And it's like, not that I really am, you know, into watching these shows, but that's what I do Monday nights is I watch channel 4 and it's fucking Judge Judy so I'm watching like the Dick van Dyke show and Bob Newhart and all these other, you know.
[00:20:27] Bob Newhart's a psychologist. So it's, you know, (pause) he was worried about raising his rates $5. His group revolted on him. And they realized that [they needed him] (ph). So, one lady was a grocery cashier who couldn't afford it so he raised it on everybody but her. They were completely blown away by their $60 plumbing bill.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: I don't know when that show was from, 50's, 60's. Maybe even the 70's, I don't know. (sighs) I don't know, I just feel like, I thought by now that things would be better, improving, or you know, I feel like I'm more anxious than ever, you know, more alone than ever, sadder than ever, I'm just (pause). I want to get help and get bailed out by my parents; it's just like, it's not even enough. It's not (pause), they had, the IRS has a hold on my collections until April 6th and that's why I was going to do my IRS shit on Friday. I didn't do it. I'm like, do it over the weekend. I didn't do it over the weekend. It just can't bring myself to do some of this shit and so it's like I've got, that was one of the problems yesterday. It's like I've just, I went to bed early on Sunday night, you know, like I got plenty of sleep, probably too much sleep. And I just have no energy, no motivation. You would think that the anxiety or, you know, the deadlines of this stuff would you know, give me some sort of kick in the ass to get stuff done.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe it's, maybe it's, I think it's the opposite. I think the anxiety and frustration make it more overwhelming. You know, past a certain point those things don't help you get into gear. They hang you up. It seems like that's more of what's going on. [00:23:41]
CLIENT: (long pause) I totally missed what you said.
THERAPIST: How does that happen? That, that happens a lot.
CLIENT: I'm distracted, thinking about something else. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I don't, I think there's something more complicated going on here than that you're simply venting. You present it as if you're venting and it kind of sounds that way, but I think it's a little more complicated than that because usually when a person vents they're like done venting or they've done some amount of venting and it gives them a little more space to think and feel things. I don't think that's, I'm not so sure that happens for you. I mean you certainly throw a bunch of stuff out there and you know it's really strongly felt in the way that venting is really strongly felt, you know. Are you still with me?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: I'm with you.
THERAPIST: But, (sighs) I think there's more going on than just that. I think (pause), well here's a thought. Maybe you're object in venting the way you do is to keep anybody else around from being able to think any more than you can.
CLIENT: I don't understand that. [00:26:27]
THERAPIST: Like maybe your point is to like try to get me to know so much what it's like to be in the middle of all this shit and I don't know what the fuck to do with it either. Like (long pause) I think at some level you kind of don't want me to be able to think about it either. You just want me to go, "holy shit." (gagging sound), you know like.
CLIENT: I don't know what I want you to do, you know. I just, I'm...
THERAPIST: I don't think you're kind of consciously planning this, but I think you get very envious...
CLIENT: I've kind of accepted that, you know that this is how it is and I'm just, my only option is to, you know wait it out, you know. It seems like that's the only thing I can do. You know, like there's nothing proactive I can do in my life to change any of this, you know, because I don't even have the energy of motivation to be proactive to change any of this. Even if I did I wouldn't know what to do. You know it's like I've been stuck in this rut for so long that I don't even know how to get out of the rut. And it, it permeates every aspect of my life. There's not a single thing that, you know is positive other than the brief moment last night where, you know I had some, you know moment of not worrying about everything in the world, you know. But as soon as I leave I'm right back to where...
THERAPIST: Where you were. Something I've been thinking recently is (long pause), you know maybe there's more of this than psychological and has been clear. I mean your circumstances are extremely difficult and they've been extremely difficult for a while. There's no question about that, very stressful, very overwhelming, incredible frustrating, very upsetting, you know. The finances, the, you know, work situation, you know the separation is a little more complicated there, but it's difficult. I'm not questioning any of that, but (long pause) that doesn't exactly add up to this. I mean for someone (pause), I know we've basically talked about that when you're feeling better like and can apply your intelligence and your resourcefulness, like you can make things happen to improve your situation and I don't think you have access to those capacities because of, let's say, your anxiety and depression, right? Which would be hard in any case; I'm not disputing that at all. But, you have been quite paralyzed clearly. You know, things, it's not been flat; you're not nearly able to work or operate at kind of your capacity. And it kind of easy and maybe we've been, I think we have been, including me, kind of too complacent in thinking about your anxiety and depression as kind of merely biological factors that have paralyzed your ability to think and work and sort of try to find a way out of this. You know, however slow, torturous, whatever, are you still with me? [00:32:09]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And, so I've been trying to find another way or other ways to start to think about this. Like, you know, what are the, what are kind of the psychological dynamics going on here? You know, what can we gather from a closer reading of how you're acting, what you're doing, how you're interacting with the people around? (pause) So to find another way to understand like, how and why you're so paralyzed. And the easiest way to understand with you is to look at what is going on in the room here. You know, how you are with, what you seem to want, how you act, and so forth. But, a lot of which is kind of unconscious, but can be informative. So, and it will probably sound a little weird to you that I talk about it, so let me forewarn you about that, but I think it may be that you are (long pause), [inaudible at 00:33:57] maybe so (long pause) enraging for you for that anybody else, I'm thinking mostly of me and Jess at the moment, has the capacity to think, to feel things, to like have some room to maneuver, that you kind of in an unconscious way want to act to shut that down. It's like, you know if the kid next door gets a toy that you wanted and you break it because you so wanted it and so didn't get it. So like, you're on the phone with Jess the other day and she's like coming out about the modification and you need to do this and you can't do that and she's all upset and I know that based on what you told me, but like. And what you said about it was she's driving you nuts, that she's going ballistic over something you've gone over five times before and there's nothing you can do anything about. But I'm pretty clear about that.
CLIENT: I felt, my actual feeling was to send her any e-mail, I'm done; let them take the fucking house. You know, let's get it over with, you know. I can't take it anymore. Yeah it's going to upend people in your life, but I can't fucking take it anymore. [00:35:42]
THERAPIST: Right. So I think, I think there is an aspect of that to do with just not being about to stand her thinking about it, her wanting something, her being upset. And you just sort of want to, I think not just shut her out, but shut her down. (pause) I think it's like you want to, and again, kind of in a converse way, like tell her give up, tell her to abandon all hope, and to stop thinking about it, and to stop worrying about it because when she does those things it's just too much for you. Like, you kind of can't handle her in a way having a mind of her own on it because it's too much. So, I think what you then, you're move is to like try to trash that and say like, "forget all about it, let them take the house," you know. I, I am you know sometimes like you and what you want and how you think about this and whatever might be in [inaudible], like doesn't exist, like you're dead to me, like it doesn't exist anymore. (long pause) And I think you do that, I think that may be related to when you don't hear something that's said. Like... (long pause) What do you think about any of this? Like I said, it probably sounds kind of weird to you. [00:38:12]
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I don't really know what to make of it.
THERAPIST: What crosses your head? What reactions do you have?
CLIENT: I don't know. Just (pause) to me it's just like with the IRS, I'm accepting that they're going to freeze my accounts and I'm just to the point where I've given up. You know, and I just (pause), you know her crying and being upset about not, you know, not going to be able to live in the house that, you know, I don't want to hear that. I don't care. You know, I just, I mean to me it's so insignificant to what's going on in my life, you know.
THERAPIST: I think, I think you do care because I think you can't bear to hear it. You know what I mean? Like if you didn't care it would be like wa-wa-wa, but it isn't like that. You know, you've got to slam the phone down or you've got to tell her to stop fucking thinking about it. Or let them take the fucking house. Do you know what I mean? That's not quite not caring. That's actually caring a lot and not, I think what it is, is not being able to handle how she cares. (long pause) Yeah. I'm not blaming you for that. I'm not saying you did something wrong, I just, not caring is a much more easygoing state. See what I mean? (long pause) And I think that a lot of it comes down to envy of what she's got that you don't. I think that gets unbearable very fast. (long pause) As far as, when you say you don't care anymore and you're like (pause), is there anything you want to say about that? [00:40:56]
CLIENT: I just don't see anything in my circumstances that's going to improve anytime in the near future to where I'm going to be able to, you know, pay the IRS or deal with the modification or pay my own fucking rent once the short sale goes through. Just everything there's just constant reminders everywhere about this, you know. I mean foreclosures everywhere, you know, rentals are everywhere, you know it's like I'm constantly being bombarded with all the problems in my life and there are no solutions. There are no, you know, I mean no one is giving me advice that is helping me, you know. I'm literally sitting there watching everything crumble around me. You know, E&G; is the perfect example. You know, that's the one thing that has really kept me afloat and I'm just sitting here watching it fall apart, you know. And it feels like there's nothing I can do about it. And even if by some miracle, I have a visitor day on Thursday that visitors actually show up and we get some people to join the group, that's still not going to be enough. You know, I just, it's not going to help me in the way that I need help. I'm like, I feel so far behind where I need to be that it's just, you know, I mean, it's like I want to give up and I don't even know how I haven't given up, you know. I'm just not sure why, but yesterday I gave up. I just can't do any more work, I've just got to go home, I just can't deal with it. And that's going to happen at some point today where I'm going to make some phone calls and do a little bit of work and then I'm just going to be like [inaudible at 00:43:20]. You know, I can't (long pause) I don't know. Just, every time I take my medicine it's a reminder of this (pause).
THERAPIST: The thing is, things I don't understand I suspect both of us don't understand, so that is how this is working. Let me explain. I, I am clear about how everything is a reminder. You know, like whether it's work you can't do or money, you know things that come, it must happen a hundred times a day that something comes up that requires money that you don't have, right? That's the kind of thing you're talking about right? So, here's what doesn't make sense to me, yet. How come it's painful to hear [inaudible at 00:44:41] a hundred times when you know it's true? (pause)
CLIENT: Because I forget about it for periods of time so I, you know, it's not, I'm not thinking...
THERAPIST: I don't think it's that far from your mind. It never seems that far from you. I don't think you walk around and have moments where you're like, "I have enough money and things are going great."<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: No, I know, but there are times that I don't worry about or I'm not anxious about it. And then something happens, you know.
THERAPIST: So it's not just that, it's not having the money. It's sort of the whole package, not having the money, how work is going, what's the, worrying about the future or the despair about the future is more accurate. And like that's what gets kind of...?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: I don't know, it's more than that, you know. I mean there's so much, there are so many problems that I can't possibly focus on all of them at once. You know, I just can't, it's, it's too, it's almost like there's too much for me to grasp that it just kind of cycles through, you know. Now I'm worrying about this being alone. Now I'm worrying about I'm not going to be able to afford the apartment. Now I'm worrying about I'm not going to be able to afford my expenses at work. Now I'm worried about E&amp;G.; You know, now I'm worried about, you know...
THERAPIST: I see. So there's not having enough money, but there's like the 500 implications of that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which matters, who's in the house, who's in the apartment, losing more business, you know the care breaking down, the dog breaking down, all sorts of things. [00:46:34]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (long pause), and (pause)...
CLIENT: I just feel like I have no support. You know nothing to fall back on. Nothing to, you know, it's like even the fucking dog cage, you know, it's like there's money in my account to buy the cage, but I knew I was going to have to pay my rent at the office.
THERAPIST: Well a big part of it is that if you don't have yourself back on, I mean I, I, look, I'm not saying you do have much to fall back on, you don't. I'm not disagreeing with you about that. But, I think a big piece of that that gets left out is also the way that you don't have yourself to fall back on either. That your capacities are so dished, like, you know, like that. You're a very smart guy, you like, I think when you're doing better you can be pretty good at making things happen business wise. I mean in addition to being smart, you're good at that and also, like socially, building things up socially. I don't think you can make use of any of that because of your state of mind. I think, it seems to me like that's something, you know, we can't fix or really work on the real estate market. You know what I mean? Or what Jess's going to do. But, (pause) it does seem to me that the thing we can do about being able to make use of your own like package that, you know, [inaudible at 00:48:57] or may not, I think they'll help, but I think it's a big part of the problem that we don't have to look at so much. I mean it's not like you're making a secret of it, I mean, like you just said. You know, I'll go home instead of work at some point it will be too much and I'll probably stop. But, I, probably there's more to understand about that in a way that would be helpful. (long pause)
CLIENT: Like what? (long pause) [inaudible]
THERAPIST: [inaudible] A different time on Friday right?
CLIENT: Yeah. 12:30.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[End of TRANSCRIPT]
END TRANSCRIPT
