Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Released and all of that.
COUNSELOR: I think what (inaudible - 0:00:03.3).
PATIENT: But otherwise somebody needs that.
COUNSELOR: Not necessarily, September 7th, Session 7 on TO. No, what we use them for is, there is some specific research done, sometimes they're kept on file because they are used for research at some later time. And we use them for consultation among the staff.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Like if I'm, if I want somebody else's advice or help.
PATIENT: And you play them (inaudible - 0:00:28.7).
COUNSELOR: Then I'll (inaudible - 0:00:30.0) with the tape or whatever.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. And do you have regular hours when you get together and you say listen to this and this?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, we haven't been, we haven't set up much like that over the summer, with the movement and with everybody being on vacation -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - (inaudible - 0:00:46.9).
PATIENT: Oh, I have an interesting practical mundane problem to discuss at this point. And it's kind of interesting because I think it goes, well, my reactions to it are of interest at least to me. I (inaudible - 0:01:09.6), the reason why I took my vacation at this particular time was to avoid the possibility of approaching a social fiasco as a result of my various difficulty.
COUNSELOR: Now translates.
PATIENT: Translation is that -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:01:25.1).
PATIENT: - there are two parties, Friday and Saturday.
COUNSELOR: Of this week?
PATIENT: Right. And I am without resources for -
COUNSELOR: You are without a date?
PATIENT:  - a date, yeah. If you want to put it that way, I much prefer the fact (inaudible - 0:01:41.9), but, so. And I was involved and so panicking running around seeing what if anything I can do because I simply haven't (inaudible - 0:01:52.2) but all summer, no longer. And so I thought it was going to be really humiliating if I have to back out of two of these things one when I'm at work. They're both going to have work in one way or another. One is a direct function of work where it's a company holiday of sorts, golf outing, picnic after you golf and so on.
And the other one is a party that my mother is having at a club for all of her a big benefit, cancer (inaudible - 0:02:22.8) thing, millions of people much to do. And so she, of course, insist that I go to it because she is somehow involved and the whole family is in fact going. There are other people that are business associates of mine potentially and actually that were going to go. And I made arrangements about a month ago (inaudible - 0:02:41.2) everything will be the feature.
Only I thought a month would give me enough time to dig someone up. Well, it didn't, so I thought what I better do is to take a vacation for this period of a week which will allow me then to gracefully say that I flew to Guadalajara for the weekend and it was my one and only chance so I could back out. It was a ruse that I thought would be more plausible if I were on vacation and out of the office.
COUNSELOR: So it kind of hurt.
PATIENT: And so I, and then I discovered that, I think I told you this, one of my friend's girlfriend's and I had a little flirtation and I discovered that she had broken up with him. And so I think before I really knew that, I don't remember the exact chronology, I decided to try and call her cousin with whom I had a nice time once who was suppose to be living in Indianapolis and invite her down for this weekend. (inaudible - 0:03:43.2) we got along very well. I think I told you something about that story. And so I called her and it turns out her cousin (inaudible - 0:03:54.2) Trenton or something and not available.
So I instantly thought, of course, well, I'll try and see if there isn't some clever way that I can ask her our and just trying to feel the air when I'm talking with her to see what, what potential reaction would be. And so meanwhile the time flicked down until it's this weekend. My friend's father then dies.
COUNSELOR: Well, what happened during the conversation?
PATIENT: Well, nothing. I just said well where's Jess and she said well Jess is not, I said what's Jess' telephone number in Indianapolis and she said well Jess is not in Indianapolis. Jess went back to Trenton. I said oh that's too bad because I wanted to invite her down for the weekend. I called her, this is last week sometime.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But then you said you were going to feel her off whether or not you could go with her.
PATIENT: Well, I was just talking with her, I wanted to see what, how responsive she was and I thought that it sounded pretty good. Only then we, I thought well I'll let it go by and she finally said listen this boy that she use to go out with George, who is a good friend of mine, father at that time was sick and now has died and they had his funeral today. And so she said listen if anything further happens with George's father let me know because I'm too embarrassed to call him myself because we broke up, which seemed to me to be something in the way of (inaudible - 0:05:12.7) which I thought was fine. And so I thought that I would do that. Well, then she called me Saturday and told me in fact he died that George had called her and it turns out that the father died, expected to. And so I thought, meanwhile my mind is racing a mile a minute whether the appropriate kinds of things I can do to see if I can ask her to this party. I would like to go out with her and it would solve -
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
PATIENT: - kind (inaudible - 0:05:46.7) and take her out to this specific party. And she ought to enjoy it, it would be her type of thing. And so she called and said he died and then she said call me back and let me know where the funeral is going to be. And again I thought this is a great (inaudible - 0:06:07.7) because she can read it in the Death Notices, she's certainly aware of that, which is all I did, I didn't have the guts when I was talking to him to ask him all the particulars. And so I said I would do that and then we went the next step further and I called her back and said well here's where it is and she said where is that and I made a long, made it sound much more involved then it is, and said well why don't you come down to my apartment and I'll give you a ride (inaudible - 0:06:32.2), if you want to ride up there.
So we did that today, this morning. And I was between, being torn with the thought that it's inappropriate to ask her out for a party at the funeral of her former boyfriend. And between the fact that we (inaudible - 0:06:54.3) was a third party, another friend of mine, to whom she all of a sudden became much more responsive then she was to me laughing and giggling like mad at his various witticisms and starting to talk to me about Jess again which I didn't want to hear about any more, I became very upset and I became more and more upset with my own reaction to the entire thing and I could feel the same old syndrome going on, the tightening up where I didn't feel I could really talk  -
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: - awkward and did a lot of, it wasn't grotesque by any means  -
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: - but it was just a (inaudible - 0:07:32.3) good performance in this instance where I'm trying to interest her in myself.
COUNSELOR: It was subtle in terms of their reactions  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - but you knew how it hurt inside.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, I felt I was going through the same thing and I became angry with myself as I recognized it of seeing myself being rejected again, you see, in favor of this other fellow. And I became very sensitive to a lot of things that were going on and this caused me to shut up and not say anything. And then a lot of things did go on where I thought well maybe she really is putting me off at this point using this as a tool to put me off because she knew that I was on the verge I suppose of asking her out and that she had no conception of this weekend or anything because she doesn't know anything about that. So my friend who is driving the car, they sat in the front seat, and he is a very funny fellow, he is a very witty guy in certain (inaudible - 0:08:31.1). And so they were finally joshing about marvelously and she was doing little things putting his hand on his shoulder and I was going into a jealous rage.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:08:39.0)?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I thought oh for god sakes here it is all over again. And then I ... those things get to the point where when I'm speaking with someone then I find I can't even get words out of my mouth, words stumble and crumble in my mouth and it gets worse and worse and worse.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Back to the cocoon. And so the whole thing really kind of stirred me up today and I did nothing all day to do but think about it, and call my office because I find that I'm involved in a bad situation there having gotten so drunk that I was ... Thursday night that I wasn't able to go work Friday, having told them quite specifically that I would be in Friday because it was my last day before work just to touch all the bases, clear the decks because I the key man or something was going to be gone and I just didn't show and I called up at noon and said I wouldn't be in and all that. So I called the office then after I got back from the funeral and talked to my, the guy who (inaudible - 0:09:40.5), to whom I owe service and (inaudible - 0:09:49.4) and check with him and he was kind of cool and made no reference to the fact that I wasn't there Friday at all. He didn't say anything about it at all and I didn't say anything about it.
COUNSELOR: What did you feel like during then?
PATIENT: Well, I felt like, I can see that scene is going to turn bad on me, so. They have already hired another guy and their style of how I think is just one fine day they're going to say look Ted, I don't think we can use you any more, why don't you look around for another job, we have give you six weeks, a month. And that would definitely happen if I didn't have these several opportunities on the line. They may think well because some of these are going it's fine we'll keep him on. But if those don't pan out this is what the kind of things that could happen. So I recognized that I'm engineering this on myself I think I'm engineering that myself, I mean because it's completely ludicrous, just bad behavior in a concrete behavior  -
COUNSELOR: If you want your job ...
PATIENT: - is wrong because I don't want to blow that if I blow that it's a marvelous opportunity for me and I don't want to blow it in one way. In other way I intend on doing it, it appears because I get myself, well I just sit there and get drunk so I don't wait up in the mornings. I just get drunk enough so I don't wake up, get home at midnight but I'm out to the world and I wake up at 10, I'm totally hung over and I think oh I'm not going to go to work like this. And then I call up around whenever I bring myself not show up and bring myself around and call the office and say well look I won't be in and a little mumbo, jumbo on the phone, hope that that covers it. But they know what's going on, the fact that George made no comment about it today is indicative of that I mean for a normal casual kind of thing he would have said well by the way what happened Friday I thought you were going to, but there wasn't a word.
COUNSELOR: The silence  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - is becoming a little bit overbearing?
PATIENT: Yeah. And so ...
COUNSELOR: And you've engineered the silence to some degree?
PATIENT: Yeah, I really have, I feel badly about what I'm doing to this guy particularly because it's an embarrassment to him I think in a certain way and that is very strong, but it is embarrassing because he brought me on and it's just not good for him to have a guy that he brought alone turn out to be a (inaudible - 0:11:57.5), and somebody that they ultimately had to let go. So, those were some things that happened today that disturbed me.
What really disturbed me though is the incident with this girl and this friend of mine and my reaction to it was just intense jealousy and dislike. But, it's very funny because I could see certain things that they were saying and I think I probably advancing paranoia or something but I could see certain things that they were saying that I thought they were keying on in order for her to use this as a put down to me sort of in someway and they were very small things and it might sound like nitpicking and maybe I just want to say them out loud to see how they sound to me now.
But for example there were some ... oh my friend, my friend is a great, this is the fellow that I drink quite a bit with, and he is also a great womanizer, to use his word, and he has a conception of himself as being a boozing Irishman that gets deals done but (inaudible - 0:13:04.1) and all that. And he goes out with a lot of girls and he's quite successful with them, he goes out with them. So he was making some references to that, that last night he had a lot to drink and he said he saw some girl and he was going back into his apartment and he saw some girl coming out, coming down the stairs and he asked her out for a nightcap at midnight and they went out and had a nightcap and then he made some jocular references to having her up to the room and she was, she was smiling and laughing and all that. And with me at this point I was just thinking bull, I just get totally freaked when that happened. And  -
COUNSELOR: How come that hurt so much?
PATIENT: Well, when this conversation was going on between the two of them because I feel like, she, this girl is a little bit of my history, she knows about the woman (inaudible - 0:13:53.0), sounds like the title of a movie but she knows about that. And she knows that I don't go out, I made in a certain way a mistake by calling her about Jess who I hadn't seen since June and saying now can Jess put me on really need help and I need, this is what sort of stuck in her head. So then this conversation was going on between the two of them and she was laughing and making various remarks. And then on the way back, this was going to the church, on the way back there was some more conversation about (inaudible - 0:14:32.6) amorous activities and I didn't come up tight at this point and I think that she or people recognize that, I mean if somebody looks at me and laughs and like, I can't respond.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:14:43.5).
PATIENT: I can't, it's totally unnatural for me (inaudible - 0:14:46.7), because I become very sensitive to it. And
COUNSELOR: And hurt?
PATIENT: Yeah, right. I feel like my secret is out or I've got to be very careful or everybody will know and they'll laugh at me and god it will be horrible, if I don't make just the right response so I would rather make no response at all. Any (inaudible - 0:15:03.8) on my part as a come back I'm sure would not go over, so I just don't do anything especially with these people. Well, let me finish so then coming, on the way back, she began to talk about this woman on the ninth floor saying are you still seeing her and ho, ho, ho, it was really pretty, it was a little rough, for me anyway.
COUNSELOR: How was that real?
PATIENT: Well, it made me feel like an utter fool and that she was laughing at me. That was my reaction the whole  -
COUNSELOR: How did she get (inaudible - 0:15:40.4)?
PATIENT: Well, after her, I by the way, she sat in the front seat with Fitzy on the way down and I promptly sat myself in the front seat on the way back. I did that deliberately maybe it shows how far gone I am. But I wanted to bring the backseat so she wasn't going to, they weren't going to be able to sit there talking back and forth and I look out the window and make an occasion stray remark and sad, super sad thing.
COUNSELOR: You know, another thing would have been to offer her the door and sit in back with you too.
PATIENT: Well, I didn't want to do that. She was kind of sensitive, it was funny because we had coffee after, breakfast after the funeral and we came in and sat down and she said well where, I just kind of marched in and sat down without offering the lady a chair I just, it seemed natural to sit down and she hesitated for a moment and said well, where should I sit, like with you or with Jim and I just looked blank and she sat down over there and Fitzy sat down next to me, and I noticed I'm very small. But it just shows you that she was aware  -
COUNSELOR: It was something that you were concerned about.
PATIENT: - something was going on, she was aware of it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but look also how you helped bring that one on.
PATIENT: I was stupid by not, you mean to say I should have said which one?
COUNSELOR: Well, if you had wanted her to sit by you, you could have offered her a seat.
PATIENT: I didn't want to make a big deal of it. She made the big deal of it.
COUNSELOR: That wouldn't have been a big deal though.
PATIENT: Well, I didn't even think of it to tell you the truth.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, I'm bringing it up  -
PATIENT: (inaudible - 0:17:07.2).
COUNSELOR: - to you.
PATIENT: I know, I know.
COUNSELOR: As just a possibility in the future. I mean that's a casual way  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - socially  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - to get into that, get what you want.
PATIENT: Yeah, right I agree with you, I really do.
COUNSELOR: On a very small scale.
PATIENT: Right, right. And that was analogous to my sitting in the front on the way back. But the situation was very awkward because I felt peculiar, her having seen (inaudible - 0:17:35.2), George walking up the aisle, she was crying, walking up the aisle in back of his father's casket and when he even looked over there a little tick in his eye, he looked over and he winched, he looked over and he saw the three of us standing there and I think he was looking at her (inaudible - 0:17:53.8). This is a nice shine for him and she was really broke up with him and. So I mean that made me feel very funny, like I'm dancing on the grave or a very odd, awkward scene. And what was particularly disturbing after I thought I saw some response, and this is on her part earlier.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:18:18.9)?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know  -
COUNSELOR: Felt like you made some ground only to  -
PATIENT: Yeah, like.
COUNSELOR: - lose it.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, right, right. It disturbed me that, and it also disturbed me the intense reaction I have to whole situation, it really did bug me. My own feeling after having gone through it all was that I'm an incompetent fool and she's probably aware of it. I didn't say anything very clever or funny or anything, awkward I just felt like a national drip. So, I don't know, so that's the entire affair I think today might be blown out of proportion but it seems someway.
COUNSELOR: Well, it certainly sounds like ...
PATIENT: Went through a normal syndrome.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: A normal ...
COUNSELOR: That's your story.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's right. Sort of, I don't, I just don't know why I get that involved in it. You see before I found it easier to talk with her because I'm not on the line when she was with someone else or she was with Fitzy I was not on the line and I wouldn't have to commit anything I could just dart in and dart out and not feel if there was anything on the line, but when there's something on the line like that I just blow my cool.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, in your whole thing with women I hear two different levels. One of wanting to make a good, one of one to make it with a woman  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - but I don't hear that so much as I hear the second thing which is wanting other people to know that you make it with women. Of wanting the prestige of (inaudible - 0:20:07.6).
PATIENT: Right, that's right.
COUNSELOR: And that concerns you more then the former, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, more intense and demonstrating it rather then anything else. Yeah, that might be, that might be.
COUNSELOR: Well, look, look at it, is that true or isn't it?
PATIENT: Well, I don't want to say it is because I don't want it to be.
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: Why not? I don't want it to be that way, it shouldn't be that way.
COUNSELOR: It shouldn't be that way, but how is it?
PATIENT: It might be  -
COUNSELOR: But how is it?
PATIENT: - very specifically like that. Rather where is a badge, rather then even having very much more to it then that. That may be the case I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Do you think that ...
PATIENT: I don't know  -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:21:07.9).
PATIENT: - what kind of a game by puzzling over that especially.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. I think you've puzzled over it enough. But I'm also seeing that it's hard for you to admit that that is what it is.
PATIENT: Well, I do, it's not an attractive character trait I think.
COUNSELOR: No it's not, it's not.
PATIENT: To want to just have them as a trophy, you don't think that's not attractive?
COUNSELOR: I don't think that's attractive no.
PATIENT: I say it's unattractive.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's unattractive, I would rather not admit to it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, okay. But I think you're going to get a lot further in therapy  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - and a lot further with yourself period if you admit where you are rather then  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - pretending it ain't so.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I think you have a lot more, I know you have a lot more power to change it or do something constructive about it once you have recognized  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - okay, what is the problem where does it stand?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And that's why I want you to admit that.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And then we can move on from there and do something about it. But it's like the whole problem so far has been kind of deals it over  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: - so we don't know which of those problems we're dealing with, it's women  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - yeah, but which problem with women  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - and the possibility of a real relationship with one woman or (inaudible - 0:22:30.0) in your expertise and womanizing.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Well, right it would be a much more ... I think though that most people come and this is speculation.
COUNSELOR: I don't want you to talk about those people.
PATIENT: I suspect, however, I'm going to say it any of that, I suspect that most people who come to real relations through inadvertence as it were. A fellow in high school that stumbles upon  -
COUNSELOR: Okay. This is just  -
PATIENT: - is not looking for a deep relationship with anybody, he wants to get laid, that's about it.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And he wants to tell everybody he got laid.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. That may be true, but I don't think that kind of thinking of what most people do is the way for you to get what you want, it just isn't a very ...
PATIENT: It doesn't work too well as far as ...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what do you want right now?
PATIENT: Well, I want to avoid this kind of social catastrophe at all costs and I don't want to go to the party. I can get out of the other Friday night party with Rebecca, but the Saturday night one that my family is involved in is much more difficult. See the thing is that all of these arrangements are being made and I'm going to have to say well I can't go I don't have a date, you will have to make excuses for me and it's going to become a (inaudible - 0:23:58.0), telephone calls, change the table (inaudible - 0:24:03.7) and that. It makes my mother maybe finally insist that I just go with no one at all, just so I can see what she has (inaudible - 0:24:11.0).
COUNSELOR: Which is even more painful?
PATIENT: Oh god it would be horrible, it would be horrible I mean talk about wanting to prove something that would be proving precisely what I don't want to, what I want to conceal for all to see, it would be horribly embarrassing. So I want to avoid it at all costs if I can.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's going to have real consequences too apart from just how I think about myself and what I think others think of me in certain ways because they're going to be some people here from the office and this is going to have something to do with my reputation with them. So this is another a negative possibility that relates to work.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So I mean it has real, a very concrete immediate concerns with me as well as in more general ones.
COUNSELOR: Well, they both are pretty immediate. When you mean immediate disgrace with your family or and the immediate getting further out of it  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - or out of touch with your business contacts.
PATIENT: Right. So that's what I want to do right now, but I don't know that will have to be resolved on a different plane.
COUNSELOR: On a different what?
PATIENT: I don't know what to do about this girl either.
COUNSELOR: I feel for you, I feel for you and one of my impulses was to think of somebody that you could take. Really, I mean I really feel sorry for you but on another level that's not what you're here for.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You're here to get able to do those things yourself and able to live with the consequences of what you do.
PATIENT: Well, what I would really like to do though is figure out what to do about that particular girl and what to do about my particular reaction to it.
COUNSELOR: What particular girl?
PATIENT: The one today.
COUNSELOR: Jess?
PATIENT: No, the girl's name is Susan, her cousin's name is Jess.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But.
COUNSELOR: Well, what do you want to do about Susan?
PATIENT: Well, (inaudible - 0:26:31.3) from this weekend I could still call her up and ask her out. One of the problems is I always hate to, since I maybe because I do think of it as a trophy kind of situation and an ego thing rather then anything else I hate to put myself in a position of even really asking her out, because I'm so grossly insecure I think that's a threatening situation for me. And I can just envision her politely saying no I've got something else to do and then at that point I am declared and that's it. Now that sounds, that would sound really foolish in a case of someone that, if I was asking a girl that didn't know me very well out it would just be much more casual thing, well I can't go (inaudible - 0:27:14.9) you dial again so she thinks. But in this case it isn't because she's a little bit familiar with the, in some ways, I don't know exactly.
COUNSELOR: A little bit familiar with you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it feels like it would be a bigger rejection?
PATIENT: Right, right. She's a very, possible and plausible girl too. I mean I don't ...
COUNSELOR: She's a very what?
PATIENT: She's a very plausible girl for me in terms of her personality and background.
COUNSELOR: And plausible you mean that that relationship might work?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: She's the kind of girl that you would like.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Because she's pretty much from a certain kind of background, she has been through a bad thing herself and have to know that she had a baby and she kind of gave it up and she's from a very Irish type family, went through all this, so she has been through a little something herself. So if she's not, she can't be entirely a superficial person as a result of all that. So I feel if I were to take her out and to work on her a little bit I might get to the point where there could be some kind of an opening up.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Without being too worried that she would just be blowed off because she was interested in, very quickly (inaudible - 0:28:30.1). So I suppose what I should do is just bite the bullet over the weekend.
COUNSELOR: What does that mean?
PATIENT: Well, just do whatever I have to do  -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:28:44.2).
PATIENT: - the party, go to the party stag or not go to it or be a big scene and not go to the party or (inaudible - 0:28:50.1) for the weekend or do some damn thing that whatever I have to do to get through that. And then call her up again and see what happens. I was so disturbed by her reaction.
COUNSELOR: I can see where if I were someone that was halfway interested in you, you confuse the hell out of me in terms of what you're saying and what you mean and what you want. And it would be very difficult for a girl to indicate any interest in you either because again you're giving them that brush off  -
PATIENT: Brush off?
COUNSELOR: - I just bet you dollars to donuts that you're giving her half a, well you were this morning with the sitting down (inaudible - 0:29:35.3). And then quick sitting in the front seat, you're brushing her off right there.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And she might be surprised to find out that you really are interested after that because I mean you've got those mixed behavior syndrome.
PATIENT: Well, what about all that giggly school girl behavior she had going on with my (inaudible - 0:29:57.2?
COUNSELOR: Well, what can you tell? What do you know for sure? You're assuming that that means lots of things about you (inaudible - 0:30:07.9)?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Well, if you're wearing rejecting black that's probably what you're going to see.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I mean you think in terms of rejection or acceptance (inaudible - 0:30:19.4) and are continually fear of getting rejected. Well, if you're thinking about rejection all the time then you see something out there and you don't have your eyes on these big colors you may see that blue thing and think rejection instead of colors, you know, which just may have been giggly school girl have fun on the way down, you were assuming (inaudible - 0:30:39.4), that was the way to have fun, you know, rejection. But, I mean you're looking for rejection it seems like constantly and giving it off.
PATIENT: Well.
COUNSELOR: So, it's not that surprising that the world happens that way to you because you're looking for it.
CLIENT: Well, that might be. It's a very simple way to say of all of the things that are going on in my head at the time. I can see it probably, probably true.
COUNSELOR: Where are you at now?
PATIENT: Well, I'm thinking if that's true then it's on my part a simple, it's another negative thing I mean it's just simply a failure of courage to take any kind of a stand at all.
COUNSELOR: But see that doesn't have to be such an ultimately bad thing. Again, okay that's what you were doing there, you could move that another way by saying oh that's what I'm doing thanks I've got it corrected and then I'll have it.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: You could say that. I mean maybe that isn't altogether correct but that would help a lot.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: If you could work on that one thing.
PATIENT: Well, I don't, I know that would be great but I don't feel that way.
COUNSELOR: You don't feel that it would be great  -
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: - if you did or you don't feel like doing it?
PATIENT: No, I feel that would be great if it were that easy but I don't feel like that's, it isn't that easy. I see what you mean, I can see why you would be impatient because of the continually terms in which I speak of myself and I can see how you, how I could have constructed this entire thing to some entire episode to suit myself. But see I certainly didn't feel that way about her when she was actually going out with Neil.
COUNSELOR: You didn't feel what way about her?
PATIENT: I didn't feel concerned about the rejection and I felt that she was coming on to strong and I think George felt that way too as a matter of fact, that she was responding to me too much.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I have no idea.
COUNSELOR: So what are you saying to me right now? What are you getting out?
PATIENT: Well, I'm saying that maybe, I'm saying I'm just a little bit maybe dubious of the theory that I'm wearing rejecting glasses.
COUNSELOR: Well, look at yourself right now. You're wearing rejecting glasses in the fact that I can't see your eyes, it's very difficult to see  -
PATIENT: I don't understand, it's my movie star bit. But you see what I mean the thing is that I didn't feel rejecting about myself when she was going out with Neil, I can't see good. When she was going out with Neil, so I was able to have a nice spontaneous relationship.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah. And I know, and I know you don't wear rejecting glasses at those times because it's not a big deal for you then.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You're not on stage in terms of being accepted or rejected and she is somebody else's girl.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: We've gone through that part of it.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: But that we know that intends to, that's the most relaxed time in the world.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: In fact it would be probably be easier on some level for you psychologically, not morally  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh, that's right.
COUNSELOR: - psychologically would be easier for you to have an affair with somebody else's wife.
PATIENT: Uh-huh, exactly, exactly.
COUNSELOR: But that isn't the way, that isn't the way or your moral Catholic thing would give you all kinds of hang ups and that isn't achieving what you want to achieve anyway.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: You can't form somebody else's life very easily.
PATIENT: Well, is it time for theory of what, what plausible reason would there be for doing this? I mean it's one thing to say that this might be the case that I'm looking for situations in which I can be rejected and I can come here and tell you how I was rejected or tell myself how I was rejected or something. That might be what I'm involved in doing there, but involved in work getting myself found out at work. I don't know if this is your bag (inaudible - 0:35:54.6), the question naturally occurs to me why am I involved in all that situations?
COUNSELOR: I really don't think that that's your, that isn't a helpful question for you.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: We could sit here and discuss that for 20 years and you still may be in the rejected thing. I don't think that's the perfect most helpful way for you to get out of it, because we couldn't discuss the theory ... the theory and experience are two different things. Okay, one way to get experience a little bit faster would be to say how did you feel when I was throwing this whole thing at you? Were you feeling rejected by me a little bit?
PATIENT: Oh yeah, I think so a little bit, another patient outburst.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and you looked rejected, you really did, I mean you were kind of hunched over a little bit and looking out the window.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I felt like I, I felt it very important that I say something  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - to make you understand that I wasn't rejected you  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - to get you back out of that. And I want you to know I'm not rejecting you, I'm trying to help you through that thing. And gee I know the rejecting thing good because I've often had very, something very similar. People can say ten things to me and one thing sounds the least little bit negative and I jump on that and decide that they have got no good.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: You know, that they're critical of me.
PATIENT: And what do you do to get yourself out of it? You just think, you just recognize it yourself and then you decide to ignore it or come on maybe even stronger?
COUNSELOR: Well, one think that I have done with it is check off people who are really rejecting your knowledge.
PATIENT: (inaudible - 0:37:56.1)? I mean do you ask questions?
COUNSELOR: Well, like one thing that you could do with Susan is just call her up and ask her out. That would be one way to find out.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, right. Well, I'm going to just do that (inaudible - 0:38:13.9). The think about doing that is it is going to be such enormous trauma for me if she says no dice.
COUNSELOR: Why? You won't be going otherwise, were you?
PATIENT: It's going to make me feel very awkward that's all.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And to the extent that it is an ego game I don't want to and to the extent that she knows a little something about me I don't want to put myself on the line in that way. I don't want to (inaudible - 0:38:52.5).
COUNSELOR: If you don't put yourself on the line in that way, you are never going to get what you want out of that situation.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: You can't go out with her without asking her.
PATIENT: Well, right. She can always call me though. Why doesn't she call me?
COUNSELOR: You could sit around 20 years waiting for that one too.
PATIENT: I think I could. Yeah, well the difficulty with me in this whole entire thing is I think I, I see what you're saying and I agree with it but when you're actually in the situation it's one thing to see it happening and recognizing it and it's another thing to overcome it.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: In real safe things or something or do something.
COUNSELOR: It's difficult to get out of your immobilization?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And get to what you feel.
PATIENT: It's very difficult  -
COUNSELOR: Paralyzed.
PATIENT: I feel it's a very dangerous situation for me. I feel that I would be so, I feel I'm getting signals that I'm (inaudible - 0:40:14.9) in some way. And so it would be suicide for me to take the next step because I'm so convinced that it's almost self-preservation on my part not to get involved. And this is reinforced by natural (inaudible - 0:40:32.8), not just theoretical constructing.
COUNSELOR: With her?
PATIENT: No, with other females.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And with other people.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So it's the kind of thing that I am and that I really felt very badly afterward, after this happened.
COUNSELOR: You know what it reminds me ...
PATIENT: But I agree I don't know whether I'm rejecting her or she's rejecting me, I might be rejecting her as far as that goes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm going to be a little bit philosophical but part of life is people saying no. Of your saying hey would you like to do so and so, no.
PATIENT: I am (inaudible - 0:41:11.9)  -
COUNSELOR: Of such and such job.
PATIENT: - and completely aware of that aspect of life.
COUNSELOR: No, no.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But it's painful and hell for you.
PATIENT: Yes, it is.
COUNSELOR: And I suggest that you get some real experience ...
PATIENT: I've had some real experiences  -
COUNSELOR: But I think you need more.
PATIENT: - that people have said no to.
COUNSELOR: I think you  -
PATIENT: I think you do.
COUNSELOR: - no, I really seriously do. In fact we might consider having one session here where you think of 40 different things that you would like and I'll say no to them. I've very serious.
PATIENT: I don't understand that at all.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I don't.
COUNSELOR: What I'm saying is you have got to get to the point where no doesn't hurt too much and it does now because a lot of people are going to say no.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And if you just quit asking because people say no  -
PATIENT: Which is my theory at the moment, right.
COUNSELOR: - you're not going to get what you want. You are just going to be more and more hurt by the fact that somebody said no. It reminds me of when I was one year, one summer between different years, my sophomore and junior year in college I had a terrible time getting a job and I had to go literally hundreds of people and ask  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - do you need anybody? No, no, no, no, no. And that got so painful but I finally got to the point where okay most people don't need, nobody, most people don't need me to work for them, right?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I just have to find out who those people are and sort through them and not get hurt by that and I'll, because that's the only way I can find out who does need it. So, I finally went through that process and then I finally got to the one yes or the two yeses and in the hundreds and took my pick of the jobs but I wouldn't have had a job unless I kept pounding at it.
PATIENT: Yeah, one doesn't do that with their entire (inaudible - 0:43:00.4).
COUNSELOR: One does it with a hell of a lot of things in life.
PATIENT: Between sophomore and junior year in college you're not putting anything on the line except you want some money for the summer so.
COUNSELOR: That's what a hell of a lot to you then, to mean then.
PATIENT: The money is but it has no reflection on your personality.
COUNSELOR: It felt like it did.
PATIENT: Did it? Well.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What you're doing right you're putting that down and say well that's a nice little story but it's not true for me. It feels more ...
PATIENT: No, I the thing that I talk, see the trouble is I can see the plausibility of what you say but it's not line forming. I mean I can see it as a, I can see that this would be your response to someone like me but in an abstract term because really the only response that you can constructively give but it just assumes that, it isn't a line forming somehow.
COUNSELOR: What is a line forming? I bet you it's not much of anything is a line forming. I mean that's part of what you're doing with the rejection isn't it?
PATIENT: (inaudible - 0:44:34.0).
COUNSELOR: You're alive right now. What are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: Depressed, mainly depressed. I'm really annoyed at (inaudible - 0:44:47.4).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:44:48.0)
PATIENT: With life generally I mean.
COUNSELOR: You're very annoyed at what? I don't want to talk about life in general right now.
PATIENT: I'm annoyed at my own reaction to life in general as it is so preposterous and stupid then I'm such a I really feel like I'm a, I really feel like an incredible jerk that I'm not able to do the simplest things that are so easy for a lot of people, are totally baffling for me and difficult. I think I must have the emotional equipment of a 12 year old in order to get myself involved in this kind of a thing. It's very depressing to realize that. I mean I recognize the absurdity in certain way of my response to the situation today. I feel sorry for myself in a certain level (inaudible - 0:45:44.1).
COUNSELOR: And that's a lot of your feelings.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's a big part of what you feel like.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah, that could be.
COUNSELOR: That could be or it is?
PATIENT: Well, it is.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Self-pity is a very large part of my feelings about myself.
COUNSELOR: See my feeling about what you're doing, one of the very concrete things that you're doing is cutting yourself from your own feelings, your own (inaudible - 0:46:19.3) by saying that could be that happens to most people, you maybe I  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: - all of those, these are ways of cutting yourself off so you don't even know what your feelings are a lot of the times because your experiences with your feelings have been painful probably and that's part of it. But my perception of one of the big things that you can get out of being here is exploring your feelings, really exploring or finding out what those are.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Getting more comfortable with them. Getting to be more of the master of them.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: You know feeling what they are and being able to do something about them. And give signals kind of take temperatures on your life or your feelings, look at what your feelings are about things. And then say okay what do I want to do about that?
PATIENT: Well, I think that you're right in the thing about the self-pity being a major component of my, about myself, and the fact I suppose one of the reasons why I came here is because I recognized, I think I recognized that and (inaudible - 0:47:41.9).
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, uh-huh.
PATIENT: But a way of trying to get out of that. You know in certain ways so  -
COUNSELOR: Wait a second, wait a second. You're doing it right now in terms of distancing yourself from what I just said. What was your response to the thing that I just said about taking a temperature in your life of your feelings? And the thing that you do with distance to yourself.
PATIENT: I think you're right that I distance myself from all those things.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I appreciate the fact that you answered them directly and that's the way (inaudible - 0:48:15.2).
PATIENT: Well, then we'll elaborate that I because I had thought earlier that I was becoming sort of emotional numb and I thought that maybe one of the, one of the positive aspects of these things is precisely what you were saying. In order to for example recognize that I experience feeling or resentment at certain times (inaudible - 0:48:36.1), I did today. I think in someway previously I wouldn't have used the word jealousy, I was jealous of what was going on, jealous of her.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I was surprised that you
PATIENT: (inaudible - 0:48:49.7).
COUNSELOR: I was surprised and glad that you used that word.
PATIENT: So at least I was able to do that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, really you're able to do a lot of things. You're not a hopeless.
PATIENT: Yeah, well good I'm glad to hear you say that too because I was, that's exactly what I was feeling I thought earlier today when I went through all that I said that I thought to myself that the situation is utterly hopeless, I'm absolutely incapacitated before the thing that I expected to do in my and I can't do them. So I'm going to try in someway (inaudible - 0:49:30.6) see myself off and.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible - 0:49:33.8).
PATIENT: Yeah. And that in fact would be the next response that I would say, I mean in a realistic way I just wouldn't see that many people, I would just sort of live there and probably punish myself for it by getting myself fired. Well, maybe I'll get a (inaudible - 0:50:00.8).
COUNSELOR: I think that would be great if you do that. I also hope she doesn't, she may.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Then what (inaudible - 0:50:29.3).
PATIENT: I don't know, I hope she doesn't and leave it at that.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. But I want you to not I want you to try somebody else if she doesn't. I'm not saying try somebody  -
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: - this weekend but that's a great way to get over rejection on some level. Are you uncomfortable right now?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm uncomfortable because I'm embarrassed that this display of my gross incompetence I mean the thing is so elementary and the fact that I have to be sitting here in this beautiful in a certain way, I hope you don't mind me saying this?
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: Talking about it.
COUNSELOR: That's okay.
PATIENT: Is embarrassing to me and uncomfortable when I think about it a certain line, another line of experience (inaudible - 0:51:26.2).
COUNSELOR: So those are kind of two feelings that you fight about coming here?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I could run away entirely from it and make me more comfortable on one level is just to, I just kind of live my own life and work it through the best I can.
COUNSELOR: So that's part ...
PATIENT: In certain ways humiliation.
COUNSELOR: It's hard to have even one person, me, see the way you feel?
PATIENT: Yeah, because in a certain right. In a certain way I feel like it is all sort of trivial.
COUNSELOR: It's not trivial to me.
CLIENT: Well, okay.
COUNSELOR: What does that mean to you? You want to get out okay. I hear you, I hear you.
PATIENT: It's 7:30.
COUNSELOR: But do you hear me when I say it's not trivial to me?
PATIENT: Yeah and I appreciate that.
COUNSELOR: What does that do?
PATIENT: It makes me uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: And the best thing to do when you're uncomfortable is to leave, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: Well, I have an assignment for you. Would you sit here another minute?
CLIENT: I will sit here another minute.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Because the uncomfortableness will go away if you sit here too and  -
PATIENT: I feel absolutely like analyst, this is grossly uncomfortable situation for me. Playing with my last box.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I hear you. I realize, I realize it's uncomfortable. Maybe I've been particularly hard on you tonight.
PATIENT: You're a toughie.
COUNSELOR: Is that the way you feel?
PATIENT: No, I don't know I'm at the verge of getting very upset.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'll let you, you can go.
CLIENT: So I think it would be nice just to down and eat some chicken soup.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, I think we've done a lot of work tonight but I just think once you leave right that instant you were.
PATIENT: No I appreciate it.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay. (inaudible - 0:53:25.8).
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: (inaudible - 0:53:27.8).
COUNSELOR: See you next week.
PATIENT: Yes ma'am.
COUNSELOR: Hope things go good.
PATIENT: Yeah, well I'll let you know what happens with her.
COUNSELOR: Okay, you do that. I mean that.
END TRANSCRIPT
