TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Twentieth interview. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I've come to realize that, even though, that I'm having, somewhat difficult, may change my future, it's not doing much for the immediate present. I think the problems are still there. It really depressed me, the last couple of days. 
COUNSELOR: To realize how little things have changed because of the... [0:00:36.8]
PATIENT: No, just little problems, because they're not the fact that-
COUNSELOR: Not that fact that they were still there at this time. Like they do at (inaudible at 0:00:44.8).
PATIENT: Yeah, mm-hm. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:00:47.0)
PATIENT: Yeah. But I guess-yeah, after, after I left Monday, I kept on thinking, about, you know possible ways. Like, that people might end counseling. Stop seeing a therapist. I don't know, I just think you have some more things that (ph) of saying, "Okay, don't need to talk any more after the things that... but okay, today's the last day."
COUNSELOR: You mean you can't feel someone couldn't-could be able to decide that? 
PATIENT: Yeah. Sort of. 
COUNSELOR: Like how could someone be that sure? [0:01:44.4]
PATIENT: Yeah. I was just thinking of how easy they make it because ever since about halfway through I've just sort of been, aware that you know I wouldn't have to think about that. Because it's always done for me. I don't know, I just wonder how someone does it. How come all of a sudden, he decides he doesn't need to talk anymore or something. And if it's gradual, how do you know, when your time is. How do you know when to put a foot forward. 
COUNSELOR: I mean, are you asking me, or are you just wondering out loud?
PATIENT: Oh no, I'm wondering. Maybe asking, you know. I'm just kind of curious. Aside from, you know, something even weirder or something like that. You know it just goes on pretty much until, time runs out. I just want them to have some insight all of a sudden. I feel, that much better or something. [0:03:17.0]
COUNSELOR: True. Well, I mean in my experience. Several of the clients that have left me have left because they've gone to California. Too many in a row (ph). They'd been planning to go to California in time and they - and you know, that was the end of therapy. Kind of like-like it's happened for you. 
PATIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: Another thing that-when it's been positive and different, sometimes I have gradual and a lot of talking about wondering, "Is this real?", keeping on kind of checking. Kind of deciding, when maybe something else happened with them. And after a while kind of saying, "Well, they aren't absolutely sure. But they'll try it." If it is not completely irrevocable. And someone's experience, it's clear to them. One day, she came in and that's it. So I guess I'm mainly-the factual thing is that there seems to be-you know, I haven't had a huge wide - - I'm not saying my huge clinical experience or anything. But it seems like there's different-a lot of differences between how people do it. [0:04:49.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, no, I can see. There are different-
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: And I don't really know, at all, what goes on in some of those cases. And the other thing, well, that I was kind of wondering is whether there's some-whether you're wondering or not being able to imagine that you'd ever be that sure. To be able to say, "No, I don't need therapy anymore." 
PATIENT: Well I don't know if I really could speak that here. But you know, I was just thinking that it's a choice of mine right now. To be able to say, "Is it time to quit or not." I don't know. [0:05:29.5]
COUNSELOR: What would you say? You'd say, "I don't know." You just-you can't tell whether there have been changes in you that are, the kind that you wanted? The kind that - benefited you enough? 
PATIENT: Well - . I don't know exactly what you mean. [0:05:55.3]
COUNSELOR: I mean, you can't tell whether things have really changed. 
PATIENT: Well, no, I think I know where there (ph) are changes, but I just don't really-they could've changed enough? I mean, if it's possible to help them change more, to the standards that would be better. Versus if that was as far as they were going to. And whether I don't need help, in trying to get it to change more. It's a-it's not a matter of just-deciding whether to enter or enroll. Being good enough, so that I put pretense up. I don't know. 
It's been this-it's just matter of the change being-changes being more-substantial, more perfect, good enough. I would sort of-I would think as I go along, I'm sort of aware of the state of change that I'm fine with. I'm not really aware of it because I find that I'm more aware of how things are now. Some time in the future, sometimes hindsight is better. But you know, I've had some sort of consciousness. I don't really know where that leaves me. [0:07:57.2]
COUNSELOR: Well you're saying it's not a matter of whether you've had enough change or such thing. It's more a matter of something like-I guess I mean how I phrase it, it's like-something, it's like, "So things aren't absolutely perfect when you're not high all the time." And given that, it's not completely wonderful. What ways-or how much do you expect to maybe change from where you are? And how would that happen?
PATIENT: Well things haven't changed that much-it's just my awareness that has changed. Like say that I'm really back, I say I've changed, but not really. Like it's just a- me making my world better and all those other lines-it just changes the way I perceive it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:09:08.9)
PATIENT: No, well I've been just saying changes too. Because there are. Just been making concrete changes. You know and I just-and you were a speaker at a seminar. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I just wanted to make sure that-so does that mean that I was talking about, perceptions and everything, than the actual things that have happened. You know. I'm still not ironing out a lot of problems with my friends. I'm not-I'm not even approaching them differently than how I used to. But... my awareness of the problem is different. 
COUNSELOR: How you see it.
PATIENT: Yeah. My father is starting to give me all this stuff about coming home for the summer. "I don't know, Dad." I just say, "Yeah, yeah." (laughs) Every time he says something, to that. I had I guess three phone calls with him-over the three days span around the (inaudible at 0:10:30.6). And, I talked to him Thursday, and he said, "Are you coming home?" and I said, "Well, I don't know." And I just didn't find the heart to... to try to be realistic with him. 
And then when I talked to him Saturday, after the game. He sort of said, "Now you come home now. You can fly." I said, "Sure, sure." I just didn't want the hassle. But that's sort of what I'm - more what I'm faced (ph) in. I was considering staying in New York over the summer. And they wouldn't know I wouldn't go back home. 
COUNSELOR: You really weren't going to have one. 
PATIENT: Well. In the end, what it came down to is I got a new job, after that. It first didn't seem that I was going to get the job. That's how I told them I was going to stay here. But it hadn't really been finalized. And then I got worried that I didn't have the job after that (ph), so I went back and dropped the whole thing. But this year, I might even consider staying here. Even if I don't have the job. You know but I'm not going to argue with her now. Not at this point in time. No more pressure. I don't see the point in dragging it, the disagreement from now until June. I just wait and tell them the first days of June. And they'll be kind of-
COUNSELOR: So-
PATIENT: Sorry, that I'm not going to leave college.
COUNSELOR: But that's not a way of dealing with conflict with your father. It's the same, as it used to be. But do you mean, in the end-you know, what I haven't know-you are acting differently about it? 
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm acting, doing the same thing. [As I used to] (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Do you mind that thing?
PATIENT: Do I what?
COUNSELOR: That way? Do you see that way as a way you shouldn't be acting or?
PATIENT: I would like to stand up to him. That's what I would like to do. But I'm not letting him bother me too much that I'm not. And I'm not letting what is going on, bother me too much. I am not going to let it bother me. This is not for getting bothered about this. It's not going to help. It's just one more thing to make me more tense. So I just- [0:13:10.9]
COUNSELOR: So you don't want to have to think about it?
PATIENT: I'm not going to worry about it, because... and last year, they almost conceded letting me stay here and catch up saying, "You do what you feel is right." And I guess I didn't-they didn't do it last year, when I was still unrelieved. (ph) I really don't see how they could, make me go home this year. My [little sister] was like, " You have to go home too." And when I am still dealing with school in the same way, and that's not too well. And.. and that's - I haven't changed that much. In the way I feel about school. And the way I see it. I sort of feel that it's either (inaudible at 0:14:24.0) it's changing, particularly in a lot of (inaudible at 0:14:30.1). Because now I don't like to factor things immediately. And... but I'm still looking at school as I did before. 
COUNSELOR: You mean it's the same way it's just you have to do what (ph) you hate.
PATIENT: It's changed my seriousness. Everything reflecting on that I do it. 
COUNSELOR: But it's kind of removable. It's just an obligation.
PATIENT: What, by the way, I'm going through the same thing that I've gone through in my other quarters. Since I've gone to school, I've been really defeated by the tests I'm taking. That I can't keep up on the work. That's like, there's some in the course that can't do, I'm not going to do photography. That I won't be creative enough. I won't have the time, to spend. Time to get creative enough. I feel it's been really good. You know, it's really exterior. I don't think that I'm doing too well, in the photography course. And that really bothers me because, I really like taking pictures. To do (inaudible at 0:15:56.6) for the first time destroys, my aspirations or whatever. Because we don't have time for it. 
COUNSELOR: When you kind of thought you were good, and here you find, you're doing stuff that isn't so hot?
PATIENT: I don't know if I thought I was good, but I didn't think I was this bad. But it gets more and more like I thought I knew more. Then what I'm beginning to think I know. Stuff like that. That's bothering me in an entirely different way, from the normal way classes bother me. 
COUNSELOR: It's more personal. [0:16:34.8]
PATIENT: Yeah. And I keep trying to tell myself that it's nothing to worry about because, it's nothing to get upset about. Just do the best you can. Because you're (inaudible at 0:16:54.9). It's just doesn't work yet. I kind of have been pretty depressed the last few days. It's been really bad. You know, it's just-not working. But I figured if I do get a lot of stuff to study and, do the work that's expected of me even if I don't get it all done, I really can't blame myself then. Maybe I could be better about not worrying. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Even if the outcome isn't that much different?
PATIENT: If it's not good, yeah. I hope it'll be different. I hope I got at least half out of (inaudible at 0:17:42.2). I don't think I'll be too upset, by not being good, As and Bs in all. 
COUNSELOR: You are kind of changing what you want the outcome to be? And concerning your-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No, I'm changing what I'd be satisfied with. I'd still like the outcome to be as good as possible. I'd be satisfied with, you know. I don't know. Being hesitant to be satisfied with less than anything B (ph) is just, sort of fucked me up. So far this year, like I've had two Ds. Not many, but I don't know some of that is pretty-and I'm really afraid of him. And he didn't see me, he said, "I don't want to play this." And you know, that's because of my father and everything like that, too. And when I started falling behind in the course and not doing as well, not doing B or A level work, then it (inaudible at 0:19:00.8)-that just leads to me wanting to quit the course before it gets any worse. Sometimes I can drop it. Sometimes I do not. But other times it's sort of a defense, I just stop working all together. And then (inaudible at 0:19:20.8), I stay around and you know...
COUNSELOR: "It doesn't reflect on me." 
PATIENT: Yeah, because I can't do everything. So I [went round] (ph) on that. I wish it would be like switching a switch. But I don't know how. No, I won't talk about something else, I can't even hear it-keep it out of my mind. Pretty clear to me that I found out, Monday, I don't know why I flipped it in or anything like that. I suddenly realized how much I judge people, on physical appearance. Like the face. Sometimes it's been their whole body. But, there have been all these misjudgments about their personality. Just on the basis of their face. They sometimes have expressive looking faces. Other people have stupid looking faces. 
I-oh, I saw a picture of Morton Kaplan. It was taken Monday. And I was just walking up, and he just looks like so mean. And so stupid. And I can't really describe it. Just looking stupid and, I don't know if any of the (inaudible at 0:21:04.3). Sheepish, looked sheepish. Then I - I was approached by all these things he did, he's got a personality exactly the opposite from the way he looks. He could be, more aggressive and stark and cold, than people who have faces that I really associate with those things. You know, the way a person looks has nothing really to do, with their personality. 
COUNSELOR: Well you're telling me an instance where, where it might be the opposite. But that doesn't necessarily mean that in general, (inaudible at 0:21:55.5), it doesn't mean that in general you might be incorrect. But I guess you mean that that one instance with Kaplan where there seems to be such a disjunction between what he says and how he looks, made you wonder about your world. (ph) Made you wonder [some things about that?] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know, sort of sounds to me like you're-you're saying in general I might be too? That I do my future?
COUNSELOR: No, I was-I wasn't exactly saying that. I don't know - you're kind of interesting, issue, as an issue. I mean are people responsible for their faces?
PATIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: But I meant more-explicate what your issue, if it was. Which I guess is something like, because you were wrong on this one. 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I realize, on the-
COUNSELOR: That there may be an arbitrary relationship instead of the-
PATIENT: I just realized how-
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:22:53.4)
PATIENT: I don't know, how arbitrary [most stuff is] (ph) or people.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like realizing, I guess like realizing, you always thought you were right, on this kind of thing. 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I didn't think I was right-
COUNSELOR: You just did it a lot.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's just the way I was. Some people, some people look friendly, some people look cold. And I didn't really think that-someone who looks cold could turn out to be a very very warm, or (ph) gentle person. You know and vice versa. But ... 
COUNSELOR: But those initial impressions are really compelling to you. 
PATIENT: They're not really compelling, they're just real. They're... that with people there's never been any real doubt in my mind.
COUNSELOR: You're very strong about, like that you know what people are like when you look at them. 
PATIENT: Really...
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: I think I'm misunderstanding-
PATIENT: I keep on - I keep on getting the idea that you're trying to... insert an element of my being aware of what I am doing.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? (laughs)
PATIENT: I'm just.. I'm really not aware, normally, that I'm judging a person on what he looks like. I'm really not aware of it. I just do it. (0:24:40.3)
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: And I realized the other day, the extent to which I do it, and the strength of the conclusions I reach on the basis of a person's appearance. I just-the whole way I, I operate toward the person, is really a result of how they look . And I don't think about, this person, how does he look. Does he look cold, does he look nice or something like that. I just...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I see. Is that like a setback?
PATIENT: It's an automatic thing.
COUNSELOR: Is it like- if on Monday you realized that something that you do. But what ordinarily happens is, you react to a person. Just, you know, however. However you do. And you just-
PATIENT: Yeah, how I react to a person depends on what they look like. I just realized that that's actually really dumb. I could be really wrong about people that way. And.. I mean, I could think of all sorts of examples, of people who look one way, and (inaudible at 0:26:18.0) And I don't know, it really bothered me that this is way that I react-this has been such a significant thing in the way I deal with people. And react to people or something like that. And that I hadn't been aware of it. 
And that it's also very ingrained in me. Even now that I'm aware that I do it. That's not going to eliminate (ph) it. You know, every time I look at a person, I sort of have to keep in mind that, all these things I feel about him came from his looks. It may not be true. And that I should just disregard them. Something like that all over, is that going to be hard to disregard. Unless you are constantly aware of some impression you have about somebody. You know, is it some action or deed that he did. Or something that's said. Or is it just, another one of those things. Appearance things. 
COUNSELOR: So it just seems like it's just going to open up all these things that you always have to keep checking-
PATIENT: I should keep-
COUNSELOR: Checking yourself on. 
PATIENT: I should keep... try to be aware of this thing. I don't know, it seems like a lot to do. And it does-it also seems to me that I shouldn't continue to size up people, on the basis of looks. Either automatically or deliberately. I should cut that out. It seems like a lot to do. 
COUNSELOR: That's a pretty-a pretty big thing to change, especially if it's something you do so automatically. 
PATIENT: Yeah. But I agree with you, so I shouldn't use this anymore. It's not that-I mean-
COUNSELOR: You mean because it's such an inaccurate-potentially in accurate way... 
PATIENT: I don't think it's not only potentially, I think it is. 
COUNSELOR: Right, well I mean that it has a lot of pitfalls. I didn't mean to be putting on you to cast doubt, with that. [0:28:58.2]
PATIENT: It's just ...
COUNSELOR: Like you (ph) were saying, it's not a very good way of forming an impression?
PATIENT: It's superstitious. I don't think there's really too much relationship between the two things. It's just like people who traditionally (ph) look glum, which is me, don't always feel as glum as they look. Like even when I'm not feeling glum, quite often I might have a frown on my face. I might be looking glum. That's probably, the-one of the things that just turned other people off to me. They're, "He's got such a big frown on his face looking like there's probably nothing I can say or do can probably take it off." When actually I wasn't feeling that bad at all. I don't know. [0:30:13.4]
There are sometimes when, when how person looks is an accurate description perhaps of some facet of how they are. You know, like I've given moments of someone to me-raging mad in that picture, look it. I don't think it's such a good idea to assume someone's raging mad just because they look at you unless they see some sort of action. Or some sort of word. Before I come to a conclusion on the basis of someone's looks, I should have some sort of other side-this is the way it is. Unless they-unless some other evidence says that this is how they are. 
And it kind of-I'm not offended, it is [two years] (ph), but it's distressing that this is the way I've been dealing with people. For I don't know how long. I think when I was a lot younger, in junior high school or something like that. I might have been aware that this could happen. You know that you judge people on more than just looks. So I said, "Yeah, that's a possibility, but not me. I won't do that." I might not have then-since then, I've developed it. It's a very strong thing. It just sort of creeped up on me. [0:32:09.3]
COUNSELOR: So now it's like all of a sudden you've realized, you're ding a thing that you thought you'd never do. Is that the distressing aspect of it? 
PATIENT: No, that's not the distressing aspect of it. That is a true observation. But the distressing thing is just, it's especially, now that I'm aware of it, I've got to stop it. It's not acceptable for me to do this and I'm realizing I'm doing it. And it's also feeling that I have to be careful that I don't forget about it. Like it's - I could just forget about it and then slip back into it, very easily. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so it's like there's something that you're doing, you really don't endorse and you really don't think you should be doing. But realizing that, this puts this whole big job on you. And that's, becomes that- the thing that you're feeling kind of heavy about it. 
PATIENT: Yeah and there's the possibility that I could forget. And then it just occurred to me, what about the people that I have already come to these conclusions on. How much-how much of the way I deal about the person is, formed on the basis of their appearance, and how much is formed on better grounds, like their behavior or their words. 
COUNSELOR: And you're wondering if you're going to have to reassess, all your - [0:34:04.6]
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I think that would be a good idea. Yeah. But that's hard to do too. Because the way you feel about a person, it's not like it's just like written down on a three by five card that you consult every once in a while. It's kind of - - it's pervasive. Every time you see the person or talk to the person, it's always in there somewhere. 
COUNSELOR: But you can't just, sort of, pull it out-
PATIENT: And put the right one back in. 
COUNSELOR: It's much more of a kind of implicit reaction thing.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:34:51.2) So this is sort of when I don't know when to do, when I'm here. I bring up something, something that I feel really odd. And then, yeah. What do you do with it. 
COUNSELOR: Well what's happening with it?
PATIENT: This right now? I just feel that it's been talked out. 
COUNSELOR: Not solved, or.. 
PATIENT: Well, solving would take time. It would take (inaudible at 0:35:36.8)
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: I don't really mean solving-solving the issue. But not resolved, or you don't feel like you're really finished with it in a way that clearly says, "I've learned something." Or something has changed. Something like that. 
PATIENT: I don't know, at this point, that I really would expect that to happen. For something like this. I just sort of felt this, it's sort of a... significant thing to be aware of. And it's very meaningful for me. And when I make this decision to survive. (ph) So let's talk about it.
COUNSELOR: So did you talk about it, as you wanted to? Did the thing happen that you wanted to?
PATIENT: Pretty much. I talked about it a little bit more than I normally think I can handle. More depth.
COUNSELOR: I guess I mean, when you end-when you kind of end, and you get to this point and you don't know what to do with it. Being satisfied with how we've talked about it, and kind of been hearing-kind of thinking we're finished with that. There isn't anything more to say. 
PATIENT: Being satisfied, isn't-I seem to, give you an accurate description of it or something like that. And, I don't know. That's about it. Just so that I give a really good description, of this thing that is really peculiar. And... 
COUNSELOR: So that sounds more-
PATIENT: So I sit describing it, then what do I do? How else can I talk about it other than describing it? What other things can I discover about it perhaps. (inaudible at 0:37:41.3)COUNSELOR: But there must be more to it than just this. 
COUNSELOR: What is the reference toward?
PATIENT: To that too, I mean to the thing that's the true issue. 
COUNSELOR: Do you think there is? Or is this-I mean, it seems to me there are certainly things that you're -  or that a person wants to talk about, and kind of explain to someone else, and doesn't know really have particular questions about it. 
PATIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: But I don't know if this is one of those things. You know, on each thing that is apparent, could be the case or else not be the case. You could have - there could be something bothering you about it. 
PATIENT: Yeah because I just want to tell you about this thing. It's almost as if I just want to tell you about... like how much I enjoy playing softball in the midway (ph) or something. Or a... 
COUNSELOR: So you-
PATIENT: Or what a nice day (inaudible at 0:38:37.1) just say that because. 
COUNSELOR: I understand what you're wondering to say. You're worrying about whether you should bring it up at all? You just wanted-
PATIENT: Well I'll if... Yeah like what am I getting at if, if it's just pretty much like telling you... how I feel about some, something I fear (ph) or some sort. Something like that. 
COUNSELOR: You can't tell-
PATIENT: I'm not getting upset. 
COUNSELOR: You weren't. 
PATIENT: I guess not. I'm not ready to talk a lot about it. But it's good to be able to talk about it with somebody. Most, most people wouldn't be interested, in trying to find out do I pretty much have what I meant. Or just be willing to... to hear what I say and debate it about its weaknesses and its logic or something. Without really trying to find out what I meant. So it's good to be able to talk about it. But, there most-there must be something that would be more valuable to come (inaudible at 0:40:10.1) to time. Tell you something that's not a problem I guess. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: You're so ambitious with that. Because one is I don't think it's a great norm-sometimes the norm gets out in therapy that you can only talk about the bad things. Or the things that are tearing you apart. I think that's very restrictive, to people. 
PATIENT: Yeah well that, I guess I sort of mentioned that before. I didn't want to talk about, like surcharge (ph) the problems I was dealing with. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I think, that there's really something to be said for that. So, so there's got to be room for just talking, you know talking about (inaudible at 0:40:57.3). And there's got to be room for talking about feelings, if you do. At the same time, I guess the other side of that. This issue about how to keep on making it possible, making it easier for people to talk about the things that are problems and do bother them. 
And also to figure out-to try to find ways to figure out, if there are any problems. It's like saying, trying to figure out if there aspects of something you're talking about that are a problem for you. Without making it seem like, you can only talk about it, if you find something that really bothers you. I guess I want to get across to you a point. (ph) [0:41:50.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, that's a good point. 
COUNSELOR: With - of the whole that I said, or (inaudible at 0:41:57.4). 
PATIENT: I think the start of it, you know, you said that it is being restrictive just to talk bad things. But after that.. 
COUNSELOR: Well, at the same time-then there's-not at the same time. Maybe it's like on the other hand. I think it's-it is important and difficult to find ways to, so that people can talk about the things that bother them. Also so that they can find out whether there are things that bother them in something that they just brought. And kind of see that there are things that they want to figure out or open up, problems with something. [0:42:52.4]
One of the problems [we've found] (ph) is how that should happen because it seems like-it's the-you probably just keep saying there's something [to bring up] (ph) or something that you bring up. You say, and you probably don't [inaudible at 0:43:04.7]. Where is that a problem for you. Does that bother you. That there's a danger that can set up that norm, that there are only-that you can only talk about bad things but if I don't ask or say-or try to open that up. There's a possibility that we won't find out, if there is something wrong there. So I guess I sometimes ask and sometimes don't. It may not be the best way of solving that. 
PATIENT: I don't know, it seems to me that... that there must be some really good way to talk about things that I don't necessarily have a problem. Some beneficial way to talk about things that aren't problems. My friends, they go to counseling because they have (ph) a lot of and I don't have as many problems.
COUNSELOR: And you wonder what they talk about, you mean? (laughs)
PATIENT: No. I'm saying if they talk things, I just wonder-
COUNSELOR: How are they talking.
PATIENT: I just think that it's sort of difficult. Everything is not approached as if [it is] (ph) like a problem. You know a lot of it could just be... You know like I did, exploring things that just can't handle (ph) or some like this, this thing that I just talked about. 
COUNSELOR: But you mean-
PATIENT: It is a problem but-
COUNSELOR: Is that in the past, stuff that is really concerning you again.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Do you feel that we didn't adequately kind of explore around that, particular thing?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know, what I expected. [0:45:28.9]
COUNSELOR: But in a way, it seems you in some kind of loose kind of way, it seems to you like-there should have been more to that discussion?
PATIENT: Well, maybe, maybe. I don't know. I thought that-one day, I was wondering why-I was sort of wondering why -  why it occurred to me. I don't know what I was thinking about when it occurred to me. I was just wondering why, and you know also really mean what does it mean. 
COUNSELOR: What does it mean that has occurred to you? 
PATIENT: What does it mean about me, that this is the why I've been doing it. Do other people do it? Maybe you could tell me? Do I do it more than other people? If not, why? (ph)
COUNSELOR: Kind of asking is something wrong with you for - for being like that?
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Well not especially for being wrong with me. But just - 
COUNSELOR: Different. 
PATIENT: But just - what does it mean? What's it-what does it say about me, what can-what can you infer about me from the fact that I did this. You know, it was just-I really learned something about myself, when I thought of that. And I don't think I know everything that it might tell you. 
COUNSELOR: Have you learned the point? (ph) [0:47:13.6]
PATIENT: Who knows? What I learned?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hm. 
PATIENT: Well... this-sort of like this, just a lot of things. I've been looking at a lot of things and a lot of people and everything, like that. But you know, I'm prejudiced. And just so there's a good possibility that it's... in the choice (ph). Whatever the choice is, it's hidden in your nature, or at least you know, not there's any really real nature for anyone. (ph) It's sort of been like a math or something, hiding it. It just seems, now that... I don't know. It just seems to me, I put a lot of - a lot of judgments that I made in question. A lot of things I've done are in question. And, I wonder about its significance in relation to my problem of-my social problem with my peers. I keep on-I keep thinking peers, social problem with peers. [0:49:30.1]
COUNSELOR: You mean, you mean kind of-
PATIENT: Getting along with the kids. 
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Yeah. 
PATIENT: That's what I mean. 
COUNSELOR: You're going to the doctor and you're having to use all these formal words for me. (laughs)
PATIENT: Yeah I just-
COUNSELOR: You mean you wonder if that-if like how you-how you kind of reacted and made those judgments-you made those judgments is another place where I guess it sounds much more cognitive and much more automatic. And that it's kind of like-implicit when you draw a conclusion. And ....
PATIENT: I just wonder how significant they've been in getting me to the place I am now. 
COUNSELOR: You mean kind of like conflict (ph) -  you're wondering there are you haven't met that might be nice, because you'd avoid them? [0:50:19.0]
PATIENT: Yeah, people that I've never cultivated. Or that I might have bad contacts with. But you know.
COUNSELOR: But you never tried to get to know any in a real way. 
PATIENT: No, because I haven't, in any case... I don't know. And there's the possibility that my-my appearance might have turned people off too. 
COUNSELOR: What if other people have been implicitly drawing conclusions about you? (inaudible at 0:51:01.9)
PATIENT: Yeah. In which case I could sort of (ph) explanation, permission for why I don't see maybe to-to really fit in. I don't know, I-it just seems to-that it could have a lot of significance. It seems kind of funny just to describe it and then all of a sudden, just... 
COUNSELOR: It's like saying, "There's this thing that I do." 
PATIENT: Well, just now I could, sort of, go around the edges and see (ph) other things about it that could be talked about.
COUNSELOR: So it's more of a context for you?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Is there a way-can you think of ways that say I could help and you're doing that. Hoped it would be something like, just a - there's this thing that I do. 
PATIENT: If you ask me-I don't know what you could ask. You could say, "What does it mean?" And I'd probably say, "I don't know." But... 
COUNSELOR: You mean I'd kind of say, "What is this thing that you're talking about kind of signify, to you?" [0:52:49.9]
PATIENT: I don't know, maybe you did say that. I don't know. But you might have asked, "What are the implications for you?" or something like that. You might have asked something like that. But I may have been thinking about what you asked, in a different way. So that I wouldn't think of these other things. 
COUNSELOR: Well then-
PATIENT: I mean if you asked me what are its implications and I said like that, "Stop it." Or something like that. And like you said, you don't ask me. You don't want to keep us in 'What's the problem.' You could've asked, "Does this-do you see any connection between this and your problems?" But that's it. I'm not trying to make anything a problem. 
COUNSELOR: You know, actually, it's not-it's not just trying to make everything a problem. Another thing about it that occurred to me is everything connects, and be consistent. And I think that's the main, the-the norm and the thing that you just said that I object to, in general. I don't know about this specific thing but it just reminded me of is-when everything has to be-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, well that was another possibility. You could've asked, "Does this connect with anything else?" You know, all these things I don't even suggest that you might have done. It's just a possibility or something you'd like to say, not that they would have necessarily made any big difference. It would've helped a lot. [0:54:27.7]
COUNSELOR: Can you think of other -  of things that just might have made it easier for you to keep on talking about it and get around those things. Or things that might have helped you-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No, I think it's pretty much entirely you know, like it's in me. For the most part, the direction of what talking there is, I think is...mainly given by me. I don't know you might try to help or steer or something like that. But I may be just-by saying that, no, I don't understand about it, what to talk about. This other aspect -  no sorry-I think part of the thing with that was sort of to guide. And point you in a different direction so you might see something. I don't think I'm very steerable (ph). I'm too willful or something like that. And, I'm - if you know, you try to turn me some direction. I would just say, "I didn't understand. It doesn't make sense to me right now. Or something like that." [0:55:49.9]
COUNSELOR: You mean even whether or not that's the case. But just because you kind of might, stay in your way. Something like that?
PATIENT: No, no. Whether or not-and I don't want to stay in my way but I'm just-this is the way I'm actually working at the moment. This is the way I'm moving. And not so much someone has to push me, off of this...this direction my mind is going. Like a little tension or something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like - it is like trying to push. I mean, I think the experience is that someone is trying to drop-push you over? And you don't want to move?
PATIENT: No, no. I don't-I didn't experience it. It's... [0:56:40.8]
COUNSELOR: It's more like inertia or something. 
PATIENT: If I wanted to make myself as-I don't think there's anything you to do about it. If I wanted to make myself as bendable, guidable as possible. I don't think I could do it, because-my mind thinks in certain patterns and in certain ways. And in certain contexts, and if you try to turn me from the way I'm heading, it's sort of out of context or something. It just doesn't make such great sense to me. There's not much that I can do about it. [0:57:40.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wasn't talking about, so much about trying to get you always to set a context or something like that. Or rather I think, wondering if there are ways, if there were any ways that would just make that easier for you, to do, when you thought you maybe wanted to.
PATIENT: To make (inaudible at 0:58:01.8).
COUNSELOR: To elaborate the context and say something that, to get into the different things around the images, after you've described them?
PATIENT: Yeah, I said I didn't think there was much you could do. But, when I'm - when I'm saying something that seems really meaningful to me. My directions are set, pretty much, you know from within. There's not much you can do to guide me to those edges (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Well when you get to the end, and you've kind of said your thing, like what happened with this thing. 
PATIENT: Then you might, but you might have to be more (inaudible at 0:58:54.5). I just cannot [say that enough.] (ph) Do you know what I'm kind of-doing those things. Make it a problem or something like that. I don't know exactly what it is. I mean, I probably respond to some sort of... guidance or direction. I don't exactly know, what it is. 
COUNSELOR: You don't know when you can, factor that in, when you know.
PATIENT: Well no, I don't know how it would be done. 
COUNSELOR: How-what are the conditions. [0:59:41.9]
PATIENT: Yeah, if you just said, "How does this connect with all the other things?" I'm not too sure I'd see very many connections at all.
COUNSELOR: That might-that kind of explicit thing might not be the way of really getting to that. 
PATIENT: I don't know. You might have to be more specific, than that. You might have to... be able to at that moment, fit it in with one of my problems or something like that. Even if it was just... just for the sake of discussion. Like you might associate specifically within one of my past problems. You know, it might not be the best association of problem and thing, possible. But just having a specific thing to grab onto. 
COUNSELOR: That's hard because it's so-it would be-if, that would be very hard for me to do that, particular thing. Because it's so different from my mindset, what my mindset is in here. It would imply a-
PATIENT: Yeah, put me down in some notebook and flipping back pages, "Aha, you said this. And that's what that means?"
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I really can't-I kind of glad because I don't think-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Well, you just wanted possibilities. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right. I know. 
PATIENT: I'm not trying -  I'm not suggesting that we do it or anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I wasn't exactly refusing. I was just more, just musing on what would that be like for me. So, not exactly inconceivable to me. I mean, but realizing that it was really different. 
PATIENT: Yeah, that's sort of like a thing that you can't change. And you sit in a chair with a notebook or something. And that can be better (inaudible at 1:01:36.8). And that's that. 
COUNSELOR: I guess it is time to stop. It's a kind of funny way to end, with that. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know if I exactly feel like I meant to end either. 
COUNSELOR: You mean it isn't-it isn't exactly real to you that you're not coming back?
PATIENT: Yeah. I just sort of said I was going to wait until the end. And see whether or not I get another little piece of paper to put in the box and if I did, I'd come back. And if I didn't, I wouldn't. 
COUNSELOR: You were waiting for me to say something about that. 
PATIENT: Maybe. Yeah, I didn't want to touch it. 
COUNSELOR: You didn't want to say about what you wanted. [1:02:33.3]
PATIENT: I don't know. I sort of didn't want to be the one, to suggest violating 20 sessions or... I don't know. I didn't want to-
COUNSELOR: On the grounds of what?
PATIENT: On the grounds of I decided that they'd have a reason for setting 20 sessions, and I agreed to it. And if at all possible, I should try to abide by the agreement. 
COUNSELOR: But if I said something, than that would mean what?
PATIENT: Then that would mean that, you-
COUNSELOR: (laughs) I'm not.
PATIENT: You're the other sort-the agreement thing. A contract between a counselor or a counseling center, and me. And I didn't want to be the one to suggest that, would the agreement be not binding.
COUNSELOR: How come? [1:03:49.5]
PATIENT: How come?
COUNSELOR: I can think of a lot of different responses, [wouldn't you] (ph)? 
PATIENT: Because I sort of said, there's some sort of logic, to the agreement in the first place. It is like bypassing the normal, normal waiting list, to, get on with the research. And, you know, in bypassing the normal waiting list, you also make the people on the normal waiting list wait longer. 
COUNSELOR: So what-are you kind of saying, well if I was willing to say, the hell with that. Or never mind those aspects. Then that would be okay. Because I would probably, know that that was okay. And I would be taking the responsibility for that. 
PATIENT: Pretty much. [1:04:58.5]
COUNSELOR: But for you to just kind of suggest that would be like-
PATIENT: Kind of.
COUNSELOR: You can't make it like an infraction (ph) or something. 
PATIENT: No, just the normal self thinking (ph)-that's kind-the thing for me to do. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It would be a selfish thing to do?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Did you also worry what it would be like to kind of-what if I said, "No, I can't do that." Or something like that?
PATIENT: Yeah. I was feeling like, "Oh gee I wouldn't ask." And, you know, she thinks I'm greedy.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) It would be pretty embarrassing. And it would be embarrassing not just from being rejected, but because what you think of me-
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Well-
COUNSELOR: What you'd think I'd think.
PATIENT: Yeah, being rejected too. What someone would think of me for asking.
COUNSELOR: Well, a couple of things. I guess now I'm going to be more practical (ph), about it. Not - did you kind of finish that?
PATIENT: Yeah, I suppose. [1:06:11.0]
COUNSELOR: Well one thing, if you asked I could flag (ph). That's one thing I wouldn't do, particularly. (laughs) That you were selfish. I would feel like, that's nice that he wants to keep on coming. The rationale for this 20 session thing was this fall, even. I guess, I'm really sorry that I didn't explain this before. I don't know if it came up and I let it go by, or - I think it did, early on. The rationale was a couple of things. There's-you're in research and that isn't (inaudible at 1:06:53.4). 
When there's research on the outcome of therapy, one of the things that they found out here when they're doing research like that, that if they don't control the number of times that people come, that's one treatment area. They-it's very difficult to interpret the results. They have to hold certain things constant. And they found also, that in general, you can predict is that, or groups-if you compare a group that can come as long as it wants, or a group that has time-limited therapy, the outcome is the same. Like they told you. That's overall. That's not for every group that-not necessarily true for each individual.
PATIENT: Yeah. [1:07:38.7]
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: For each individual, you know-
PATIENT: Yeah but this is also people who knew they were limited all the time. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: To 20.
COUNSELOR: Right, not people who get thrown out. 
(laughter)
PATIENT: After 20, you're like, "Surprise. You can't come."
COUNSELOR: I think that would help, that we'll have to think on (ph). And the other rationale on this particular research was, since that - even so, even though there's the same outcome overall, not a good outcome. People should be able to decide whether they're in a time limited thing like that, because it has some certain disadvantages, which you know all about. Certain disadvantages for the client. And even though it may have the same outcome, there are kind of - some issues that shake out later on (ph) with time limited therapy. (inaudible at 1:08:31.9) And some are good and some are bad. But they are different. 
And that's why they-and often people, the choice that you need-we want to offer people the choice of being in research or not, also because you have to take the test. I mean at the end. And the notion was, I guess, if you're going to do that-if you think that the person is going to do that, you should give them something in return. And that-the other things we have to offer in return at the center are, a shorter waiting time and a more experienced therapist. So that, that was the kind of trade-off that was offered. 
And that-I'm not sure if that speaks to things, it's just kind of explaining that the rationale for therapy was set up- [1:09:27.4]
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't exactly know what that means.
COUNSELOR: What that means in terms of what?
PATIENT: Of, my situation that... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what we'll do next? Yeah, well about your situation now. If you're-see I can't tell if you're even asking that. If you want to keep going with me. And I guess the thing, if you want, I'll have to check into this. But if you're asking that, the thing to do is-after you're done with the test, come back and we can talk about different alternatives. And think about that. And if you want to think-I guess I'll explain and if you wanted to say, pick a time say the week after next, and you want to come in and talk about what we could do, that's fine with me. 
PATIENT: That would be really good. When would you like me to pick a time? [1:10:20.6]
COUNSELOR: Well we could just figure it out now. If you want. Then we could talk about it, what you want to do. And figure out something, not saying, we're going right on with this. Just assessing and talk about it.
PATIENT: Kind of what?
COUNSELOR: Kind of assessing and seeing, and there's also the possibility of other therapists here or something. Yeah, you could just do that. I guess, one of the reasons that I'm saying that's, talking about it now. It's just, it's another research thing. I don't know, in general. I guess, out in working with him, he has the feeling that people kind of have their plans figured out before, what they're going to do next when they take the test. And you shouldn't do that. Besides it will probably be clearer in a week. But it's too rushed now. 
PATIENT: Yeah. That's fine. [1:11:24.8]
COUNSELOR: Not this week. Next week is May third, and the week after that is May tenth. So, tell me when I-
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:11:39.0) Now, I take two tests don't I? 
COUNSELOR: I don't know anything about the tests. 
PATIENT: You don't.
COUNSELOR: But I guess you took two things last time, right?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Took two different kinds. Yeah, I guess it's the same. And I'm - I just gave a note to Allen today that this is your last time. So he'll be getting in touch with you, and arranging that. But I suppose they'd do that next week. If you can. 
PATIENT: Yeah I just didn't really know about how I -  it isn't, having to spend I don't know how many hours now doing it. I'm just so busy. But.
COUNSELOR: It's really going to be imposing on you?
PATIENT: In a way, but, I, you know-it seems like a waste of time. Not like I'm going to try and do this test in 15 minutes. 
COUNSELOR: You can't just go 'boom, boom'. Well, I'll tell you. I'm really pretty much free. There are a couple times that I can't do it. Like, you have 1 class. I was going to say that, 9:00-10:30, except Wednesday and Friday. And the other times I can't do it, are 4:00 on Monday and 3:00 on Tuesday. That's about it. So we'll just make this work.
PATIENT: Why don't you just, set a time out of the hat.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) 
PATIENT: And I'll come. Probably Monday, Wednesday, Friday would be better because I have three classes on Tuesday and Thursday. [1:13:30.6]
COUNSELOR: Okay. How about... 3:30 on Monday? 
PATIENT: 3:30 on Monday? 
COUNSELOR: Do you want a little thing? 
PATIENT: Yeah, could I?
COUNSELOR: Okay, and do you have my phone number so if you can't make it then, if you haven't finished the test, you can call?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, let's do it like that. 
PATIENT: Something just occurred to me (inaudible at 1:14:29.3). 
COUNSELOR: Do you want to stop and try to figure it out or?
PATIENT: No. I get to keep this right?
COUNSELOR: Right. It's been real nice working with you.
PATIENT: That sounds very final.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: That sounds very final. 
COUNSELOR: Too final?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'll see you in a couple of weeks.
COUNSELOR: Right, bye. 
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: To come of it? Separate from how it feels to be, just doing that. 
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Not sure what it feels like.
COUNSELOR: And wondering if he asks who is going to fall, if he keeps on this way. 
PATIENT: Looking for the feeling that, like I'm been wrong to think that, that I could do that to.
END TRANSCRIPT
