TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is client number 1923-018, client 1923-018. February 9, 1971, February 9, 1971, session number four.
PATIENT: It's cold in here.
COUNSELOR: I was lucky I got a ride this morning.
PATIENT: Pardon me?
COUNSELOR: I was lucky I got a ride this morning.
PATIENT: Well if I had gotten up and got going faster I could have had one to because my roommate usually leave about 7:00 o'clock in the morning but she didn't leave until about 8:30 this morning. I didn't get up until about 8:15 so. I can't sleep at night. Like my body's backwards you know I mean people shouldn't be sleeping in the day time, people should be sleeping at night. I do my best sleeping in the morning. And I, I used to stay up until 2:00 or 3:00 o'clock in the morning it doesn't bother me a bit. Until the next morning when I have to get up, then that's when I drag myself out of bed. Do you know anything about dreams?
COUNSELOR: I like dreams.
PATIENT: No do you know anything about them? How to interpret them?
COUNSELOR: Some. Did you have a dream or something?
PATIENT: I had a weird a dream. It was like a week ago, anyway, I had a dream about Jay.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I think it was about two days after I saw you last. It was really weird and I don't understand it all. I dreamed that Jay and I and this girl that we both know Tracy Witkower. Neither one of us know her very well but we both know her. And this guy whose name his face just eludes me. We're taking the children on a camping weekend, and we're taking now I don't remember whether they were her brothers and sisters, or were there a couple of them were her brothers and sisters or the rest of them were friends or something but we had about 15 little boys and girls ages six to ten. And every one of them had their very own dog or cat. So we had quite a few people and then the four, four of us. We went we took them to this little old - the thing is so vivid my dreams I never even remember them it just - we took them to this little old cottage. Back I I assumed it was like up in the Catskills or in Upstate or something like that. It was back in the woods it was deep woods. And it was this little cottage. And like it had, two, it stuck out like in the front and the door, the front door was set back in. And there was (inaudible at 0:02:49.7) growing all around everything it was kind of tumbled down leaning to one side and stuff.
COUNSELOR: The front door was set in? 0:02:52.7
PATIENT: Yeah the front door was set in. It was like almost like houses are kind of like "H"s. It was just set in a little bit. And, it was all tumbled down I remember getting the feeling thinking "Boy I hope that the wind doesn't pull, or the place would fall down." And we get up there about noon, and we were playing around with the kids and about dinner time, Tracy and this other guy said they had to go into town and they'd be gone all night. They had something they had to take care of. And I don't remember what it was. I understood when I was dreaming but I don't remember what it was. And they left and so we were outside, 15 kids and Jay and I and all the dogs and cats playing flashlight tag and things like that with the kids. And I remember getting an eerie feeling. I'm not, I kind of like, I (inaudible at 0:02:56.9) the woods and stuff like that like I was chicken or something. Being, I was afraid like I was afraid.
PATIENT: Very scary yeah.
COUNSELOR: And so finally persuaded the kids to come in probably about 9:00 or 10:00 o'clock to go to bed. We had them all down in bed and I remember there was two dogs and a cat missing. And, when we came in like they had run off when we were outside playing or something and I, I assured the children as I tucked them in that their animals would return that they knew where we were, and I'd let them in when they came. It was the summer time. You know how doors like have like two panels? It'll have a top panel and a bottom panel.
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah.
PATIENT: And they usually have glass in the top and wood in the bottom?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Well the front door had glass panels in both. Got all the kids bedded down, in sleeping bags they were just sleeping on the floor. Jay, Jay and I were sleeping we weren't sleeping together but we were sleeping next to each other, on sleeping bags. And I got by the door, so I was, I could lay there and I could open my eyes and see out the panel and see when the dogs and cats came. I closed the door and lock it and I remember when I in my dream I remember when I lock the door that I just kind of grabbed the door and locked it fast like I was scared. And I went to sleep. And I remember waking up and I opened my eyes and there were two dogs and I even remember, one of them was of those little Scotties and one of them was a Dotson. And I don't remember what the and the cat was out there and they were all pacing back and front by the door, looking very nervous. Again there's this nervous thing. And I was thinking to myself well I better get up and let them in. And just as I was about to move there was this wolf howl, very close, very loud, very real and I remember thinking, the animals jumped that I was watching I didn't even I don't know how it happened in the inside. And I remember thinking I'll bet he can walk right through these walls. And then I woke up. I scared myself so much that I woke up. 
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: And I was really awake then.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:06:01.9
PATIENT: And then I tried to go back to sleep thinking, "No there are no wolves around. You can go back to sleep they won't get you." But I can't interpret that I have no way, I thought at first when I just woke up I thought, got to thinking I live right behind close behind the fire house that, "Oh it was just an alarm."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But the more I think about it I don't think it was. Because after I woke up I don't remember hearing any more alarms and all through the dream before I heard the alarm I opened my eyes and the cats and dogs and cat were pacing like they were scared of something out there. And all I had this (inaudible at 0:06:02.8) and I don't understand it. It's weird.
COUNSELOR: Yeah weird. The, the thing that comes through the most clearly is the weirdness and scariness and that it's eerie out in the dark. 
PATIENT: Yeah. And I'm not afraid of dark normally.
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah.
PATIENT: But...
COUNSELOR: One thing one thing people will do sometimes is tell it over again from a different point of view. Maybe you'd like to tell it over again from the point of view of the wolf. 
PATIENT: I don't know. From the point of the wolf?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like what was my wolf thinking? I don't even I don't even know why I put the wolf, at first I thought I was just dreaming about Jay. Having a dream about Jay and the kids being around were like, when I wondered, me wondering if I'd like to have kids, if I'd like to married with Jay and have kids. And yet I wasn't married yet we were just together with a bunch of kids. And I was satisfied with that. But then I keep remembering this wolf and and I don't, I think there's a lot more to it than that. 
COUNSELOR: A lot more to the wolf?
PATIENT: No a lot more to my dream than just a dream about Jay and me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah oh I see yeah.
PATIENT: And and the connection with kids because there's that wolf.
COUNSELOR: Yeah what's the wolf doing in there?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know. It's something I'm afraid of. And it happened it was like something I was afraid of would happen but it happened. Like I was afraid of it, I had an eerie feeling I was afraid and something did happen and I was afraid. I don't know. Do you understand what I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: No not quite no. 
PATIENT: It's like the wolf is something that I am afraid of, something that I'm afraid will happen. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but it's a familiar thing or something like it already happened. Is that what you saying?
PATIENT: No I'm saying that the wolf symbolizes something that I have been afraid of and I was afraid of it. I didn't really know what it was but I was afraid of it. 0:09:09.3
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And that which I was afraid of happened as in the appearance of the wolf.
COUNSELOR: I see like in the dream.
PATIENT: Yeah. That's the only thing I can think of but I can't figure what I would be afraid of. What I would be afraid of that that symbolizes.
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know maybe being alone.
(silence from 0:09:34.3 to 0:09:47.0)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: You were just going to say something about it.
PATIENT: I was just going to say something about that. I really don't know.
COUNSELOR: How would you start to tell the dream from the side of the wolf?
PATIENT: I mean like through his eyes?
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:10:14.4) to that. I wouldn't even know where to start. I really wouldn't. Well it's just...the only thing the only thing that really happens through his eyes, providing he is just a wolf and not a great spirit or something, is his instincts. What he sees. Like or what he senses. Like he may not have seen the dogs or the cat but he probably knew they were around. And he probably knew everybody else was around. Like all the children and everything. And probably from his standpoint he wasn't going to hurt anybody. Wolves don't you know really go around scaring people. I mean like, unless he was hungry and he was thinking about going after one of the two dogs or cat which is doubtful. He probably wouldn't have come, we had a car up there a station wagon. I often wondered from that dream how we got all those kids and all those dogs in that station wagon too. But, I mean like this wolf is not going to come near a house if it was inhabited with like cars sitting out in front of it. Unless he's like starving to death. 0:11:56.4
COUNSELOR: Why don't you try telling it like just like it was the dream and only, like like you really did dream it as if you were the wolf in the in the, what am I saying? Try saying it like, like it was the dream and in the dream you were the wolf. And like it doesn't have to be like realistically like wolves behave just like whatever it's almost almost like making up the dream on the spot. 
PATIENT: Yeah but you mean but would, should the wolf have the same role as he did in my dream?
COUNSELOR: It doesn't have to be exactly. 
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:12:56.2)
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: The only thing I can think of it's going to come out something like a Walt Disney movie. Hard to...um the dream - no that's alright just leave it there - the dream from the side of the wolf, could have been...the wolf, was walking around his territory. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah start at the go like, "I'm walking around my territory." 0:14:07.1
PATIENT: Alright alright. I'm walking around my terrain, which I am king, back in the - let's make it northern Maine - in northern Maine and unrealistically I have never seen people before. And I have seen this house because it's been sitting there for years. And all of the sudden today a strange thing happened. This thing with wheels, bunches of little animals on two feet inside of it came out. And, they had dogs and cats with them, some kind of relatives of mine and some kind of relatives of cat that lives next door. So I watched them, running around, not really doing anything, just playing. And, I watched them all day and most of the night. And, after it got dark I decided to go down and get a real close look. 
COUNSELOR: What did you think of them when you were watching them? 0:15:57.4
PATIENT: I thought they were kind of weird and very strange. They weren't really doing anything. They weren't hunting for food, and they weren't being watchful and careful as I would be with my cubs. They were just being silly. Not being careful at all as one must be in the woods - from his point of view or her point of view. And, they were very curious beings, animals. Which is the reason that I'd go ahead and get a better look. Didn't really trust them. I didn't really trust them because I didn't know them. But I didn't distrust them. He didn't distrust them because, she'd never seen people before and didn't know that they were very dangerous. He was just he was curious about them, wanted to know more about them.
COUNSELOR: I'm I'm curious about them. 0:17:31.0
PATIENT: I'm curious I'm curious...I'm curious about them, wanted to know more about them. So after dark I snuck down went down (inaudible at 0:17:43.3), to get a closer look. As on my way down I met some of their some of their animals some of the animals that were with them. I don't know (inaudible) anyway I met these two dogs and this cat outside. And they ran away so I followed them. I was just, I wanted to make friends, because I wanted to find out from them what those other animals were (inaudible). And, but they ran away so I followed them. I thought I'd make another friendly gesture. And, they ran up to the house which the other animals (inaudible) and so I thought I'd say hello instead of just, instead of just, thought I'd say hello instead of just walking up to them. Give them the (inaudible) that I was coming so they would know. So maybe maybe I scared because they didn't hear me coming. So I said hello, the only way I know how to say hello. And, things really started popping then. Fires were burning on the inside of the house. People were running around, the other animals were running around screaming and yelling. And, making all kinds of noises, coming outside, bigger ones were coming outside looking around. And making all kinds of noise and racket and yelling and stuff and I decided to just forget the whole thing I didn't really want to know that much about them.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
PATIENT: And I left. Which is what probably might happen. 
COUNSELOR: Which is what probably might happen? 0:20:32.9
PATIENT: Yeah. In the dream I left. Wolves are I don't know that much about wolves but basically wolves are, are not that much afraid of anything but they don't, like they say unless they're hungry or or really scared or like you got them backed up against the wall and they think they are going to have to fight to get away, they're just like any other animal. They don't really want to fight.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And unless you're endangering them someway or threatening them or they're hungry they'll just...
COUNSELOR: They'll just go on their way.
PATIENT: Yeah they'll just, just like a dog might just stand around watching you and you say, "Shoo or go away." 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And unless he's a mean dog or, you scare him or something he's just going to toddle on his way, depending on how big or small he is.
COUNSELOR: When I listen you to tell that version of the dream I, I don't know I was thinking about the wolf and I was thinking about, like to being on the outside looking in and it's there are all these people doing these peculiar things and you're not quite of the same species and you don't quite understand.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You try to make overtures and they don't, (inaudible at 0:22:04.8).
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible). I supposed maybe the wolf in my dream, can accept it like that. But, it could be that feeling of being alone coming back. Even though I'm with all these people I still have that feeling of being alone. I'm still afraid of being alone. And, maybe I really am even though I'm with all those people I'm still in the same boat. Even though I have like, you can't really be alone when there's kids around. 0:22:59.8
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You can be alone with a group of grown-ups or a group of adults or older people. But you can't really be alone when there's kids around. I mean when you're playing with kids you can't be alone.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. That's reminds me when you were telling me I was thinking also like if there's something childlike about it too. About...I don't know about the part of you that's the wolf or something it was kind of childlike. 
PATIENT: Yeah, that might be. Well, I think animals are sort of, I don't know in their basic approach to other animals in their environment they have all the instincts and skills and everything but they're still like inquisitive. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And they're like, cats no matter how old they get will still play with things. And bat things around. Like a cat plays with a mouse or something.
COUNSELOR: yeah.
PATIENT: And, they're all they have these instincts and basic fears, you know tell them instincts tells them these are good and bad. They're still curious which was which was what I would assume to be an animal's approach to people who hadn't seen them before would be no fear. It would just be amused (inaudible at 0:24:38.3) until he finds out that people can be very dangerous. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah. 
PATIENT: Not into, not in themselves so much as in their things that they bring with them like guns and stuff like that, and pollution and other things. I don't really know. I really got depressed last week. It was a whole bunch of [zing gobs] (ph) of self-pity, was what it was. But, I don't know if, I guess in my mind - Alicia called me up, one night wanted to know if I wanted to go out.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:25:27.0
PATIENT: And we went out and we had just the two of us, (inaudible at 0:25:30.9) and just talking together. Most of the time it was just the two of us talking. And we weren't in the place that we usually go to which is so loud you can't talk to anybody but you, it's just a jukebox but the man who owns it you tell him, "You can turn the jukebox down about four decibels. Everybody can still hear the music fine. People can still dance to the music fine and they can hear each other talk to." But the minute like on a busy night say a Friday night, it's nice and quite and comfortable in there till about 10:00 o'clock which is when what time people start coming in. At 10:00 o'clock he turns that jukebox up so you can't hear yourself think. But this...
COUNSELOR: Went to a different place?
PATIENT: Yeah, we to Bubba Jone's in Albany. And, it was a very pleasant atmosphere. And we I had a very enjoyable evening just talking to her. And, as far as everything else is going things are going pretty well as far as my friends are going and everything like that. We're doing, doing pretty good. But, I think more than having girlfriends that call me up, which I really enjoy having them around.
COUNSELOR: Yeah well that was the next thing that she called you.
PATIENT: Right yeah she called you and me want to go out. Great. And, so, I think basically when my, having even friends I can have 10 (inaudible) girlfriends who call me up and we did stuff all together all the time and I still would get this feeling of insecurity in me because I think my mind I have got security per se associated with men. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And, Jay is being peculiar again. I never know really where I stand with him. You know I really don't know. Discussing, he just won't give you any kind of indications or signs or signals or anything. And, I don't know it's just like I decided that, he was over playing cards one night and after he left I said, "I better give up on Jay."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean like, quit as my mother says don't hang my hopes on him. As for as for forever like getting married so that I wasn't hanging on him but I was hanging my hopes on him for having him around for awhile. learning to know him, just the practice of getting to know somebody. 0:28:33.1
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And for the companionship he would offer as far as male companionship. And, just learning I, to help me learn how to talk to men how to converse with them and be comfortable around them. Which I'm not. And, I thought he liked me and I, I thought we had we had we have a good time together. But, I just decided that this was folly. That I should like quit being so forward. Like instead of what he would do - before when he came in I'd get up and walk all the way across the room to go say hello to him. I decided what I'd do is, I would make an effort to say hello to him. If he walked in and walked past me I'd say hello. And I'd talk to him I mean I'm not going to sit there and not talk to him or something like that. Start conversations and stuff like that but I'm not going to go out of my way to do these things anymore. I mean I'm not going to like the minute he gets up come say walk up and jump walk all the way across the room and say hello to him make a point of it.
COUNSELOR: Not look so eager.
PATIENT: Right. And, I'm trying to (inaudible at 0:29:47.1) and not snobbish. It's about just when he walked in and we had a meeting, last Tuesday, and when he walked in and I didn't and I didn't get up and go say hello to him, I couldn't the minute he walked in because I was busy. I was I was doing something else. But after he walked in, not going over to say hello to him I felt kind of snobbish. I felt like, "Well this looks really kind of snooty."
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But at the same time I decided to go ahead and do that because I wasn't being snooty I mean I wasn't being snobbish and I wasn't being, you know? It's like...
COUNSELOR: It's like, "Dammit well why can't he do it sometimes?"
PATIENT: Right why can't I mean if he care anything about me he can make a point to come over and say hello to me when he's not busy. Or say hello when he walks in. And, we kind of walked around circles each other all evening and I'd say hello to him. Every time we'd like pass doing something - we were both of us fairly busy we didn't really have time to sit down and talk - I'd say hello. And I'd get a hello. And that's it. Just as if he were saying hello to someone he hardly even knew, knew their name and that's it. And, I wanted him to be like...
COUNSELOR: It feels like, it seemed kind of cold or something. 0:31:08.5
PATIENT: Right well he's got money problems right now that he says he's worrying about but I saw him talking to these two other girls that we both know. And he was talking to them and laughing and stuff but he could have come over and talked to me. Old jealousy there. But I had dual purpose for wanting him to talk to me. One of the reasons I wanted to talk me I just wanted to talk to him and the second reason was he helped me with my bowling and my bowling is frustrating me greatly, because I'm not doing very well. And I wanted him to, I didn't want him to take me bowling I just wanted him to come over some time when I bowling - I go up to my parent's house on the weekends and I go and play bowl - and I wanted him to come over and watch me bowl. And tell me what I'm doing wrong because he's an excellent bowler and he can, he sees things that you're doing wrong. Some bowlers are good bowlers and they can bowl themselves but they couldn't help anybody else but Jay is a fairly good teacher. And not that he could, he may not be able to tell me what I'm doing wrong, I mean how to correct it but he can tell me what I'm doing wrong. 
COUNSELOR: yeah.
PATIENT: My problem is not the, it's usually I don't know what I'm doing wrong. So I wanted to ask him if he could come but I can't just walk up and ask him if he could come. I thought, I did it anyway because he had not talked to me all evening. And this one guy I used to know, he was in the club before and dropped out for a little while and came back into the club. And we dated a couple of times and that's it. Basically we just talked to each other when we were free (ph). You know we were friends, that's about it. But I hadn't seen him around for a little while and he came in that night and spent the whole evening standing behind me wherever I was talking to me. And I thought, "Well I couldn't have worked this better if I'd planned it. Jay is going to get all kinds of jealous and everything." Well he noticed because it was I saw him looking but I don't think it had any kind of effect on him at all. Not only am I afraid it didn't have an effect I'm afraid it had an adverse effect. Like he'd think, "Well she's got somebody else I'll just go (inaudible at 0:33:16.5)". And, if he's willing to give up that easy I really don't want him in the first place, theoretically.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: Theoretically. But, I don't know he's just...
COUNSELOR: Like you ought to feel you deserve better than that dammit.
PATIENT: Right yeah.
COUNSELOR: Gut you just kind of want him anyway. 0:33:48.1
PATIENT: Right yeah. But no I like Jay see this is my problem. I'm not in love with him or anything like that. But I like him and, I think he'd make a great friend. Someone I could, someone I could really talk to because if I had problems and I needed like a man to talk to you about my problems somebody you know a male angle on it, I really would trust his judgment and his ideas. And, I don't know I just don't know how to go about like establishing this kind of a friendship but nothing else. I supposed, unless he really gets mad which I doubt because I don't think Jay ever gets mad. He's got too stable reactions to things. I think we'll always be fairly good friends. I can always talk to him and stuff like that, and see him at club meetings and talk to him and stuff like that. But I would like to develop it into something a little more than just a friendship.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Something more close.
PATIENT: Right yeah something more closeness. And I can't, I can't make him jealous, and I can't make him mad. If he was mad at me because he thought I was being you know, if he thought I was being cold or whatever which is I'm afraid I'm afraid if I do anything that's not normal he's going to think I'm mad. Not realizing that I'm that I'm just wanting him to come to me for a change. He's going to think, "Oh she's upset," or "Oh she's mad. I'm just going to stay away from her tonight." You know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And then I feeded the whole thing. And then I don't know whether he just doesn't care or whether he's decided that I'm mad and should stay away. So that's the risk that I run if I do anything out of the ordinary for me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like you can't do, you haven't got any room to maneuver. 0:35:49.3
PATIENT: Right. It's like he's going to think, "Oh she's mad I'm just going to stay away from her." And, I don't know, I suppose I've probably brought a lot of this on myself because of the way I am. I mean like, I just do things like that I just like go out of my way. I'm always, I enjoy doing things like that but I decided I was going to be, just be cool is what I thought I was going to be. And, I don't know it just didn't work. Because I like I like to do things. I mean it's really hard for me to stop like from getting up and going to talk to him and stuff like that. Or, last Sunday we were at a meeting, last Sunday we had a meeting at Lynn's house it was kind of a workshop for all the officers to do different things we had to do and got a bunch of letters sent out for the club and stuff like that. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:36:52.4).
PATIENT: And, we, and so I got there and Jay everybody said hello and I said hello to everybody and I was just hanging out and everything. Jay didn't hear a peep out of him. Got a little, listing for his voice no "Hi Barb" you know just kind of ignoring me. And then I was painting posters and Josie wanted me to paint one more and Jay had finished his work and didn't have anything to do right then and he does good, he's kind of an inspiring artist and he does real good work so I thought, "Well, I don't really want to do a whole other poster. Jay is sitting there without anything to do, why don't I ask Jay if he'll do it for me." And I said, "Jay..." fine he'd do it and we were talking while he was doing the poster. We were having a pleasant conversation and everything and it's just like but why won't he say hello to me. It's like all I could do was walk over and say hello to him and start the whole thing. We're good friends and we'll have a pleasant conversation and everything else.
COUNSELOR: It's so frustrating that no matter what you do you can't get that out of him. 0:38:01.0
PATIENT: Um hmm. And, so, I don't know it's just it was just like we were, and the whole thing I mean like I, it was a workshop right so we're not supposed to sit around and make-out or anything we were supposed to be working and stuff like that. But I kind of felt like, if there were two people that were going together and everybody assumes that we're going together if they were doing something even like at a workshop or something like that they'd be like, this is my idea but they'd probably be sitting together and helping each other and talking to each other occasionally while they're working or something like that. But like part of the time I was typing and he was doing something else so I really couldn't be, we couldn't be together all the time. But I thought there should have been some more feeling then just like we were just people who knew each other and were just barely friends or something like that from the club. Which is what it was like.
COUNSELOR: Just like almost like you were two people who happened to be in the same club and that was all.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Like there was no connection between you.
PATIENT: Right that's the way it was. That's the way I felt about it. And, I was going to be cool again this time. I was going to be just, I caught myself doing things like, well I was going for coffee and I can carry - the kind of cups that Lynn has I can carry three or four at a time - and so I was, I asked Jay, "You want some coffee?" He said, "Yes" and I, couple of other people. And so I gave these other people their coffees, but Jay likes cream in his so I went over and I put cream in it just the way he likes it and then I gave it to him. Instead of just giving it to him and letting him get his own cream. Well that's not too bad though there's nothing really wrong with that. Later on that day, something that, something, he had he got some coffee I was going in for coffee I was getting some for a couple other people and he was going in and was getting some for a couple other people and, - Josie has a bunch of Great Dane puppies. And the kitchen is here and the living room is here and there's a sliding in between, a real small door. And they've got a board sitting the door and you got to step over the door. Jay has got one bad leg he can't bend his knee, very much more than maybe like that. And so he's got two cups two cups of coffee in his hand trying to step over this thing, so I delivered my coffee and I went over and I took one of them from him so he could get over. And I gave it to Alicia and he set his coffee down on this table and about five minutes later I noticed it was still sitting there and it didn't have any cream in it. And just before I could catch myself, I went I looked creamer was empty so I went to the kitchen, I got some cream put in the creamer thing, put the cream in his coffee and looked around for spoon to stir it up. And, and just went to back to what I was doing and all of the sudden I realized, "Well that was kind of dumb." But it really wasn't dumb, I mean there's nothing wrong with it. I did get to feeling bad, that you're not when you do somebody a favor something like that you just do it you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:41:05.7
PATIENT: I just do things like that, and you're supposed to just do them. But I'm always doing things like that for Jay and I just all of the sudden realized you don't do it so somebody will say thank you, you just do it. But, I get to thinking he never says thank you when I do something like that. Like he doesn't even notice, or he just expects people to do things like that and woman to do things like that his women or something like that I don't know. And I got to feeling kind of bad about it. Like, like he never says thank you. and I don't do it for thanks so much but, every once in a while it's nice to know that a quiet thank you or thanks or something like that or even a smile, you just feel you're being appreciated for your efforts. Even though...
COUNSELOR: You get so mad at yourself for keeping on making the effort even though you know you're not going to get any appreciation.
PATIENT: Right and you know, the idea of doing something like that is not is to do it to be nice and not really for the appreciation but still, every once in a while...
COUNSELOR: Well it makes you feel bad not to get it.
PATIENT: Right. You shouldn't be looking for it but every once, you shouldn't be doing it all the time just for that but every once in a while, an acknowledgement that, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: That even that you've done something for them whether it's because a relationship like us or just a relationship like if I did something like, if I did something like that for Alicia or anybody else just to do it, if I like went and got a whole bunch of people coffee and fixed all of them for them I'd get a thank you. But not from Jay. And, this is the kind of thing that frustrates me and I think I'm being stupid because he doesn't really care. And I get the feeling maybe the reason he is ignoring me is this is the since we are thrown together so much because we're in so many things, maybe this is the way he has of telling me, "Leave me alone."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Maybe it's not just his habit or something but it is really expressing, that he really doesn't care about you or doesn't want you. 0:43:14.1
PATIENT: Right. And, like maybe when I don't talk to him at the three he's just taking advantage of the situation and he's not going to start something that unless I start it he's just going to leave me alone. And, on the other hand it could just be his personality. And I really don't know. Like, what to do short of just walking up and asking him, "Jay do you hate me?" But this is one of the reasons I was depressed, when I was, the other night. When was it? Thursday (inaudible) I was really depressed.
COUNSELOR: Feeling that you might as well give it up?
PATIENT: Yeah well I was depressed because again I was in a situation of not having any male companionship and I'm getting tired of not having any male companionship. I'm I really feel like a like a, a dud. Because I'm, especially in the female world, especially in most female worlds. You're your, I don't know, I'm one of the measures of how much of a person you are and how (inaudible at 0:44:29.4). It's just not how many men you have many men you have or if you have one in fact, that you can call your own. But...
COUNSELOR: So it makes, it leaves you without any status even with woman.
PATIENT: Right yeah, no status with women at all. Because when women, especially the girls that I know when we get together, we talk about men. And if you have no one to talk about, I've got one to talk about though I can at least, if nothing else I can complain about my problems with Jay. It's gives me some status. Got a relationship that I'm having problems with, but I got one. But, I don't know it just, it's very frustrating, it really is. And, I think part of the reason I was so depressed I was really super depressed, but part of the reason was probably the fact that I didn't I had miscounted, thought I had another week but my period started last Friday. And last Thursday was the night I was the night I was really depressed. So I think that had a lot to do with it too. I was feeling sorry for myself and tendency to become more deponent when I'm...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well I guess a lot of what you're depressed about was that he probably doesn't really care for you (inaudible at 0:46:02.2).
PATIENT: Probably really doesn't, except maybe as a friend.
COUNSELOR: Not as a woman. 0:46:10.5
PATIENT: Right. That seems to be my problem all of my life. I can have all kinds of friends, and then, I used to have more buddies than anybody I knew. Buddies that would even call me up on the phone. Guys would call me on the phone and we'd talk, about their problems with their girlfriends. But they were buddies, we did stuff together. And I had some buddies that, they never really went with any one girl. They'd have a date and they'd go out when something was big. Mostly they just liked to go to parties and stuff like that with the boys, and I was one of the boys, for three years. The first year, one of the nice thing about it was like I only, in my life I've had one friend who would make a point to make sure that I knew about all the things that were going on and if I didn't have a ride he'd come and get me. And this was a guy it wasn't a girl who would invite me to everything that was going on and tell me about it if I didn't know make sure I knew about all the things that were happening. And make sure I went. And if I didn't, couldn't go by myself he'd come and get me. And his name was Ashby Thompson. And we were just friends. I had gone with his older brother for a while, but we were we were really good friends. And I used to go out with these four guys and we used to go out to all the parties and all everything we went to it was the four five of us. And the first year I was just like one of the boys. My second, the summer between my freshman and sophomore year at college things changed a little bit. They'd come and get me and instead of pulling up and honking I'd have all four of them to come to the door and get me, which was nice. And they'd come in and chat with my father and, part of it (inaudible) was the fact that they had met my parents and most of my friends like my parents. They enjoy talking to them and everything. And, and they'd and then when I, we'd go someplace I didn't take my own coat off. Somebody helped me with my coat, somebody would like my cigarette somebody would pull chairs out for me, one of four guys. And I got to kiss them all goodnight when I went home. This was a ritual between us. And I really enjoyed that because although I was still one of the guys which is something I really enjoy yet I was a girl and I was being treated like a girl. 0:48:39.2
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And, so I had a lot of fun with that. But that's the only friend I had. But I've always had lots of buddies, who I would know them through classes. Because I had, I took like Physics and I was the only girl in the class and I was good friends with all these guys. We'd, they'd we'd talk about like stuff to do with the school and stuff like that and if they were having a particularly bad problem with one of their girlfriends they didn't understand why she was doing this, they'd come to me, which was nice. And, I usually part of it I usually was on their side because I knew them. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah they were your friends.
PATIENT: Girls can be so nasty and mean and everything and maybe these girls had never been particularly nice to me but the guys had. I had nothing in common with the girls like I did with the guys so I usually, I usually was on their side. And yet I had the feminine attitude. I could look at it from their point of view so I could, I could usually give them a pretty good idea about what was happening and what to do about it. Or some advice anyway, so they wouldn't be so confused. But I've always had friends with guys but I've never really, for so long I was a, always was a buddy. I was a buddy to all the guys I knew. And now I miss that. I think probably that's a lot one thing that really depresses me is the fact that I haven't got any buddies anymore either. Because now the way I treated my buddies, I'd call these guys up and if somebody didn't know how I felt about the guys they'd think I was chasing these guys. But I knew how I felt about the guys and the guys knew how I felt about them. But now that, my problem became later on if I found a guy that I just wanted to be friends with, that's it just friends and just have a friendship relationship with them...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: If I do things like make advances to talk to them and to call them on the phone and plan different things something like that with them and other people they'd think I was chasing them. They get to that point when they get older that they just, they know they think every woman who make, makes ovations toward them in any kind of way is after them. And, I don't know they'd get marriage fever or they'd get very, they have these great ideas about themselves or what I don't really know what it is, but you can't really do that anymore. 
COUNSELOR: And so that leaves you not able to have buddies because you, the kinds of things that you used to do. 0:51:21.6
PATIENT: Yeah, but, I don't know I think I could be friends with Jay but I don't know I was just depressed because I, I don't have, I just, I don't know I feel so...dumb. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah nothing yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't have a word for it either but that's how I feel. And I was, I don't know. Meg is moving out on me, this weekend. She finally found an apartment and someone to help her share expenses out where she's works. Which is going to be something I'm going to miss because I used to always call her up on the phone. But she's been a big help and just someone I can talk to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah I know. 
PATIENT: Because she's the first person I could talk to that would listen. And, the lady that's moving in I'm going, the lady that's moving in with me is a lady from work, whose house just burned down and she needs some place to live for a while. Meg is moving out and, she's going to move in with me a little after the 15 and live until my lease is up May 1st. That gives her some time to get her feet on the ground. And she'll be close to work and everything she works at the University. But, she is going to be a real chore I think. She still, her house flooded in March and she's, I saw her yesterday for a couple of minutes and she's sick. She's got bronchitis and a bunch of other things. This just completely took every thing out she lost everything she owned, first of all. She had lots of keepsake and mementos from, her husband is dead, so from her husband and when her son was young, from her mother and her grandmother and her great aunt. Things that were really precious to her and, she lost all of these. She lost everything she owned. The only thing that they, that she retrieved is she went looking through the mess and there was this metal can, inside the metal can there was a bunch of junk, jewelry she had and her mother's her grandmother's watch. Her grandmother's watch was like it was one of the first watches made in America or something it was made in like 1860 or something like that. And it's the only thing she has left. And, she took a lot of pride in her mementos. Not that she lived for them but I mean she took a lot of pride in them. 
COUNSELOR: She really...yeah. 0:54:17.3
PATIENT: And she's left with nothing. The only thing she had left is the clothes she had on her back when she was, when she left the house that day, and her car, which was, wasn't effected by the fire. And, she going to be going, she's probably going to get really depressed and I don't think I'm going to have a good (inaudible) on my hands but she really needs some place to stay and I, and I needed a roommate and I really didn't know anybody else who was looking for an apartment. I didn't want to have to go through the problem of putting around notices and having people come and, because I mean like for two for two months it really doesn't matter that much who you live with. But I mean I don't know I don't know how to tell somebody how somebody comes to be your, see about being your roommate and everything I wouldn't know how to tell them, "Well gee I just don't think we'd get along.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: For, I'd be afraid of hurting somebody's feelings. Again I don't want to live with somebody I don't want to live with. So this works out great. Because it's going to be like having my mother around. I'm going around thinking, take it that I leave the apartment, - like the bathroom floor could use it's not that dirty it's not really in bad shape but it wouldn't hurt it if it was washed - so I'm thinking, "Well now when am I going to get around to doing that?" With Meg I didn't worry about it. It's like having my mother I'm going to have to make my bed everyday. Not that not that she would really care I don't think.
COUNSELOR: But you're going to still feel like maybe she would. 
PATIENT: Yeah I'm going to have to start washing dishes every day, instead of every other night. I'm going to have to start cooking well balanced meals and things like this. One of the nice things about it maybe I can get her to cook. 
COUNSELOR: That's you're going to loose Meg you're going to loose the way she listened to you and the way she was a help.
PATIENT: Right. Because I don't think Rory will be that much help. Rory is a real nice lady and everything, she'd be up for like, I mean like we could like go over to Pat's and have a beer. She likes to do things like that. That's one of the great things about my mom. My mom is willing to do things like that too. But she's going to be depressed. And, I'm not going to be that much help so much because I'm gone a lot. Like on the weekends I go out to the suburbs and, Monday nights I bowl and usually Tuesdays night and Thursday nights I visit with the club. I'm going to start be taking scuba lessons soon. I'm so excited about that. I figure one of the things I'm trying to do is get myself so involved, that I really haven't got time to sit at home.
COUNSELOR: Yeah sit and home and be depressed. 0:57:17.7
PATIENT: Right yeah. Like I'm taking this I mean this ski thing I'm on the membership committee and I've got things I have to do for this. I've got to take start taking scuba lessons. As soon as the ski season is over, then I'm going to have scuba things to do. And go on scuba things, scuba dives and things. And I'm going to be teaching swimming this summer to well if they if they come up with it for the anybody in the club who wants to learn how to swim. I'm teaching I'm teaching swimming and scuba diving I mean and water skiing, for people who want to learn how to do that. So that will keep my busy this summer. I want to loose some weight so I can get in my swimming suit and look halfway decent. I just can't get started on a diet yet. But I was thinking about this weekend about how about how I can work myself out of being so inside myself and not being able to relax and just enjoy myself with that. And I still haven't come up with anything. I think this might help but I really, I've been thinking about what I can do, I mean like what kind of mental attitude I can take. Just force it on myself some kind of a mental attitude, to get outside of myself. And I can't even come up with anything.
COUNSELOR: Do you mean to get out of feeling depressed and like you're a dud?
PATIENT: Yeah but to just to quit thinking about me altogether.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just to...
COUNSELOR: Think about the things you're doing and the people that you're seeing and stuff.
PATIENT: Right and just try to enjoy myself for me. And not worry about...
COUNSELOR: Not sort of be watching yourself and thinking about like, "Am I doing alright? Am I good enough?"
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know I've been thinking maybe that might help. Just enjoy myself the way I am. And not worry about it. I, just relax. And, I tell myself now just relax, enjoy yourself have a good time. 
COUNSELOR: You carry yourself in a good strong voice but it doesn't work.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I thought maybe I could, I'm always conscious, well not always but most of the time conscious of what I'm doing. And once in a while I'll get, slip into the habit of like I'm talking and I'll start just rattling on talking not saying much. I catch myself doing that and then I'll shut up and get away from myself sometimes. But I'm always watching to make sure that I'm not doing anything that I that I object to, that I do. And, I just can't relax and have a good time and enjoy myself. Or enjoy what I'm doing. 1:00:25.2
COUNSELOR: Sort of like you have to keep checking up on yourself to make sure to make sure you don't talk to much, to make sure you're not overbearing.
PATIENT: Because if I don't, if I don't check on these things...
COUNSELOR: You'll just sort of...
PATIENT: I just go...
COUNSELOR: ...go on and on and on. But in a sense you need to be self-conscious.
PATIENT: Oh yes right. But I mean I need to be I'm too self-conscious about other things. I sit there, I don't know I'm just...
COUNSELOR: I think I see what you mean. Like it's one thing to watch your behavior and it's another thing to be sort of worrying about how people are reacting to you and sort of worrying about things you can't help.
PATIENT: Right. Wondering what I can do, worrying about how people are reacting to me wondering why it is people react to me what things they do, I watch people reacting at me. trying to figure out, "Now why is it all these people all react to me the same way and I don't want them to react that way to me." I want them to find something interesting in me. What are they looking for? Can I give them, give them anything they'd be interested in having? Any kind of anything. And I really can't and I know this. I think I know that I really don't have that much anything special I know this because the fact that this is the idea that I get from other people that I talk to. The emanation the vibrations or whatever that I get from other people because their reaction to me. I really have nothing special to offer them that's going to enhance or increase their white (ph) lives in any way or their personalities or anything else. And I figure, "Nah I've got to have something I just haven't found it yet." I don't know where to start. And I've been thinking about it more and more. But objectively not dejectively, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 1:02:38.0
PATIENT: I've been trying to be real objective about it. And watching myself in situations like listening to what I say and what kind of conversations I get into. And, I don't really offer anything special but I don't know, Alicia makes impressions about people pretty fast, they really like her fast. Now as far as her conversation Alicia doesn't leave any lasting impressions on anybody either. I mean, she has some intelligent things to say but most of the conversations that she gets into with other people that I listen to...
COUNSELOR: But she doesn't say that.
PATIENT: No she just they just don't come up. It's just talk just chit-chat stuff. And, she, I don't know what it is, I maybe it's because she bubbles. Sort of she just kind of happy and everything. And even though I'm happy and I, I smile a lot I guess maybe my eyes don't smile or something or I just doing bubble about or something.
COUNSELOR: There's some kind of spark that she has that you don't.
PATIENT: Yes. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Actually I have to quit.
PATIENT: Oh okay.
COUNSELOR: We're going to do the second one in the afternoon next.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Is 4:30 on Friday alright?
PATIENT: Right. Not always though.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Because the weekends I go on my ski trip I can't.
COUNSELOR: Right. 
END TRANSCRIPT
