Five Approaches to Linda: Session Four, Reality Therapy and Choice Theory
FIVE APPROACHES TO LINDA
SESSION 4
INTRODUCTION
The unique aspect to this program involving inclusion of an actress who portrayed the role of the patient with the same problem each day at the five day presentation.  Students and participants obtained the first hand view of how each individual theorist dealt from their own prospective with the patient and her particular problems.  The case of Linda was developed to be a fixed role for this particular presentation.  Any deviation that occurs during the course of her sessions with these various therapists, occurred as a result of what the particular therapist chose to focus on as they facilitated the sessions, as opposed to any deliberate deviation by the actress herself.
The following session features Therapist #4, who is using Realty Therapy and Choice Theory.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hello.
THERAPIST: Okay, Linda.  You, ah, made the appointment to see me.  You'd have to  tell me what's on your mind.  I'd like to hear.
CLIENT: Well, (sighs) Dr. Glasser, my husband and I, ahh, are at a point of our marriage, where we don't really communicate very well.  We don't really have a lot in common.
THERAPIST: Did you, one time, have a lot in common?  Or is it diminishing or is it never been very much in common?
CLIENT: (sighs). Oh, of course, we have something in common when we first met.  Ahh... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: No.  I mean, how long did you have not much in common?  You said “at a point”… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Well… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …when did the point come?
CLIENT: When we first met, we got along very well.  We had the same sort of interests and ah we could talk and that sort of thing.  But I—I think the more involved I became in my work, uhmmm, I guess really the farther away, we, we became.
THERAPIST: So, where would you say the point came?  Is it like recently or is it been a year or two years… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uhmmm, I would say, I would say, actually it—it really started getting very bad when my father became ill.
THERAPIST: Hmmm.
CLIENT: My father has lung cancer.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.  And when did that happen?
CLIENT: He was diagnosed about a year ago.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Okay.
CLIENT: And the—it's become a major problem really since then, between my husband and I.
THERAPIST: You mean, your father has become a major problem?
CLIENT: My husband and I—and me—our problem has really become very serious since we found out about my father's death—ahh… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Lung cancer.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Your father is still alive?
CLIENT: Yes, he is.
THERAPIST: I see.  I'm curious, how has your father's illness kind of some way or another (ph) affected your marriage?
CLIENT: Well, (sighs) my father and I were not very close—growing up.  And ahh, my mother passed away when I was a young teenager.  And I guess, really, finding all about my father's, ahh, illness and—ahh, that is terminal (sighs) has brought back a lot of very sad and unhappy memories about my mother.  How I felt when my mother died.
THERAPIST: You, you think that your problem is related to what happened years ago?
CLIENT: With my mother?
THERAPIST: Well, your mother died years ago.
CLIENT: I have no idea.  I don't know.  I think, I think, the way I may have viewed this is that my, my mother was 45 when she died.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: I'm 45 right now.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.


CLIENT: Ahh, my father really is not gonna hold out longer to live.
THERAPIST: That he's an old man?
CLIENT: Yes.  Uhmm, I feel that I, I need to get more out of my life, especially now, ahh, with relationships, primarily my family, my new family and for myself.  I want more out of life.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.  You're dissatisfied?
CLIENT: Very.  Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And you're unhappy?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And you have ahh not such good relationship with your husband?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Well, tell me.  What's good in your life right now?  There are some good things, I presume.
CLIENT: Well, my health is good. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Okay.  That's good.
CLIENT: Ahh.  We have a fairly nice little house, and ahh… (crosstalk)


THERAPIST: Financially, are you reasonably okay… (crosstalk)


CLIENT: Reasonably okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: (sighs).  Could've a little more, but… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Could've a little less, too.
CLIENT: True.  And ahh, I have two sons.  One is a sophomore in college and the other is a senior in high school.  And they're both doing very well.
THERAPIST: And the kids are not a big source of worry?
CLIENT: Oh, well, actually the children and I are not very close.  Ahh, they are really closer with my husband.
THERAPIST: Uhmm.
CLIENT: And I guess because he's a, he's a landscaper (inaudible 00:04:37)and ahh, he's always spent more time with them because he's been home more than I.
THERAPIST: And they may have even dined out and worked with them when they're growing up a little bit.  So… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: They possibly might have… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: … helped a little.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum. (sighs).  So do you want to be closer to your children?
CLIENT: I would like to.  I, I really don't know how to do that.  I felt at this stage… 
THERAPIST: Yeah, if you knew how to do it, you wouldn't be here, right?
CLIENT: I think that's probably true.
THERAPIST: (laughs).  When the people knew how to live their lives, they wouldn't go and see a psychiatrist.  So, tell me what you would be if you were happy.  If you could kind of depict in your head of a happy life for you right now.
CLIENT: (sighs).  How would my life be right now if I were totally happy?  Could be… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What would be going on in your life?  Well, not totally happy unless you get carried away.  But, but a lot happier than you are now.
CLIENT: Well, I would have a very close relationship with my husband.  We would be able to talk and have some kinds of interest, ahh, do some traveling, and ahh, he would be more affectionate… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: …Ahh, more attentive.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum. (sighs)
CLIENT: I guess my boys would call home and ask to speak to me instead of, "Hi, Mom!  Can I talk to Dad?"
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: Uhmm… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: There are two things certainly would help them.
CLIENT: Well.  Yeah.  I think that would make me feel that somebody cares.
THERAPIST: Do you have any other relationship in mind beside your husband.  Are you like seeing another guy or thinkin' about another guy, or any of that stuff?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Nothing like that at all.  How about your husband?
CLIENT: I really don't know.  Ahh.  I—I… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I mean, if you knew you would tell me, but you have no… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Absolutely, I would tell… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …you have no indication that he has lost interest in you for another woman or anything like that?
CLIENT: Ahh.  He seems to have lost interest in me, but I don't know—I don't know if that's the case if there's another woman or if there's something wrong with me.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.  Usually when a man loses interest in a woman, he loses interest in her sexually.  Has that happened?
CLIENT: Uh-hum.
THERAPIST: He doesn't approach you much anymore?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: How often do you have sex—well, let's put it this way.  When did you last time have sex with your husband? 


CLIENT: (sighs)
THERAPIST: I know, you don't have to give me the exact date.
CLIENT: I would say roughly four months ago.
THERAPIST: Okay.  And you're 45 years old and you're healthy and you don't have any ovarian problem or is there anything like that?  Did you ever enjoy sex with your husband?
CLIENT: (sighs).  I suppose you could call it “enjoy”.  You know, I never was—that was never an important issue to me.  You know, it was something that was just—that happened and…  It was just never an important issue.  So, yeah.  Uhh… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, did you ever enjoy sex with anybody (inaudible 00:07:25) is your husband the only one you slept with?
CLIENT: Yes.  He's the only one.
THERAPIST: Okay.  That's interesting.  You're kind of a nice-looking woman.  It's—it's not even an important issue.  Didn't your husband used to be kind of attracted to you somewhat because you are a nice-looking woman?
CLIENT: Well, I hope so.  I, I would hope you think, to think I was nice-looking.
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.  I mean, if we could interview him like 20 years ago and said, "Is Linda nice-looking woman?", he probably would have say, "Yes", right?
CLIENT: I would hope so.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  And so—alright.  Well, is it that you've now crossed sex out of your life?  That's it?  No more sex?
CLIENT: It isn't that I've crossed it out of my mind.  What am I supposed to do about it?  Could—you know… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You can do as much about it as he could.  I mean, there's two people.
CLIENT: I'm not going to—ahh, look elsewhere and ahh… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: No, no… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: …Actually, it's not anything I really thought about.  I don't think about sex.  There's—there's a… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You must be one of the few people (inaudible 00:08:23) you don't know.
CLIENT: And that's the truth. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Oh, I can't believe you.  But it's beyond, you know… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Well, maybe—and you know what?  Maybe you're right?  Maybe I'm just—maybe I'm not being honest with myself.
THERAPIST: Oh, maybe you're blighting (ph) out, but it's so unsatisfactory.  That's a perfectly normal thing.
CLIENT: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  I mean, there was a time when I thought about it.  Of course, a lot.  Because I wondered why, why aren't we having sex more often?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: B-but uhm, there comes a time when ah, when, I mean, I'm not gonna look for sex outside of my marriage… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.  That's fine.
CLIENT: …And ahh, if ahh, he's not interested, you know, that I don't have many sex… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: How do you know he's not interested?  Has he told you, "Linda, I'm not interested in sex.”
CLIENT: Well, would you believe?  Ahh.  Since in a couple of arguments, he has said that.
THERAPIST: Oh, during the height of an argument, huh?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: (sighs).  How about—do you ever have time as when you're not arguing or you're kinda just sitting around reasonably comfortable with each other?
CLIENT: In kinda like the neutral?
THERAPIST: Yeah… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah.  Reluctant.  A lot.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  You're not against him.  And therefore, you just sit there and (inaudible 00:09:32) watching a TV program and not hassling each other?  You know, fight everyday, do you?
CLIENT: No.  We don't fight everyday.  We, We don't have really a lot to say or… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I get the feeling that… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: …you know… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …fighting is not really what's going on here.  It's more like you're just drifting apart.
CLIENT: Absolutely.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Absolutely.  And ahh, I would like to, I would like to have a stronger marriage.  You know, together.  I would like to… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, a stronger marriage got to mean stronger sex.  It just ain't any other way.
CLIENT: Is that the whole glue?
THERAPIST: No.  But it's a big part of the glue.  That there's a glue part, it's half the part.  I mean, unless you're, you know, got some kind of a hormonal problem or something or you've got pain when sex—that you remember that you're being terribly in pain or you remember it's just being unsatisfying?
CLIENT: I wouldn't say that I was unsatisfied.  Did you mean that I ever reach an orgasm?
THERAPIST: Well, I guess you could (inaudible 00:10:34)… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I've had.  Yeah.  So I, I… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: So, you know what that is? (crosstalk)
CLIENT: …but as far as that's suffi—and you know, mentally, I don't know that I'm satisfied… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I know you're not?  You're obviously not.  You know, I mean… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I'm not mentally satisfied with how li (ph)—with anything in my life right now.
THERAPIST: I know.  But we can't focus on anything in your life.  We'll waste your time and your money.  We have to focus on some things that you can do something about.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And he shows no sign of walking out the door... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …or in various kind of form?  He's providing a living reasonably?  You have the job you just mentioned before and so ahh, as I listen to it, I heard more problems between you and your husband.  If—let's say, you and your husband were getting along great, the amount of difficulty you have with your sons would probably not be registering as high as it is now, I would think?
CLIENT: I think that's true.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, why waste our time?  So talk about your mother and your father.  It's got very little to do with the thing in you (ph).  (inaudible 00:11:38) you're in a tough marriage right now and you're a normal person and you want a better one (ph)?
CLIENT: Well, there's another issue?
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Uhmm, uhmm.  My father is uhh—not very, in a very good stage right now of his illness.  And the thing really is I don't really care.  You see.
THERAPIST: You don't love your father that much?
CLIENT: No.


THERAPIST: But you, you just don't like to see him uncomfortable, I suppose?.
CLIENT: Well, I feel like it's really, it's my duty since there is no one else, it's my duty to make sure that he's taken care of.
THERAPIST: How much duty do you put in to that duty?  I mean, how much time do you spend with him?  Does he live with you?  Is he out… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No.  Uhh.  He's—well, he has his own place, but he has a—which is close to where we live.  But ahh, a nurse comes in and… (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: Is he poor or has he got fairly got some dough?
CLIENT: Got some dough.
THERAPIST: Money.  I mean, I mean… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I know, I know what you mean… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …What I mean is, could he afford to have the nurse or whoever comes in?
CLIENT: Yes.  He has his insurance but we're not uhmm—all that business takes care of that for him.  But that's he is going to have to go into a nursing home then.
THERAPIST: Or some home where they deal with hospice or something…(crosstalk) like that?
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: …like that?(/p&gt;


CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  So what's wrong with that?  How old is he... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Well… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …about 76?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  Exactly.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: How did you know?  That's very good.
THERAPIST: Psychiatrists are also a psychic, you know.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.  (laughing)
THERAPIST: So what are you gonna do about your father?  Let's dispose (ph) of that quickly.
CLIENT: Well, another issue in my mind… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: …is uhh, as much as I hate to have to say anything nice to the man… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: …I feel a personal responsibility to ahh, see that his last weeks, days, there's some kindness showed to him.
THERAPIST: By whom?
CLIENT: Well, I guess it would have to be me since my brothers aren't around and… (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, tell me what a kindness would be so I understand?
CLIENT: Well, just being nice to him.  And that's very hard for me to do because he was so efficient (ph) and nice (ph) - (crosstalk) 
THERAPIST: Okay.  Your father wasn't a great guy.  That's not gonna change.  It's over.  The way he was, he was.  He's now sick.  You weren't the cause of his illness, I presume.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Some of too much or something like that?
CLIENT: He's a smoker.
THERAPIST: And now, he's gone.  He's had reasonable medical care.  You didn't prevent him from going to the doctor or anything?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You don't stop the nurse from coming in?  And so, I'm wondering what you could do for him, aside feeling miserable about it?  How is that helping him?
CLIENT: Well, I don't know.  I don't know… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, that's what we're going to talk about.
CLIENT: Well, I don't know how it's—I just feel that I should say something to him.  I should… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Say what?
CLIENT: …do something.
THERAPIST: You're not going to tell him what a miserable guy he… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No, actually, I'd like to (ph).  That's not being fair and what good would it do?  Except… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.  I mean… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: …would have been in the long run… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: No.  I think that would be somewhat childish at this stage of the game.   That you should've done 30 years ago.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: Can't do. Thirty years ago has gone.  I'll tell you, yesterday has gone.  But is he making many demands upon you?
CLIENT: My father?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Now?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: No.  No.
THERAPIST: I would see he has some understanding of the fact that he wasn't the greatest guy in the world.  You'd probably appreciate a little bit (inaudible 00:15:10)?
CLIENT: Possibly.  It was… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Further, he's not an appreciative man… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: …from what you tell me… (crosstalk).
CLIENT: Not.
THERAPIST: …I mean—but, in whatever, he can't be—he's not like cursing you and saying you're the cause of his illness and… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: …asking you to stay with him 23 hours a day or anything like that?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Does he watch the TV?
CLIENT: I suppose that's what he does all day.
THERAPIST: What's the doctor say—How long has he got?
CLIENT: Probably two or three months.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, I don't want to spend much more time on your father.  Maybe a little bit, but I'll tell you, I pre—I think you're right in two or three months he's gonna be gone.  And you might feel a little guilty about not giving him enough in things like that, but that's the way it's gonna be.  What's your main concern?  He's gonna be gone.  You can cry (inaudible 00:16:01) at his funeral, if that would help.  Then do what you can.  (sighs)  Might happen.  We don't know.
CLIENT: Might happen.
THERAPIST: Maybe you could cry for your mother at his funeral.  Maybe that's what you could cry for… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I think she would cry at his funeral.
THERAPIST: So he was not great with her either.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.  We'll, he's—let's say (snapping fingers) move the clock ahead: three months, he's gone.  Was your marriage gonna be any better with him being gone?
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: I can see how it would be.  I mean, you'll be a little bit off that particular burden.  (sighs) So let's say he's gone.  Forget about your father ‘cause—let's say you're 45 and he's 76.  So you got about 31 more years if you do as well as him – which is quite possible.  What are you gonna do for the next 31 years, Linda?
CLIENT: That's exactly my concern.
THERAPIST: That's a reasonable concern to your life.
CLIENT: I guess, uhh, what I'm thinking is, is that I want to do with the next 30-some more (ph) years… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: …Uhh, is to have a good marriage… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: …be happy with my husband… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: …uhh, see the boys graduate from college, get married, have grandchildren… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: …That's what I would like to see.
THERAPIST: Nothing you're asking for is, you know, beyond the realms of possibility or anything.  It's reasonable.
CLIENT: Well, a lot of that depends on them.
THERAPIST: No.  It all depends on you.
CLIENT: How does that depend—how do my children, uhuh grandchildren—how's that depend on me?  I don't know if they'll ever get married.  I don't know that there… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Your happiness depends on you.  Of course, you can't control grandchildren.  You can't control your husband (ph) who (inaudible 00:17:55), you can control what you do.  And whatever it is, just from the way that you tell me, not working real well right now.
CLIENT: Right.  It isn't.  And what I do may not make a difference in his life to, to turn a lot to me (ph).
THERAPIST: Well, would have—might make a difference in yours.  I'm not saying it won't make a difference in his, but whatever you do, if it's somewhat different from what you're doing will either make your life better or worse, chances are.  And both of us, because I'm your psychiatrist that really—who wants to help you, chances—we, we're pushing for something better.
CLIENT: Uhmm.
THERAPIST: So what you said is you want a nice marriage with a good husband and maybe a little traveling.  That wasn't an excessive demand?  He's not a mean person, as he'd beat up the people who work for him.  Neither does he come home and beat you up and curse you out or anything like that?
CLIENT: No. Of course, not.
THERAPIST: Don't say “of course, not”.  A lot of husbands do.
CLIENT: Well, of course, they do.  I know they do.
THERAPIST: But your husband doesn't?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You and your husband have just grown apart?
CLIENT: Yes.  I've spent most of my life being busy with my work.  Photography… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.  But That's not the problem now.


CLIENT: No.  It is… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: We got the problem now… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I, I don't know.  But, see I don't have any interest in my life.  I don't care about anything.  I don't care about a thing… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You just told me you care about your old man… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uhmm… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …you care about your husband, you care about your kids. How can you… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I don't… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …How can you, how can you self-delude yourself to that extent?
CLIENT: I mean, I don't care.  I don't, I don't love.  I guess that's the right word.  I, I… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.  It sounds like that was a little lacking in your life.  What with the (inaudible 00:19:46) interest in sex?  Your love is (inaudible 00:19:48) too slow-burnin'.   Yeah.  No doubt about it.
CLIENT: It's not that I don't care about my father.  I, I mean… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I don't wanna talk about your father.  And I'm sorry I mentioned him.
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: Let's talk about your husband.  He's alive and relatively healthy.  How old is he?  About 45, 46, too?
CLIENT: He's in that range.
THERAPIST: Okay.  And relatively healthy?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And a person of a reasonable mental qualities?  I mean, if he wanted to be an interesting person, he could be if he wanted to be?
CLIENT: To the right people.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.  Well, we can't please everybody.
CLIENT: He seems to be—He just doesn't show any interest in me either, you know.  Uhh… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uhhh.  I wonder why?
CLIENT: He doesn't ask me how ahh—about my day.  He doesn't make sure that I've got enough to do or that ahh, you know, he doesn't notice that I'm looking sad or feeling sad.  If I don't feel like cooking, he doesn't care.  He just—you know, he doesn't really care.  He'll just pick up something and bring it home.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It's not—It just seems like I don't have a—I'm not, I'm not important to him.  Also the kids.
THERAPIST: Hmmm.  That's one way of looking at it.  Could be that, could be something entirely different.  You might be very important to him.  You'll know.  You're not talking enough to find out?  When you read this women's magazine about, "Am I That Important in My Mirror (ph)", your parroting all the things out of cosmopolitan. (sighs)
CLIENT: I didn't realize that.  I don't even read those magazines.  So… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, you don't have to read them.  The people that write them know about you. (sighs)  Frustrating, isn't it?
CLIENT: It is very frustrating.
THERAPIST: Nope.  When you're frustrated what do you do?
CLIENT: Well, I do a lot of walking and a lot of thinking.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  You have a dog that at least… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I have a dog.
THERAPIST: …to walk with.  Well, (laughs) that's good you have a dog.
CLIENT: Great relationship with the dog.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  Well, that's good.  Yeah. (sighs)  The dog loves to go for a walk.  Could you pick up (ph) the list that dog jumps out of her skin, huh? (sighs)  Okay.  You know, that's what Harry Truman said, that if you want love, buy a dog.  (laughs)  Buy a dog for ten bucks to love you for ten years and jump for joy every time you enter the house.  You can't get a human being to do that for ten bucks.  That's what Harry said.  But your husband doesn't jump for joy when you are in the house, right?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: When you hold up the least, she doesn't run and take a walk with you. (sighs)
CLIENT: No.  Maybe he's afraid I'm gonna put him in the other hand (ph).
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Maybe he'd like to be in the other hand (ph). (sighs)
CLIENT: What do you think?
THERAPIST: I don't know.  I haven't met the man.  You're, you're the one living with him in 27 years… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I don't, I don't think my husband would like to be led around.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  And I would say you don't wanna be led around either, do you?
CLIENT: No.  Of course not… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: - I wanna walk side by side.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Are you willing to do your share of walking side by side? (sighs)  Takes two people to get in line and walk side by side.
CLIENT: Yeah.  Of course, I do want to walk right with him.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  Doesn't sound like it to me.
CLIENT: Well, what am I saying that… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You're saying you're waiting for him to change?
CLIENT: I'm asking your opinion or I'm asking for help to know, to ask what, what I should do here.  What's, what's… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: …what steps I should take.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  I'm saying is you should do something?
CLIENT: Well… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You're saying: he won't change.  He's uninterested.  What if I told you I think he's scared to be interested?"
CLIENT: Why?
THERAPIST: I don't know why.  Maybe ‘cause he'll get rejected.  You must be good at rejecting him by now. 


CLIENT: Well… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: And he's good at rejecting you.  You're really good at doing that with each other.
CLIENT: The thing with this, you see, I'm not going to open myself up.
THERAPIST: So you're scared, too.  Aren't you?
CLIENT: Well, certainly.
THERAPIST: And why isn't he scared?  He's terrified, probably.  Men tend to be more scared of this in women.  They know how to stop these women (ph).
CLIENT: (Sighs) He is, he's afraid of being—of my rejecting him?
THERAPIST: I think so.  You haven't reached over and touched him for four months? 
CLIENT: But he hasn't reached over and touched me?
THERAPIST: Isn't that a way to live with him (ph) for the next 31 years?  I'll wait for you and you'll wait for me in 31 years of misery, huh?  You want that?
CLIENT: I used to be the woman who makes the first move.
THERAPIST: Whoever makes the first move is the one who's most dissatisfied.
CLIENT: Huhh.  I'm really bad.
THERAPIST: You could make a move tonight if you wanted to.
CLIENT: What if I make a move and he doesn't respond?
THERAPIST: Make a good move. (laughs)(murmurs)
CLIENT: Tell me what a good move is.
THERAPIST: I'm not a woman.  I can't tell you exactly.  But you could make a move to him tonight that he would not reject.
CLIENT: Well, I wouldn't make that move that's in your eyes right now.
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't you?  He's your husband?  It's perfectly legal?
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: You say you don't have anyone else?  So you may as well try it with him. (sighs)  I mean, would sure (inaudible 00:25:24) a lot of difficulty if you could figure out how to do it.
CLIENT: But I don't want to associate, I don't want to associate the… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: This improving your marriage?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: Why can't there be other things happen first before that?  Does that have to happen first?
THERAPIST: No, it doesn't have to happen first, but it's the easiest thing to take care of.  It's like easier than taking a trip to Japan and things like that.
CLIENT: I don't think so.  I'd like that.
THERAPIST: You might get that.  If you plan it.  Buy the tickets.  Check his schedule.
CLIENT: You mean just go ahead and buy the tickets without asking him first?
THERAPIST: No, you can ask him.  He wouldn't say, "No".



CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: When was the last you asked him to do something really outstanding and he said “no” to it outright?  You haven't asked.  You're certain to tell me you haven't done much.  You're not very aggressive in this relationship that's so unhappy.
CLIENT: Well, see?  It isn't the outside.  It's the—It's in here that's unhappy.  Do you know what I mean?... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Isn't it… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: …Even if… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Isn't it—Isn't the inside attached to the outside?
CLIENT: Oh, yes.  But I mean, a lot of people, a lot of ways to make yourself happy on the outside.  You can go to the store and buy clothes to make you happy on the outside… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: That ain't… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: But it doesn't… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: …gonna help your marriage.
CLIENT: Oh, so how can you help the inside?  How can I help me in here?
THERAPIST: Okay.  Well, I'm willing—I think you've come to a really good point.  That's good.  What is gonna help you in here?
CLIENT: Well, I want him.  I want to be for… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: He may never do it.  And that's the truth.  He may never do it.
CLIENT: But if he really loves me, wouldn't he really do it?
THERAPIST: Not necessarily.  It may be long since he's so scared to make the move.  Somehow what you've sent each other's message and you've got each other real frightened.  And now you're stuck in this fear.  You don't feel each other, yell or scream.  You just sit in this fearful thing, "My God, what if I make a move, he'll reject me?".  And he says, "My God, what if I make a move, she'll reject me?"  Someone's gonna break it.  And I'm suggesting you.  If he were around, I'd say exactly the same thing to you.  No, I'm not picking on you.  But you're the one I'm counseling.  I'm not saying it has to be a sexual move.  It has to be a move, though.
CLIENT: What if I would say to him… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I wouldn't say anything to him.  I'd do something.  I think, at this point, talk isn't gonna work.
CLIENT: Talk is not going to work.  I should just (ph) do something.
THERAPIST: Do something.  Some demands should do the thing.  I don't know what it might be. (sighs).
CLIENT: Hmmm.  I don't know what it would be, either.
THERAPIST: But sex is on his mind, I'll tell you that.
CLIENT: Well, what if sex is on his mind with someone else?  Because isn't it quite abnormal—I mean, a woman can go longer than man without having sex?
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: I mean, sort of. (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What if he's having sex with somebody else?
THERAPIST: If he's having sex with somebody else, the marriage is over.  So we have to assume he's not.  And you're 45 and you're nice-looking.  Divorce him and find someone else.  Your kids are gone, anyway (ph).  If that's what's going on, get rid of him.  But if you want it with him, you have to go in the assumption like I'm saying that he wants it with you and doesn't know how to get it.  I don't see why it should be any different from you.  When I asked that question, initially you looked at me like I was really from outer space.  And so I have the feeling you're right.  He doesn't have someone else.
CLIENT: He doesn't?
THERAPIST: Well, unless you wanna change your tune all together now?  Your tune was certainly different before.  You look at me as if, "My God, what right did he got to ask that question.  You hardly know me."  Well, I don't have to know you to ask questions.  I'm you're psychiatrist.  So, if you want to talk about the possibilities with someone else, then confront him and ask him.  But I think it could cause worse trouble between you if it's not so.  I don't advise it.  I mean, is he running out at night to make phone calls?  I mean, is there anything like he's obviously—very hard for a woman who lives with the men as long as you have for him to change his life to the point where he's having some kind of a sexual relation with another person and not get some kind of a hint about it?  The man usually even sends a hint to kind the tell you, “See, you're not good enough, babe.”  Now, if you could be getting all sense (ph).
CLIENT: I think I have.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (sighs).  So, I have to do something, huh?
THERAPIST: No.  You don't have to do anything.  Maybe you can live with thir—next 31 years miserable.  I mean… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: What if I want, if I want a happier homelife… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: If you want something more from him, my guess is: you're gonna have to make the move.  He's more scared than you are.  Otherwise, he would have made the move.  You've at least made the move to come to see me —which is a very sensible thing.  This could have gone on even longer.  Now, at least, you're gonna find out.  And you're scared of that, too.  You can make the move and get rejected.  It could happen.
CLIENT: And then what?
THERAPIST: Then, at least you'll know where you stand.  Get a divorce.
CLIENT: (Sighs).  I don't know if I could go through a divorce.
THERAPIST: Sure you could.  You've been “divorced” already for four months.  Just like this.  You said you live separately.  (inaudible 00:31:19) (pulling a chair) The dog can still walk (ph).  Could you (inaudible 00:31:21) marry and divorce (ph)?.
CLIENT: (laughs) (indistinct sound 00:31:23) (inaudible 00:31:29) my future.  I want it planned.
THERAPIST: Not necessarily.  If the husband—If you get a really nice thing for your husband and move toward him a little bit and he rejects you, you got at least 30 really good years left if you wanna use it.  Find someone else.  It's not impossible.  I don't think that's the case.  But why not find out now, rather than your father's finding it out maybe later and he's a miserable man.  Should have done something different when he was younger?  You could do the same.  You could do something different now.  If I'd seen your father 30 years ago, I would've said, "Oh man! What are you screwing up your life for?"
CLIENT: I don't think my father was the one screwing up his life.  He was screwing up my mother's life.
THERAPIST: I don't think he was the world's happiest man from what you tell me.
CLIENT: Well, my mother wasn't either.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Well, you're not either and neither is your husband?  So why repeat that scene?
CLIENT: Oh, that's exactly right.  I don't wanna repeat it.
THERAPIST: Okay.  But your mother didn't do anything.  So, maybe gave up living. (sighs)  The psychiatrist's tough stuff.  You're coming here just to chat.  (indistinct sound)
CLIENT: My mother—what do you mean she gave up living?
THERAPIST: I don't know.  She died very young.  People have died very long (ph).  Sometimes, get sick and don't really have the (inaudible 00:33:07) and tremendously unhappy and those things happen.  She died at 40 years, 45 years old.
CLIENT: She had a brain aneurysm. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That, that was… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I don't know.  Could have been a total coincidence.  But whatever it is, your mother was unhappy.  And had she lived—should she live ‘til today with your father, which she very well couldn't, would you predict that those next few years would have been unhappy those (ph) next 37 years?
CLIENT: No.  Definitely.
THERAPIST: Okay.  So, I'm not saying your mother killed herself from (inaudible 00:33:43) being spooky around here (ph).  All I'm saying is that she wasn't looking forward to a very happy life at that stage of the game.  You don't have a brain anuerysm.  You have the capacity to do something with your life.  You wanna travel.  You wanna have a good relationship.  You wanna have many things.  The only one who can do anything about it is you.  And you can, if you want to.  'Cause what you have to do is not that hard.
CLIENT: (sighs)  So I have to do something… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: No, Linda.  You don't have to do anything.  I'm just pointing out, if you wanna be happy, you have to do something.
CLIENT: Excuse me.  If I want to be happy… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yes.  Good to say it.
CLIENT: …then I have to do something.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  Yeah.  Because if you do nothing and he does nothing, then you have what you have, and you know what that is, and that's what you come in for.  So, I could see you from the next 30 years, you'll be giving me the money that would go with the deal.  Yes.  We'll start today.  (inaudible 00:34:49) does not to (ph) take a hundred years.
CLIENT: So then, ahh, I should go home and, and grab him and… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Not necessarily.
CLIENT: …do it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.  It might not be a bad idea but it's up to you. (sighs)  I can't tell you exactly what to do, but you have to make a gesture to him which says—What's his first name?
CLIENT: Ron.
THERAPIST: “Ron, look.  Let's get together again.  Let's stop screwing up our lives.  I think you'll be happy to hear from him.  And you'll cry, rub each other and it'll be a marvelous thing.  And if it isn't, you gave it a good try.  I don't mean anything nasty, no second things.  I mean, you might have to make a couple of gestures.  He might be so asleep but it takes a couple.  Why not?  What have you got to lose?  You've got nothing now?  And then if you told me, I have a great life which is (inaudible 00:35:46), I wouldn't talk like this at all.  But you made the very point of saying, "Hmm, my life's no good.”
CLIENT: Well, I guess, I guess—you know, I mean, you're making perfectly good sense.
THERAPIST: I'm trying to. (sighs)
CLIENT: Good thing. (sighs) (laughs).  But, you see, I'm afraid of being hurt.
THERAPIST: Of being rejected.
CLIENT: Yeah.  You know.
THERAPIST: Well, there's another way to do it.  And I don't know.  I don't think it's as good as what I'm suggesting. (sighs)  You could write it out on a piece of paper and give it to him.  Tell him to read.  Could all be done on a couple of pages.  Just lay it out and say, "I'm scared and you're scared.  And I wanna love and you wanna love me. (sighs)
CLIENT: That might work.
THERAPIST: Right.  If you wanna write something out like that, you really spend some time on it.  I've (inaudible 00:36:44) over with you and talked to you about it. (sighs)
CLIENT: It might work.  Because then he can read it and give him a chance to think about it and see how he can react… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.  The confrontation wouldn't be so sudden.  Yeah.  Give him that chance.  So if he ever go away for awhile or a day or two, overnight or a show or convention or something… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Fishing.
THERAPIST: Fishing?  When does he gonna go fishing?
CLIENT: I don't know.  Whenever he gets the urge.
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, just—is it like soon?  'Cause I think that would be a marvelous thing to send away fishing for him.  He'd have really caught a fish on that expedition.  (sighs)  You could even make a little fish on the outside.  “Here's the first one, Darling.” (laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah.  Could that add a… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, you can draw a picture of a fish in the outside.  Then he opens it up and there's the message.
CLIENT: I think that I can (ph) (inaudible 00:37:35)
THERAPIST: Yeah.  You could do it.  (laughs) What I mean, you know where to put it out again (ph).
CLIENT: (Laughs) I know where to put it now… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But now we're talking about something definite.  I mean, see, you are creative.  That was a real good thing.  I mean, I'm pushing here, but write him a note when he goes fishing sounds pretty good.  Now you'd be hangin' there, you'll have to wait for the answer.
CLIENT: Okay.  In that way, I, I wouldn't (inaudible 00:38:07) my children either.  I mean, you know, if we—things work out… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.  Goes with your children (ph).
CLIENT: Well, they're pretty close with him, you know.  Funny thing… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Sure, he has some capacity for love and affection if teenage boys are close to him.  That's a good sign.  Very sign of a very good man.  Very unlikely for man like that to be having an affair with another woman—just the indication that the boys are close to him.
CLIENT: (sighs) True.
THERAPIST: The boys would like to be closer to you, too.  But he maybe sending a message “Don't be close to your mother.  You can't trust her.”  I mean, all kinds of crazy things go on when people reject each other.  Then they end (ph) competitive over the kids… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: You think it's too late for them now that they're so old?
THERAPIST: Too late for them?  Never too late, why?
CLIENT: (inaudible 00:38:56) of that people when they were young… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: If they see you and him getting along, you'll be excited with them.  They want that as much as anything.  "The best thing parents can do for children, is love each other."  That's—Catholic priest said that in Chicago about 20 years ago.  I've never heard anything better.  Why don't you do this?  Being miserable in another few days is okay.  It's not that miserable.  Handle your father however you think is best.  That's up to you.  You'll do okay no matter what you do.  Write up something that you would communicate to your husband what you want, but you got to make it very affectionate as possible.  It can't be second-guessing.  And it can't be like if you don't do exactly as I want, it isn't gonna work out.  You got to lay yourself open to be hurt a little bit.  And if it hurts you real bad, I'll help you pick up the pieces.  I'm good at that.  But I don't think it's going to.  I think just what I said a long time ago, he's more scared than you are.
CLIENT: Are you speaking from experience of a man's point of view?
THERAPIST: I'm speaking from a long psychiatric experience.  I'm an old psychiatrist.  I'm just almost as old as your father.  But I'm not mean like him.
CLIENT: I think you're right.
THERAPIST: Give it a try… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I wanna do it.
THERAPIST: …Give it a try.  Just—first, just between you and me.  And if I read at night, kindly say, “This isn't gonna work out.”  I'll tell you.  So you're risking really nothing—at least, to go that far of writting it and showing it to me.  And it'll help you focus your ideas.  Okay?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: You'll really interest him.  I mean to see what you'll write.  I see people once a week.  You're a busy woman.  You walk the dog and everything.  Take a week on this.  Do you write on the computer? (indistinct sound)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Okay.  Doesn't computer help you edit and (inaudible 00:41:10) like this.  What are you gonna do, though—this thought just occurred to me, if he sees you write and what are you gonna tell him?
CLIENT: Well, I've, I've never minded him to looking over my shoulder.
THERAPIST: No.  He probably won't do that.  But he might see you writing something?
CLIENT: (Sighs) Oh.  I'm not good at thinking anything else (ph).
THERAPIST: You aren't thinking (ph)… (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No.  He doesn't question what I do.  He doesn't care.
THERAPIST: Uhm.  Okay. (sighs) Okay.  I was thinking you might tell him something kind of fib but kinda true, “I'm writing a note for you to take with you the next time you go fishing.”
CLIENT: You mean, I'll go? (laughing)
THERAPIST: Well, that's up to you, but I think it would be kind of interesting.  You may as well let him have a little of this stuff that you're going through, too.  If he—only if he'd ask.
CLIENT: Yeah.  I think surprises… (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: We're saying—You say, “I'm thinking of writing a note to you to take with you the next time you go fishing.  But I don't know what to say, that's why I'm sitting here.”  I mean, just be a little creative.  I mean, it's life.  I mean, you know, you're capable of laughing.  You smiled a few times in this interview.  The basic thing in life if you get it right down doing this is to have a little laughter everyday.  And you're not having very much right now.
CLIENT: No. And you're absolutely right.
THERAPIST: Okay. (sighs)  Alright there (ph), Linda.
CLIENT: You're pretty good.
THERAPIST: I'm trying. (laughs)  Okay.  Shake hands.
CLIENT: Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: See you next week.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Alright. (hands clapping)
END TRANSCRIPT
