Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Okay. Now we can start.
CLIENT: Okay. So I had a conversation with my mom a week ago. It was actually right after we had met on Monday. Between now and class and, I guess, then class.
THERAPIST: Did you call her? Did you call her? Was it -
CLIENT: I don't remember.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe I called her. Yeah, I'd to have called her because it was during - it was her lunch. So she doesn't usually call me till afterward. And we said hi, and it was really nice. And we talked for a while. And I was like, "Oh, this is cool. This is such a nice day." But then she - we started talking about graduation. And then we started talking about inviting my dad. And I said that I didn't want to. And so I was starting to get really frustrated. And I was like, "I'm just going to start yelling." And now I'm like, "Now, I'm never going to tell her how I feel and why I don't want him to come. And just be calm." And so I did. I mean, this was a really circular conversation, so a lot this was repeated a lot of times. But I said I don't want to invite my dad because I can't - I haven't spoken to him in such a long time. I can't look at him. I can't...making eye contact is difficult for me with him.
And I think that it would be would be great if I could have one day that would be celebratory, it would be fun. And I don't think it would be fun if my dad came. And I just don't want to share the day with him basically is what I said. And she said that she thought I was making a mistake. And that I had a response...what was it, an obligation or a responsibility or something like that to invite him because he had been sending me money and all these things. And I said, "Well, I don't want a relationship with my dad to be founded on guilt or obligation or how - " you know what I mean? And so I said that. And she was like, "But I still think that you're wrong." And I was like, "Okay. Well, you know what, I'm an adult. And we're going to disagree sometimes." And all this is stuff that I never say. And I said, "And it's okay to disagree, but you just have to know that that's just that's what I'm doing. And it would be great if we could...if you could just...I said, "If you could respect this, but I admit, can we stop talking about this?" Because it was just sort of going over and over again. And so then by the fourth time, I started to get really frustrated. I was like, "Mom, I don't want to have this conversation.
THERAPIST: I need to be done. [02:39]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was standing outside of my classroom and it started two minutes before. So I was also trying to wrap it up. And then she said something like, "Well, then I guess I'll have to figure out a way to pay for the trip if you don't invite your dad." And because she doesn't make a lot of money, and so it would be real hardship for her to come to graduation. I mean - yeah.
THERAPIST: He would pay for both of them then? [03:14]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And so at that point I was...I just lost it. And I was like, "I can't believe you just made this a really difficult decision for me. How can you just have guilt tripped me like that? That's not fair." But I don't think I said that much. I just was really teary and I was like, "Okay. Well, you know what, I have to go to class." And so then after that, I just - I usually...I'm really good at holding it together I guess. But I just...I had a really hard time even a through a class a little bit, I was -
THERAPIST: That's a lot of pressure to put on you and to make you responsibility for that. [03:48]
CLIENT: Yeah, I didn't - I mean, I don't like it. But at the same time, she's right. I guess it is sort of up to me. I don't - so anyway, this has been bothering me this whole week. And I thought that I would be fine with it. Maybe like, "Okay. Be upset for a day and get over it sort of thing," but I can't. And it has really been sort of affecting everything else too. So now I feel like I'm falling apart.
THERAPIST: What do you think she's right about?
CLIENT: The situation is the way that I think that she sees it. If I don't invite him then it would be awkward for her to ask for money to come or something. But that's also not my fault because just because he -
THERAPIST: Ahh.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I think that's a really important piece. Yes, she might be right about that, that it probably would feel awkward for her to ask him for money for something that he's not going to. But that's not your responsibility.
CLIENT: I guess, but -
THERAPIST: And it...I think and, this is just my opinion, that it's a little bit unfair for her to pressure you to solve her money issue. That's a big thing for you to kind of pay for emotionally. [04:56]
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Because basically, what she's asking is your happiness is worth giving up to pay for the plane ticket on your graduation day. Not your happiness forever, but your happiness and your comfort on your own graduation day is worth the cost of the plane ticket.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: That seems a little unfair to me. [05:24]
CLIENT: I don't know that she would see it like that I guess. She just thinks that it's wrong for me not to invite my dad because he's my dad and I only have one or whatever. And I guess I get it because she's always felt really guilty that we never had - well, especially me because my older brother sort of had other stuff, and my little brother was never really around for them to be together. But she always felt really bad that I didn't have that, "Mom and Dad are okay. And we're happy sort of family." And I'm like, "Well, but, that's fine." But she's always felt really guilty about that because she always - because she had a great relationship with her dad. And so she always says like, "Oh, I really wanted that for you because I had such a great relationship with my dad."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But at the same time, I'm like...I just - I don't know. This is just like -
THERAPIST: But you don't have that relationship.
CLIENT: Right, exactly. And that would have been great -
THERAPIST: And you pretending that you do doesn't make it so.
CLIENT: Right. And I can - I don't know. I can't even imagine...I can't imagine how the day would look with him being here. Because my older brother and sister-in-law and my nephews are no longer coming because it was a huge financial burden and I understand. It's four of them. That's a lot of money. So they're not coming and that's fine. But I would almost rather nobody come to my graduation then if...I mean, I wouldn't have to worry about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [06:50]
CLIENT: And so - I don't know what to do. And she calls me last night and we talked. And we hadn't talked in a week which is a lot more than we usually go without talking. And she called me which is also unusual because she always waits for me to call her. And so she was like, "Oh, well, we didn't talk yesterday, so I thought I would call and say hi." And I was like, "Oh, hi, Mom." And it was kind of awkward. I think we both knew.
THERAPIST: You both have a lot of tension between you?
CLIENT: Yeah, especially because I didn't call her back after that one time. And I don't know. I just felt like it really sucked that I told her all these things instead of just being like, "No."
THERAPIST: And she didn't hear it? [07:36]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's really hard because it sounds like you did...you did a good job about the things that were in your control. You were able to express what you were feeling. You were pretty honest with her. And that's the piece you have control over. And she didn't respond by being able to really hear what you were really saying.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I don't know. I think it comes back to this whole thing that my mom is very black and white; things are either right or wrong. And I can't sort of have my version of right. So that makes it really hard, I think, for us to really...because I'm the extreme opposite of that. Not only that's where...that's actually where philosophy at school actually spills into my real life is extreme subjectivism I guess or whatever. And so that's really tough for me to have a conversation with her. So - I don't know. And I feel a little bit crazy because usually things like this don't bother me this much. And I'm - [08:38]
THERAPIST: So what you think it is about this particular time that's making it harder to kind of put away?
CLIENT: I don't know, maybe I'm out of practice. But - I don't know. It's just really sort of - maybe it's just because it's so...I can't avoid it indefinitely because we have to find tickets now. And, I mean, I would pay for it. I really would, I just don't have any money. So I don't know what the solution is other than inviting my dad I guess. I can't just avoid that indefinitely. Which is usually what I can do is feel like I don't have to talk about this ever again if I don't want to. So - [09:20]
THERAPIST: So what is the time frame you need? When do you need to make a final decision about -
CLIENT: Really soon.
THERAPIST: - buying tickets?
CLIENT: Yeah, because they'll start to go up really soon. I mean, it's for mid May and plus it's graduation season (inaudible at 09:38). So, yeah, I don't know. And we only have two tickets for graduation too, so for the walking or whatever morning exercises. And my mom is like, "Well, the other ticket should go to your dad." And that...I can't even imagine what it would be like to have my mom and my dad sitting next to each other at graduation. I was...it would just be so crazy. Like, "What are you doing? Why are you sitting next to each other?" It's kind of funny actually because I can't even fathom it.
THERAPIST: If you had a magic wand, what would you do? Who would be here? What would happen? [10:11]
CLIENT: My mom and my little brother. I mean, my older brother too, but I understand. It's really not a big deal and undergrad was much more important to me, I think, than this graduation. So my little brother and my mom. And I even...I even told my mom, I was like, "My dad is not my family." I said that. And I don't...she didn't get it I don't think. But, yeah, I think that would be really nice. And it's fun because the three of us and that's really easy to book reservations and places and go to museums and have it not be (inaudible at 10:47) and do fun things and a manageable amount of people. I think that would be really fun actually.
THERAPIST: That sounds fun. [11:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, but I don't know. I don't know what to do. It's also annoying because it's affecting my ability to do other stuff. I should be doing work right now or I should be catching up on my homework. I have a friend visiting me in two weeks. And I told her that I would do all of my work. I just I feel like I just want to press pause and stop. But I can't do that.
THERAPIST: What are the feelings that are coming up when you think about it?
CLIENT: About this whole thing? I feel really overwhelmed. Because I think it makes me think of everything else that's wrong with my family. And it makes it really overwhelming. I just...it makes me feel like I'm never going to have to stop dealing with these types of issues. And it's going to be like this forever and I don't...I mean, that would suck. Yeah, so it makes it - yeah.
THERAPIST: So you're trying to process everything that's ever been wrong with your family and everything that will be difficult in the future? [12:19]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it...it's sort of...I'm so frustrated. I'm like, "Okay, well - " and I am really frustrated with something I...I'm just like...I sort of put it back. And I'm like, "Okay, well, whatever and look at the big picture." But the big picture sucks so.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it does. This is a hard one.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I guess maybe I should try to separate the two, but that's hard too because that's just how I think.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you can't process everything in your family at once.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, that makes sense too. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, it's just hard because I don't want to...I don't want to have this kind of relationship with my family forever. If there's things to work on individually, that's fine. But this just seems like a...it seems - I don't know. It's not like this, but it seems like some sort of a wall that I'm never going to get over it, going to be stuck with the relationship that I have now and not be able to change them and that sucks. I don't know. [13:19]
THERAPIST: When you...when you say, "The relationship that I have in my family," what exactly are you putting in that bucket?
CLIENT: I guess all the things that I do wrong now, and not be able to talk with my family really.
THERAPIST: But you're doing it.
CLIENT: Sort of, but it didn't really work.
THERAPIST: But that's not in your control. This isn't all your responsibility.
CLIENT: I think that's a hard one for me. Yeah, I'm used to - yeah, I'm used to controlling a lot more than that I guess. So that's hard, that's new.
THERAPIST: I don't see...in this scenario, I don't see what you did wrong.
CLIENT: I think maybe...maybe it's that I tried, and then it failed or whatever. And that maybe it will always fail or something. [14:29]
THERAPIST: You couldn't make your mom see, is that what you're saying? You couldn't make your mom get what you meant -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - see how it would be better not to have your dad there?
CLIENT: Well, I think that she understood it, but -
THERAPIST: But she's telling you you're feeling the wrong way?
CLIENT: Right, yeah. Because there's an absolute right or wrong way to feel so that - yeah. And I tried explaining to my mom that that's just not how I think. I actually tried that in the trip to Orlando or whatever. I tried to explain that I think that I think certain ways. And I think that it's fine for someone to make a decision that I disagree with, and that it might be right for them. And she's - and her way of thinking about it is like, "Well, you know they're making their own decision, but it's their decision to make, so I have no business." And so we have the same action, i.e. respecting other people's decisions, but motivated by different reason. And I think that's harder for her to do because I'm her daughter. You know, I'm not - [15:39]
THERAPIST: She doesn't want to let you to make a mistake, and she really does see it as a mistake in her book.
CLIENT: Right, right, but I don't know. Not everyone has the same book. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So I don't know what to really do. I don't know if it would be worth calling her back or...and talking about it more or - I don't know. I mean, ultimately she said it was my decision to make. So she did do that.
THERAPIST: She said that, and then she said this piece about the money which seems...somehow seems a little bit like it conflicts with that. It's your decision -
CLIENT: Yeah. [16:11]
THERAPIST: - but it's going to be hard for me to get there now.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. And - I don't know. I mean - yeah. I just - yeah.
THERAPIST: How is valid that? How is...how much of a burden is the plane ticket for her? Are there other -
CLIENT: It would go into her savings, so that would suck, but - I don't know. I mean, I'm already way in debt. Might as well - that's the other part is I've paid off 3/5<sup>th</sup> of my debt in the past year by pretty...being pretty...I save a lot of money, but I don't save any of it, I put it towards my debt. And so that was really - that's also...that's a huge mental burden for me -
THEAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - is I'm so far in debt, so far in debt all the time. So every time I buy a coffee I'm like, "I could be spending this on my credit card." But I mean, I don't mind. I think that having my mom and my brother here is really important to me. And that seems more important than, I don't know, paying my credit card off.
THERAPIST: So if you could incur the debt for her, how come she can't come into her savings? [17:33]
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I feel...I feel bad though because my mom has never really had money of her own. And this is the first job that she's really ever had. And so I also don't want to do that either so. Because she always worked...she always worked a lot with my dad, but he never paid her anything. And she was always sort of - he never...he never even appreciated that she was helping him. And so - I don't know. I love that my mom has a job now, and it makes her feel good. And - yeah, I don't know. It's really hard for me to accept her money. It's hard for me to accept anyone's money, but particularly my moms. [18:24]
THERAPIST: Sounds like she works really hard for what she has.
CLIENT: Yeah, so makes things hard to ask her to do for me at least.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So I don't know.
THERAPIST: These are really hard decisions.
CLIENT: And it sucks that this is - it's supposed to be a happy thing. And I'm just really frustrated.
THERAPIST: And it's disappointing that so much gets tied up in this graduation day because it's...you're right. It's a day to celebrate something that you've accomplished. [18:58]
CLIENT: And I don't know. It was really...it was hard for me. And my mom knows that it was hard for me. And I just want to have a good time. And I also think of, this isn't really in terms of life events, it's pretty...it's not that important. I mean, sort of, but it's kind of -
THERAPIST: Every graduation, getting a master's degree, is pretty important.
CLIENT: Well, but, I mean, there's other things that happen too, getting married -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - and having a baby, that's pretty big.
THERAPIST: Those are important, too, yes. But you're not doing those things right now.
CLIENT: Right. But what I'm saying is, if this is how hard this is, it's supposed to be something pretty straight forward. I want to have a good time. I can't even imagine what other things in the future are going to - [19:37]
THERAPIST: This is good practice (Laughter)?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And then - yeah. And I think back to the time when my little brother was mad at me, and was like, "Well, get over it sort of thing." And my older brother being mad at me for - so I just feel like everyone in my family is telling me that I'm wrong. And it's really hard to stick to something that I think is right for me.
THERAPIST: How come they get to decide whether it's right for you?
CLIENT: Well, I mean, I don't know. I guess not, but maybe I could deal with one, but -
THERAPIST: They all feel -
CLIENT: - all at the same time.
THERAPIST: They all feel this one way -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - and you feel a different way, so it makes theirs seem more valid sometimes?
CLIENT: And I can't help, but also think that it's like a cultural thing, that patriarch sort of thing. And I'm not into that. So I don't know. I think that's part of it, is that -
THERAPIST: That somehow your feelings are less important because you're a woman and because you're younger? [20:48]
CLIENT: Well, no. I think the expectation is that, "Well, men will cheat and you have to forgive them or something." And I'm not - I don't think that's right. I don't know. I don't know. There's just - this is what my thinking has been like. Every night is all of this stuff together and its - I don't know what to do with it.
THERAPIST: Is that why you're...is that why you don't want him here is because of his infidelity? [21:16]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, she's only a couple years older than me. And so I think that's really disturbing to me. I'm like...and she's like a child, and she could be his daughter. She's younger than my older brother. And so it just seems so wrong. And maybe looking back on it, fine, I was a little girl, I was fighting with him. Maybe I didn't say the right things or whatever, that's fine. But I was asking him to stop what he was doing, and he didn't do that. He chose to continue doing whatever he was doing then to sort of try to do something that he knew that I'd been asking for for years. And I think that...it feels like he chose her over me. And that's fine. He can choose whatever, but he has to also deal with the consequences. He can't just have both, especially when I made it abundantly clear to him that I didn't...that wasn't...that wasn't how it was going to go.
So I - yeah, and that's part of it too is I feel like I'm not sticking to my guns or whatever, which is really important to me in how I am. I - changing my mind is hard. Plus, I can't. And even just thinking...I was thinking about it last night, I was like, "Well, okay. I'm going to invite my dad, fine." How would I do that? Would I call him? "Okay, fine. I'm going to call him." What would I say? I don't know what I would say. I don't know.
THERAPIST: What makes it a choice between you and her? [23:05]
CLIENT: Because I was...I think...I was obviously not having a good time. I was obviously hurt. And I asked him to stop, and he was married. And so it seemed like the moral thing to do. Plus, a lot of the times, I know this is wrong, but a lot of the times my mom got...was...not would ask me, but would sort of. Just like she's not asking me to invite my dad right now, she would ask me to talk to him when I was little. And so I would. And so it wasn't just me, it was all this other stuff.
THERAPIST: Talk to him and say what?
CLIENT: To talk to him about what he was doing and to make him stop. And so -
THERAPIST: To talk to him about having affairs and making him stop?
CLIENT: Yeah, which his reply to was, "It's none of your business. It's my personal life, it shouldn't be affecting you. I still love you, blah, blah, blah, blah." But I also don't believe that anymore because of that one fight that we had that I...I think of my dad and I don't think of unconditional love. I think of very conditional love. And so - yeah, I guess that's really what it is, is that - yeah. I mean, maybe that's wrong, but that's what it feels like to me at least.
And - yeah, I don't know. And he's always...he's almost turned it on attacks on me. Even when we fought when we were younger, he would turn it into attacks on me, and that I was wrong. And so, like, "You will never find anyone to love you or whatever because you're so annoying and you won't leave me alone." And I was like...and so that just sort of escalated things. And so - anyway, I look at him and I think of all that. [24:59]
THERAPIST: It's really...it's really interesting and sad that your dad's romantic relationships and sexual relationships somehow became a reflection of you. Because really it's a reflection of his relationship with your mother. That's where his loyalty in the marriage was?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And I can understand why you'd feel angry with him and want him to focus on his family and be there for his family. Because in being outside of the marriage, he was also not taking care of his family, wasn't being a good dad.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. [25:45]
THERAPIST: But it seems likes there's a step missing where you know his affairs are really about his marriage, not about whether or not he loves you. And you have no power to control whether or not he steps outside his marriage. And your mom was sort of you know asking you to help, asking you to put some pressure on him not to cheat on her.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And how could you have possibly have stopped that?
CLIENT: But I think that - I think that when it became about me was when I actually asked him to stop and he didn't. Maybe not...maybe that's not why I initially asked him, that's not how I felt. I felt all the stuff that you said before the being a bad daughter or whatever. But then after that I don't know. It was just really - and I think that, this part is really hard to talk about, but he calls her by my name. And I don't - it just seems like there's so much...there's so much similarity between her and me. And I don't understand, but that makes it really - it's kind of gross. I mean, I don't - [26:58]
THERAPIST: Yes, it's...that does feel really confusing -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - because why, you know, why would he do that? Why you are tangled up in this?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean, what is him having a new wife have to do with you?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think probably the most irritating part was that he would never give validity to the way that I was feeling. So I would say, "Hey, I'm upset that you're doing this." He wouldn't be like, "Okay, well, let's talk about that." He would be like, "You have no right to be upset about this." And so - and I don't want to think that he has a point, but I don't know. I mean, that's just sort of the way that we have been relating for years. So there's no way for me to rethink it, I mean, not really. [27:47]
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't you be upset? I mean, there's a different between you not being able to control it and not thinking that there's a reason for you to be upset. I mean, your mom was getting hurt. Of course, you feel for your mom.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: You're missing out on having a dad present. Of course, you're upset. I don't think his choice to leave his marriage or his...and his choice to be unfaithful in the marriage is not about you. But, of course, you could see...it makes sense that you're upset by it. You're affected by it even if you're not the cause of it.
CLIENT: I think - yeah, I - yeah. I think that...that's what he told me, that it wasn't about me, but then it would -
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 28:20)?
CLIENT: - also in the same sweep, I guess, say that it shouldn't affect me.
THERAPIST: Right. And those are two different things.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's not about you. I don't think a parent's relationship to each other is about the kid.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: But, of course, it affects the child.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: They're your parents.
CLIENT: Uh-huh, yeah.
THERAPIST: And it becomes such a...and it...over time it becomes such a loaded issue because he has been given sort of, I guess, pardon by everybody else. You're the one who hasn't pardoned his behavior. So then he's angry with you that you won't give him this because it absolves -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - him of responsibility. [29:04]
CLIENT: And that's the thing though, I think that that sort of behavior, at least on my part, is very...it's very much what he would do. That's...that's where we're very similar. And I think that's why it's so hard for me, for our relationship in particular. Because my brothers are not like that and I am. I'm very much like him in that...in that way. And so it's like...that's why our arguments were so horrible is because we both had to have the last word or whatever. And so it would just very quickly escalate. And I don't feel like that is what this is about. I don't think that, the me not talking to him thing, I don't think that it's me being stubborn and sort of sticking to it. I just...I'm just tired. And I'm just really tired. And I don't want to have to deal with it anymore. But it does always functions in that way I guess. So I don't know. That makes sense.
And he'll - yeah, he was...he was always frustrated with me because there's a man that worked with him when I was little. And he was the sweetest old man in the world. He's still family. And he...and the person...this man watched my dad grow up and stuff. He was like...he was pretty much part of the family. He knew the whole family. And this one time my dad came home, and he was with him. And so I ran up and I hugged the guy because he was, I don't know, he was like grandfatheresque. And then I couldn't do the same thing to my dad. And he got really jealous and held it against me for a really long time. So - I don't know. I guess I'm just really confused. And all these things get wrapped up in this one knot. It shouldn't be that confusing decision I guess. And I think the longer I stay with him the more...the more...the more fault I find I guess or - I don't - [31:20]
THERAPIST: Do you think the connection is there?
CLIENT: I think that it...I guess it was all really normal when I...when I had a relationship with him, it all seemed really normal. Like, "Okay, well, this is - we're going to fight again today. Okay, we won't fight tomorrow." And that was just sort of so normal that it was not something that I thought about as much I guess. But now that's not how I live my life. I don't fight with him every day.
THERAPIST: You don't fight with anybody every day.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. And I feel better in general, but then all that crazy that was my life is packed on to him because it's out of my life. And - does that make any sense?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [32:06]
CLIENT: I feel like I'm somehow more clearly headed and see everything. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, you have a different...you have a different frame of reference that you've prepared -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: - it against because now you see...you see other people having relationships that don't involve this. And you have relationships that don't involve this.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So, all of a sudden, it, you know, highlighted that this...that is very different.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But also backwards because I had that first - and so - I don't know. I mean, yeah. So I don't know if that's wrong or unfair that the longer I stay away from my dad the more I sort of don't want to deal with him.
THERAPIST: It is what it is. You don't have to judge it as wrong or unfair.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: It is what you're experiencing. And so the less contact you have with him, the more you see things in a way that portrays or reveals you know kind of the problems that you have in the relationship.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. [33:14]
THERAPIST: You don't have to judge your reaction. Even if your brothers choose to judge your reaction or your mother is judging your reaction, it doesn't mean you have to judge it. You can notice it and understand it without judging it.
CLIENT: But I don't know - but if it were really unfair, then that would sort of be my fault if I didn't have a relationship with him based on that, right? I don't know. I mean, but -
THERAPIST: What you see isn't made up out of thin air. Your feelings don't come from nowhere. You're basing it on your real feelings about him.
CLIENT: Yeah, okay. So, yeah, I guess -
THERAPIST: It sounds like you don't really trust your feelings, right? That's what you're -
CLIENT: I guess I just don't know if it's okay to feel that way, you know? Because I always don't want to be unfair to him. [34:19]
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't your feelings be okay?
CLIENT: If I'm making it up or something. I feel like...I just feel like it's in my head and not real.
THERAPIST: Which piece is in your head?
CLIENT: The whole...maybe I'm painting my dad as a worse person than he is because he, I don't know, is funny. He's really funny. And he has like...I guess he has good characteristics too, but I can't think of any of them. But they don't really play as big of part in my relationship with him, is what I'm saying. [34:54]
THERAPIST: So he might not be a horrible person, and I'm sure he has good characteristics. But the things that you're reacting to, it sounds like are his infidelities, the fact that the partner he has chosen now, he is choosing to call by your name.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And that makes you really uncomfortable.
CLIENT: I really don't like that.
THERAPIST: And those are not things that you're worried you're making up, are you?
CLIENT: No. Okay.
THERAPIST: Trusting your...trusting that your reactions to those things, those are really. Your feelings are real, they are valid.
CLIENT: Then I guess that's new.
THERAPIST: And trusting yourself even more.
CLIENT: Well, no. Maybe not trusting myself, but thinking that it's okay to feel a certain way, that's definitely new. Because even just, I mean, I know we were just talking about it, but my dad has told me the way that I feel is wrong. [36:03]
THERAPIST: You've gotten that message a lot. And I guess that's partly what I mean by trusting yourself, that recognizing what you're feeling and accepting it as an okay thing to feel.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: To me, that's...that's kind of part of trust that your gut is telling you that you're right.
CLIENT: Uh-huh, yeah.
THERAPIST: Rather than listening to these voices that say, "Oh, your gut, what you're feeling, that's not right."
CLIENT: Uh-huh, okay.
THERAPIST: A lot to sit in...or take in and sit with.
CLIENT: Yeah, and - yeah. And I think maybe...maybe it's not fair that all this stuff gets really wrapped up in whether or not he comes to graduation. That seems like a separate thing and maybe it's wrong...or not wrong, but maybe it's not the easiest thing or -
THERAPIST: Well, let's think about - what is your graduation about?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 36:58).
THERAPIST: It's your graduation.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, I talked about this with my mom too, was - I said that it really upsets me when he brags to other people about me. Because I feel like everything that I've done has been in spite of him and not with his support. Even just going to college was -
THERAPIST: You worked really hard to get there...get there.
CLIENT: Right, exactly. And then he - it's almost like he's taking credit for my success. And I don't like it at all. Because I don't think that - I think that he was the reason why my success was hard. And so - I don't know. I just...I feel like it was almost be like, "Well, you helped me, so you can come." And I don't want to admit that because I don't think that that's right. [37:45]
THERAPIST: And you don't want him to share in it.
CLIENT: That sounds really bad too. I don't know. I mean, would that be bad?
THERAPIST: No. That's a very judgmental word.
CLIENT: I know. Because I guess he's my dad and - I don't know.
THERAPIST: Has he earned that?
CLIENT: No. [38:10]
THERAPIST: I guess maybe we need to come up with different words.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: He's your - I guess what does dad mean to you? Maybe that's what we really kind of need to figure out.
CLIENT: I don't think I have a real definition or anything other than my relationship with my dad forth dad.
THERAPIST: But it sounds like that's not somebody that you want to have come celebrate this success with you?
CLIENT: No. Because I don't think he had anything to do with it. And I told my mom and I felt really honest when I said...this was like, "He's not part of my family." And it...it sort of...it sort of just came out. And then I was like...I thought about that for a minute.
THERAPIST: Does that feel right for you then? [38:57]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Does that describe it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: All right. So what's guy that is not part...a dad is part of your family, right? I mean, when we think about dad, what does dad mean?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I mean, I think most people would say is that that's somebody who raised you.
CLIENT: Yeah. [39:15]
THERAPIST: Somebody who is part of your family. But that's not what this - that's not what this man feels like to you.
CLIENT: No. But he did have a large impact on my life, I'm sure. Maybe it was a bad one, but he did. I don't know. He was a part of it. I don't know. Yeah, I don't feel like - yeah. I mean, I love my brother. And I don't know where he learned to be such a great dad. My brother is a great dad.
THERAPIST: How are they different?
CLIENT: He does things for his kids and sort of...he shares the responsibilities with his wife of raising children. Which is not what my family was like. So he...he'll even change diapers or whatever. And to my dad that would have been like, "Oh, well, he - " he looks at my brother and thinks that he's less of a man for doing those things because that's a woman's job. And to me that's like...I think he's a much better father to his kids because he has a better relationship with them and is not scared to.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 40:36)?
CLIENT: Right, yeah. And -
THERAPIST: Different generations.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, very different. But -
THERAPIST: And that's not enough to explain it because there are probably -
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 40:55) generations that changed a diaper -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - or wiped a snotty nose or went to a baseball game, but -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 40:57)?
CLIENT: And maybe that's not fair to put on to my dad because he did grow up differently. And that was sort of frowned upon or whatever. So I don't want to have an unfair expectations of his behavior or whatever, but -
THERAPIST: Those are probably pieces that you can see that also parallel other -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - ways that he interacted with you?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I mean, you probably don't remember who actually changed your diapers.
CLIENT: No, no, no.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 41:34) and if you did, it wouldn't matter.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 41:42).
THERAPIST: But you kind of...you combined that with other ways that he wasn't present in your life, and other ways -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - that he didn't want to connect with you. And so...I mean, who changes the diaper probably makes a bigger deal to the people that are co-parenting together -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - than the actual parent-child relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But it's stamped, I mean, it's just kind of one way that you see your brother involving himself differently -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - or treating his partner differently -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - then what your dad did. And basically, you're really upset with your dad in other ways that he wasn't there -
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [42:10]
THERAPIST: - for your mom and other ways that he wasn't there for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think that's...that's what I mean. It's not about diapers (chuckles).
THERAPIST: But I mean, but I think you know -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - you use that as an example that, and I can totally understand, kind of what it meant for you.
CLIENT: So, yeah, I think - yeah, that's...that's more of what I think of a dad should be like I guess.
THERAPIST: And that's something that you might want to have there to share in your celebration, but he didn't share in other stuff with you. So it makes sense that you don't really feel like sharing this with him.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah, okay. (Laughter). Yeah, I think part of it is that I know how I feel, and I second guess it. I was like, "Is it okay to feel this way?" But either way I feel this way you know. And -
THERAPIST: And what is second guessing it get you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, I mean, I guess I could change it if it were somehow based on false promises or something. But I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, you need to check in with yourself -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - and see, "Is this what I really feel?" If it is, "Okay, that's how I feel." And there's a difference between checking in with yourself to kind of ascertain what it is you're really feeling, and telling yourself that you're wrong to feel the way that you do. [43:35]
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And I hear a little bit of that second piece coming in because...and partly because it's not how your family wants you to feel. It would be easier if you loved him.
CLIENT: Yeah, it would, yeah.
THERAPIST: But I don't think that you feel loving toward him?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Even if that would be easier, that's not how I feel.
CLIENT: And actually I was just thinking about it was, if my family...if my brothers and my mom were okay with it. And just imagining what if they just respected what I wanted to decide and I just felt really different, felt really good.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I wish you could have that in your life too.
CLIENT: (Chuckles) Well, but, I mean, it also serves to, okay, well, I'm not somehow longing for a relationship with my dad. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but the stress is not missing out with a relationship with your dad anymore.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you have detached from that.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. [44:35]
THERAPIST: And kind of accepted that that's a loss for you. And that this stress that they...that your brothers and your mom can't accept that too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And really keep pushing you to have this relationship that you don't have.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I guess it's good that I focus then and figured that out, right (chuckles)?
THERAPIST: It's a step along the way and somehow getting peace with it.
CLIENT: Okay, I feel better.
THERAPIST: I'm glad we were able to talk.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: You're very welcome. Do you...so we're scheduled for Monday?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. [45:10]
THERAPIST: You still want Monday?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That would be great. Yeah, I guess if something changes, I could e-mail you or something -
THERAPIST: Of course.
CLIENT: - a couple days before?
THERAPIST: Yes, as long...24 hours is all I need.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And then I know we had that weird thing where you want to pay full price today or -
CLIENT: Oh, I've been thinking that -
END TRANSCRIPT
