TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: ... feel better. You know how lying in bed, it's just - it just enhances, reinforces the idea that there's nothing really important to do which, somehow, really hit me hard the other day. I can't remember which day it was, Monday or Tuesday night, that - I just felt completely worthless. And, God, I don't even - I don't know what made me feel that way - made me - it was probably Tuesday night because Mondays and Tuesdays are really bad days as far as working and really absorbing all my attention. Because I see families at the end one of one day and in child guidance Tuesday - in child guidance on Tuesday at about 8:00 or something. And as long as I'm sort of worried about those things and being awake enough to do a decent job there and stuff, I'm okay. And somehow, it's like, once I get caught up on something, and then, I suddenly start questioning the value of everything I'm doing. And boy, whichever night it was, I was really questioning it. And, I mean, part of it was - was feeling really alone. 0:03:33.0
I didn't know - there was all sorts of things. 
COUNSELOR: Let me make sure I've got something. Are you saying that when you go through these days and you've really been concentrating and you've really been functioning, that it's sort of at that point that you begin to question - question...
PATIENT: It's not at that point. It's when I get to a point where I don't have to be absorbing myself in (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: After those things?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: After you've - okay.
PATIENT: And I'm not completely oppressed by something that has to be done right then, that takes all my attention. And I just have all these vague things that are hanging over me, none of which I can really see the importance of, that I start feeling like that.
And I still don't quite understand what all it was. I mean, a lot - my boyfriend has been really, really good all week. He's been over every single day to see (the puppy.) And partly, I guess, it was seeming bad that he was the only person that I was really relying on. And to that extent, I don't really (inaudible) and really (inaudible).
It was like there was a whole bunch of things that I really need somebody to talk to. And somehow all I can - I know - it's all very garbled. It's been a really, really strange week. 0:06:08.6
I guess it sort of started like - like Friday night. These friends of mine, a girl that I had gone to college with, who had been my roommate for three years in college, and her husband and her sister stopped by on their way east. And just stayed over night Friday night. And Friday after - Friday afternoon we just all went for a walk to the point, with dogs, and played Frisbee. And it was just really idealic (ph). And it was the first time, in so long, I remember being happy over just enjoying something that I was doing that really, you know, wasn't that special, but was just sort of took meaning because I put it there. And I was able to put it there. And, like, we had a really nice dinner. Somehow, it just sort of sounded - it was like being back in college in a lot of ways. And it was just really enjoying their company, no matter what we were doing or what we talking about. And we weren't really talking about anything - you know, really, as far as getting anywhere or anything. It was just really nice. 0:07:33.6
And after dinner, we were all too full to have desert. And we decided to go out in the street and play Frisbee, which is the kind of thing we would have done at college. And it's the kind of crazy thing that we would have done and enjoyed. And that I wouldn't have even dare mention to friends here. And my boyfriend wasn't too keen on the idea. But since everybody else was, he went along with it. 
And it was just really fun. And what we ended up doing was, my girlfriend's husband decided he wanted to climb a tree. And I just said I wanted to climb a tree. And so we went over to the (lab) school, which is right nearby to where I live. And an absolutely gorgeous tree that had all these branches. It would have been perfect for a tree house. Several people could sit up in it at the same time. And we just sort of sat there and looked up at the sky, found a jump rope and all practiced on that for a while and played Frisbee for a while. And it was just really nice.
And partly, it was a good feeling that something like that could still exist - that that feeling could still exist. And at the same time, made me feel even stronger the fact that I couldn't do that kind of things with my boyfriend or anybody that I knew here. And there had been a time that my roommate and I had gotten close to the point that we could do something like that because she's crazy like I am. But it kind of reinforced the fact that I really couldn't even talk to (inaudible).
And I didn't know it was - it was just - it was the night that I got really unhappy, that I knew it was the night later - maybe it was Sunday night or some time after that between then and today, that I just got really restless. And I'd ask my boyfriend to come for a walk with me. We could take the dog out. He said he didn't feel like it. So I just sort of went out. And I went back up to the tree. And it was really nice. And it was really beautiful. And I said to myself, "You know, you should really feel good now. And this is really a beautiful tree. But you can't enjoy it." 0:09:59.5
And it was funny because, later that evening, I was in a good mood for I don't know what reason. And I suddenly enjoyed being up in the tree. It was like after the fact. But it wasn't until I became in a good mood that I could even appreciate the beauty that I'd seen when I was sort of lying in the tree and looking at the sky. But at the time I was doing it, it was just because I was in such a bad mood, I couldn't enjoy it.
COUNSELOR: Well, the one thing about these things that you were all doing together sounds to me like they're - they're sort of natural. And it's what, I guess, they call as functional progress, just something to do with them, to do something, to do them with people. They didn't have any great (keliological) meaning or anything like that. It was just fun to do things. And you don't - you just don't have those opportunities for some - I'm not sure, like, why you can't do those things with your boyfriend or what - I don't think it's a specific reason. There's something else that I - I'm not getting it.
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean it's...
COUNSELOR: It's like you just don't have the right kinds of relationships or something.
PATIENT: It's like something that's - that I really feel to be missing. It's something that I had with the guy I was going with before this boyfriend. And I really, really miss it. And it's something I have with the - my friends that I visited in Vermont and Pittsburgh.
COUNSELOR: I guess one thing that strikes me right this minute is I'm wondering that part of is that you don't have to worry constantly with these people about how you're hitting them and how they're hitting you. And at least, just the quality of how you're talking it, it's kind of you - even though you didn't see them for a long time, you sort of knew where you were with them and they knew where they were with you, and you could all do things together without worrying about how some folks can see you. 0:11:46.2
PATIENT: That's a - that's certainly a part of it. I mean, a lot of it is just a character of the people and the fact that I do get along with them very well. And it's also true that there's an acceptance there that nobody would ever question, no matter what any of us in the relationship did. And, like, when I was - whenever I would escape from New York last year, I would go visit this girl in Vermont. And - I mean, this night that I got upset, and I was feeling really, really worthless and feeling completely separate from everybody, and he started saying - I said, you know, "Nothing and nobody means anything to me." And that was exactly the way I felt. And he started citing me with the people that I liked, like this one guy I work with that's really nice. And he said, you know, "Don't they have any meaning? And I said, "Yes, they have meaning. They're very nice people. But they're in a separate world. And there's no connection to my world."
And he said, you know, "You are just - really got to learn to make new friends." That that was something that he had to do also, because he really doesn't have any friends that are really close, except a couple of guys that he works with and myself, which is part of the reason that I feel really not liked for myself, but just because I'm the only one there. (Inaudible). And he was really right about that.
And I guess I'm sort of not sure what the next steps to take. I know I've got to do something to organize my life so that I don't constantly have these feelings. And, I mean, it's - they've been really strong for several nights this week - several days this week and very - generally fleeting. Like, last night - well, yesterday was my birthday. And my boyfriend had to work all day. And then he had to go New York last night. And I just wanted to see him for just a little while. Because I really hadn't see anybody else because he meant the most to me. And I just wanted to spend a little time with him. And it ended up being really, really rushed. And he ended up not seeing kind of the importance that it was to me. It's like, he was only going to be gone until Saturday - how important it was for me just to spend a half hour just sitting and talking about nothing kind of with him. 0:15:17.7
By the time we got in the car - and thank goodness he was driving - that - to take him to the airport, I was just like (inaudible). I mean - and he finally just yelled at me. And he said, you know, "Okay, if you want to talk, talk." And - which was not exactly the conditions under which I wanted to talk. And I really, at that point, got to the point where I just didn't - I mean, I was really glad I wasn't driving because I really didn't care if a car hit us, if we hit a car. It was a complete state of non-feeling. 0:16:03.1
And I felt very, very strongly that I wanted to kill myself emotionally. I mean, intellectually, I didn't. And intellectually, I knew that I was together. I was, you know, together enough to not. But emotionally, that was exactly the way I felt. It was the way I felt several times this week.
COUNSELOR: It seems like you are talking in someway about a particular kind of contact. Because, you know, I was wondering before when you said, "Well, these people at work are nice." Yes, but they're not in your world. And what - what is it about people that - that helps them get in your world, so about how you feel about them. I don't present that as a question for you to answer this minute. But, like, that was kind of a thing that was raised for me. And what is it that set a tone. Like, one way of looking at not being able to get your half hour that was very important to you yesterday was that it - there's was a certain kind of contact missing. Like, it wasn't - I mean, he was there and you were there, but the contact - the type of contact wasn't there. And I'm wondering what - do you have any idea what that is? Or what would make one of these people at work come into your world - come into your world or be friends? 0:17:26.2
PATIENT: It's a kind of close friendship, I guess, of being able to just talk to them about anything or to not talk to them about anything. I mean, just to sort of be able to be with them and have them understand how your feeling, if you happen to be feeling any way at all, or do enjoy things with you.
Mostly, in the kind of thing that - that is expressed in the book "The Little Prince," which is that - have you read it?
COUNSELOR: I have, but you must refresh my memory.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: It's been a long time since.
PATIENT: I haven't read it in a long time also. But...
COUNSELOR: Lie down.
PATIENT: To the effect that - I guess they ask, "What is friendship?" And I don't know what it is. And it's a case of - he says, "What does friendship mean?" And he says, "It means to establish ties." And he says, "What does that mean?" And he says, "Something has changed because I know you and because you know me. And somehow you  - " Well, here they're talking about the fox and the little prince. And he says, "You are different. You become special. And you become different from all the other foxes in the world. You become different from all the - other little boys in the world." And to me, that's a different kind of a tie than just saying hello and being friendly to another coworker. And it's something that I really haven't felt. I haven't really felt it possible to establish. 0:19:35.2
Basically, I guess, because I don't - and I haven't - I guess I established a few ties with a few people that used to be in my class and have left since. So that I don't really feel it with anybody in the city right now, except my boyfriend. 
Such that you have something to offer them in a way of just being a person that makes them very glad to know you, makes them - makes there be some kind of mutual attachment that is important to both of you, such that, if one of you left, the other one would be - would have something missing as a result. 
COUNSELOR: Now, in a way, it's a change that takes - is starting a chain of psychological terms. It sounds like one - one piece of it is that you really - I mean, you - it's sort of like mattering to another person or having a particular meaning to the other person. And another part I was hearing is that they - they sort of - well, they take you as you are.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: That - that's some kind of that acceptance. But it's like they're glad to know you and glad to know you as you, not how they would like to change you into it. 0:21:09.1
PATIENT: And, somehow, I get the feeling that - that - I mean, people that I meet are very nice. And they're very nice to me. But, somehow, I have nothing to offer them really. And they don't really need any new friends is the general feeling that I get. And such that - that I really don't contribute anything to make it good for them to know me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so, like, let's say, I don't know, somebody came into HD or something and you really like them and it felt compatible and all that. One of the things that would make it - maybe it's the main thing right now that would keep this from happening is you're feeling like you have been - almost didn't qualify to form a friendship with them. Is that - is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: Something like that, yes. I mean, I suppose that's a good way to put it.
COUNSELOR: Is there something like - is it - is it as simple - or this probably oversimplifies. But even if you like them, they - they have no reason to like you or to want to get to know you, do you feel?
PATIENT: They would probably like me. But that's it, I mean, in a very - you know, I'm not obnoxious. But on the hand, I'm not anything. I mean, I have nothing to make people glad to be with me as a person. This - there's kind of nothing in common, no - I don't know whether no depth, no common ground for being friends, kind of not being interesting or worthwhile to know beyond a very superficial thought, just (geography). (Inaudible). 0:23:55.7
And I don't really know how to change that. And I know I have - you know, what (inaudible 0:24:30.9).
COUNSELOR: You mean whether or not it's really true, most of it is you thinking that about yourself?
PATIENT: Well, it's not just my thinking about it, it's myself. It's my making it true.
COUNSELOR: Or acting as if.
PATIENT: I mean, I present myself that way. Because it's an image I have or myself, or that I have of myself in society of others, not an image I have of myself by myself. But it's kind of a feeling of - to portray myself any differently.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel, at other times, when, like, - such as, in college, that you betrayed yourself in a - in a way like that? Like, how come you knew these people in college that - and that was done?
PATIENT: It's how things were. Partly, I guess, because it was this - this small college. And the few people that I got to know when I first got there - and it wasn't just them because I kept - kept getting to know new people. But the ones that I became good friends, it was a very strong acceptance and a very strong - just sort of taking each other as they were, and kind of valuing of each other. And it was kind of a group kind of thing, the kind of thing as well as individually. I don't really know how to explain it. But it was a very comfortable, easy getting to know people. And it mostly grew out of who - who you lived with, so that it was people in the dorm or mostly roommates. It started out being, maybe, six of us who were the only freshmen in the dorm, who ended up all being very similar. Because we had asked to be in this very old dorm, rather than in the new modern one that - those who were more social, we - fraternity sort of, you know, minded, sophisticated end up being the - so the ones that ended up in my dorm ended up being, if not outwardly - in fact, I never would have probably gotten to know my roommates - this girl from that visit - had we not roomed together because she's so quiet. But we turned out being so much alike. And anyway, what it amounted to was we all just became very good friends. You would room with one girl one year and there would be a change around the next year, but always on good terms. And someone - your former roommate would be rooming with another best friend of yours. And then, two of my former roommates - this girl from Brighton, I roomed with for three years. But two of those years, we also had a third roommate. And then, this girl from Pittsburgh and I also hitchhiked through Europe together. And she became very close there because we were together all the time, and never had a fight. 0:27:47.3
And, you know, a lot of it was just - you know, how much of it was the - that there was a kind of unique personality among the girls that I happen to end up being indoors with, or choosing as roommate. How much it was me.
Except that, like, when I got there, I was petrified. I didn't think I'd ever get to know anybody there. And it turned out to be a very comfortable kind of thing. And it hasn't been in the city. And from I talked to of other friends - in fact, another girl friend, my college isn't - but hates it. I didn't know everyone in college. But it's always nice to talk to her. We share a common dislike of the city and a common inability to meet people or to be close friends with people here.
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like one element - and whether it's there all the time or whether it happened to be there for this group of people that you knew was - it sounds like an atmosphere to, you know, being able to present yourself in a way that you got to knew people - got to know people.
PATIENT: That's true.
COUNSELOR: I don't know if that's true in life in general.
PATIENT: Somehow, it was very easy to find people that were like you in certain ways. And who were just accepting of you. And it sort of ended up being to a feeling that people would like and accept you which, of course, made it easier for them to do that. 0:29:52.7
COUNSELOR: I'd be interested to know how you think you present yourself here. I don't know whether you have any - you know, whether that's ever crossed your mind or whether you care or worry about it all, but do you see yourself here in the same way?
PATIENT: Well, it depends on who I'm with, in what context.
COUNSELOR: No, I mean here, between you and me.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: And how do you present yourself to me, do you think?
PATIENT: I really don't know. Somewhat unfavorably in that I'm focusing on weakness rather than strength. It's kind of hard to tell also because it's - I mean, it's a very one-sided relationship, which nothing else that I've been in has ever been, where I talk about close friends in college or so forth. I mean, one of my strengths with them was my ability to help them when they needed it, to empathize with whatever was going on, to do things with them and so forth, or to talk with them about - just - just to discuss things from their perspective (inaudible 0:32:07.2).
And in that sense, here is a very kind of shallow experience in that it - it deals with pieces of things, often over emphasized and not in context rather than any kind of network of total feelings or thoughts. 0:32:55.8
COUNSELOR: I'm kind of sensing some - either annoyance with that question or annoyance about what you just said. Like, it annoys you that there's just - that it's superficial here and that there's just pieces in a hunk and stuff like that. Is that - is that right?
PATIENT: I don't know that annoyance is the right word. But kind of frustration, I guess, in really not being able to present myself any better or any more completely. In (inaudible 0:33:53.8) you were, I could understand. 
I mean, basically, when I get something out of this, it's because of talking through, by talking recently, I can see you a kind of better integration, such that the weak part of me is the problem part of me or whatever, is a part of a whole, which includes stronger parts which can deal with and, hopefully, change the weak parts. And that's going to be the only time I feel really good on the other hand is in some - how whatever I am dealing with or whatever, a little, little problem comes up, able to be looked at, at least, understood somewhat, grasped an copped with by logic (inaudible 0:35:57.7).
COUNSELOR: You sound very discouraged. You're saying that or as if you're feeling something very deeply about what you're saying. 0:36:12.9
PATIENT: Somewhat discouraged, I suppose, to this - very similar to how I felt several days ago. To have intellectually seen a whole lot of things, emotionally feeling quite - that everything's quite meaningless. That's not quite the right word to use. Not that it's meaningless, I guess, just that it's not meaningful. And sort of being trapped in that not feeling at all or emotionally feeling any way out of it. Part of a lie, so to speak. Which is strange because I thought that I want to die.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I was going to say, it's like, you know, you've come full circle and you're right - you're past - you're kind of now where you were telling me you were in the beginning of the day.
PATIENT: Just feel - I didn't - I didn't (inaudible 0:37:55.8) talk. And it sure (inaudible 0:37:59.8) by talking about it that I was beginning to feel along. Did you notice that the sun went down?
COUNSELOR: Hmm?
PATIENT: It may be because the sun went down. That has a lot to do with it.
COUNSELOR: Generally? Are you more affected when it gets to be night? (Inaudible 0:38:38.2)?
PATIENT: (Inaudible 0:38:42.1). I felt badly today. And talking about it intensifies many times over when it's night. I mean, I feel very good when it's night too. But somehow, when it's a sunny day - I don't know. Maybe it's kind of a religious feeling that there's something greater than I am that's good. And that I can sort of share in that, which is the same kind of feeling that I get when I go camping, like when I go to the beach or - just when I meet anything outside, which is partly, probably, why the city gets me down more than anything else. Because I - I've always - I've often felt very depressed like - well, I used to go walk in the woods at college and stuff. But I'm very lost. I'm never kind of completely despondent. And whenever I would really feel like killing myself, I'm never outside. I'm very seldom outside, and seldom in the day time, sometimes. But if it's day time, it's like I'm trapped in my world (inaudible 0:40:32.5). 0:40:34.1
COUNSELOR: Yes, I was going to say, I'm - I'm wondering if it's most of the time when you're off in some room by yourself that that's when it happens?
I'm not sure that would be an important observation. It's like an image I got more than anything else.
PATIENT: Well, it's - it doesn't have to be by myself. It's feeling by myself very often. My boyfriend if there, in fact. That's generally what makes me feel so alone is the lack of communication. And, in fact, most times I felt it, my boyfriend was there. And it's been times (inaudible 0:41:28.3) communication. And I just - I don't know. I guess, it's a feeling of, "Hell, if you can't communication now with him, you can't communicate with anybody. Or you can't have any ties with anybody." You know, which kind of really amplifies it. I mean, usually, like - I don't know. I just remember one time feeling it really strongly when I went camping with my boyfriend. And he - and I was very - feeling very hurt. And I just went out - went out and sort of layed out on the beach, looking at the sky for a real long time. And, like, an hour or so later, I felt marvelous. And I went back. I felt beyond any kind of petty feelings of being alone. But I can't always go and run to the beach. 0:42:51.9
And I've got to stop feeling this way or learn how to get myself to stop feeling this way because it's fantastically debilitating. I mean, that's why I didn't go to work today (inaudible 0:43:19.6). Because I was just completely trying to forget. I also was kind of hoping. I know I - I've been tired for a long time. And I was just hoping, maybe, if I was awake for a change, then this feeing wouldn't come to me. And I would be able to cope with things better. But also, I didn't feel like there was anything (inaudible 0:43:36.7). And - I mean, it's been going on for a long time. And it's not as bad now as it was last year. I didn't have - then I was - thank goodness, I'm working more now. But then, I was only working, like, one day a week. And I could spend the rest of the days - and I'd stay up until 5:00 and I'd sleep all day and - which was just disastrous for me. Because then I would be in really bad psychological shape all night, and not accomplish anything all day. And I've got to find a little bit more meaningful things to do than that. 0:44:38.2
And I could - well, depression is bad. I mean, it really makes it difficult to do things. And it makes me really tired as far as doing things - that I can still do things. But really feeling strongly suicidal is just - I mean, then, there's no purpose, whatsoever, in doing anything. And you avoid other people like a plague because you're not to sit down and tell them how you feel. And you especially have to avoid your boyfriend like a plague because he knows there's something wrong. And you can't really tell him because it scares him to death. 0:45:49.2
And, I mean, it's highly illogical. Because I'm (vertically) sane in the terms of functioning rationally, intellectually and getting things that need to be done. Feeling wise, it's completely screwed up. And I know perfectly well that I could perfectly sanely go (mental). Just supposedly, I'm not supposed to be very sane. But the reason for not killing oneself are also something that has to be felt rather than intellectually comprehended, which is a problem. You're only sanity happens to be in your intellect right then. And, you know, if there were obligations or something like that, that needed me around, then that would be a very good argument. But there aren't. And so that, in a sense, the only thing that's going to make it not continue to recur - I don't feel that way completely, but I can feel that it's not very far away - or some how to deal with the feeling aspect, or some how to require meaning when meaning isn't there (inaudible 0:47:44.5). And I'm not quite sure how to do it. 0:47:57.4
Because, like, rationally, or perhaps psychiatrically, it doesn't really matter how you feel as long as you can cope, as long as you can perceive reality, as long as you can continue to function well and do a days work, and that kind of thing, and treat other people decently. And - and I can do all those things. There's no problem there. And I guess there is the psychological thing that you have to be - self actualized or something like that, which would probably mean (inaudible 0:48:59.2). And, any way, it's a need that's - that's beyond those normally expressed. But it's so strong.
COUNSELOR: What - what - what's a need that's beyond those normally expressed?
PATIENT: Whatever I'm feeling the need for. I mean, I'm - I'm somehow feeling a very deep need for some kind of thing that I'm not really sure how to express or do what I feel when I walk on the beach or in the woods or up in a tree or whatever. A kind of peace and intense fulfillment, an intense worthlessness - that's not the right word, but anyway - gladness of being. And somehow with it, living is just so mediocre that I can't take it. I mean, it's like - it's like it's really repulsive.
COUNSELOR: We're going to have to stop.
END TRANSCRIPT
