Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So what I am going to talk to you about today, if you are recording, this is really kind of fucked up but I'm hopefully going to explain it correctly because it's gonna be...the theme is, is that my self-loathing has no bounds because yesterday...well in general I just...I mean I hate myself right now. When I'm in a lot of pain I hate myself. I just in general hate myself. I mean really. Just stupid, irrational things. But yesterday was the worst. So I had late training yesterday because we...there is new...with the operating system that's coming out for the tablet there is a significant amount of changes and new things available for accessibility.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Specifically for people who have different types of disabilities. So we were all put into a room and in general like I said end of day I'm just exhausted anyways.
THERAPIST: Sure. [ 00:01:04]
CLIENT: Um, it's too cold and sat down and when I tell you about this you're just, you're just going to be mindblown. So they ramped us up to...I don't know if you know this but with your phone and your tablet if you were blind you can actually turn the screen off...
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: ...so you can't see a darn thing.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So what they did was they taught us all the accessibility options of how to use VoiceOver and how to use something called the rotor and different special gestures...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: ...for all different situations in this, but the one thing was trying to get us to navigate around without seeing the tablet at all...
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: ...using these different commands.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So some combination of voice and gesture.
CLIENT: No voice. You're hearing the voice.
THERAPIST: It's talking.
CLIENT: It's talking to you. So when you press on different words it says what it says...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...um, like, ya know, like if you're on it'll say "Google" and then you do this...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: ...but the thing is to actually open up Google. That just says the word Google. If you wanted to open up Google you have to tap with 2 fingers twice if you turn this on, along with many other things.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Um, and to make sure that we were really getting it, they turned the screens off...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: ...after a while.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:02:21]
CLIENT: And I made the mistake of actually turning to somebody I...it's not really somebody I work with that much, but a colleague of mine, um, and said that my...cuz I was...I was really getting frustrated very easily and I was...I had such a low threshold of (pause) frustration with this...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...partially because of the fact that I was exhausted, but the number one thing is that I understand the blind can't see things to visualize this. I thought this was a little bit of hazing...
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: ...doing this to us. I mean yes, it's gonna give us the experience of being blind...no it's not because if you're blind you have, you have years of gaining special coordination and all this other stuff and I'm just...at some point I just like sort of turned off and just...well I was getting to that point at this point, and just like zoning out, pretending to do what they said and just sort of faking it for the rest of the 3 hours or whatever. And I turned to someone and I was like...they had made some sort of comment and I just had, ya know, for some reason my threshold of frustration was super low and, um, he said to me well you are a little bit of a narcissist so if this is...yeah. So it would make sense that that would happen because this is something you can't just pick up easily like everything else you do. (pause) I don't hate myself for being narcissist. See, I told you my loathing has no bounds (laughs).
THERAPIST: Ouch! [00:04:01]
CLIENT: Yeah!
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: And he hugged me when he said that. I mean it was, like not a hug but like put an arm around me, like you are a little bit of a narcissist so it makes sense that this is something that you can't just immediately just pick up, of course you get frustrated. I don't know if I should laugh or cry about this. I'm certainly not in my own head one, but I have to really now wonder...not I have to live with the paranoia of do I actually like project that to people that I know? (pause) (sighs) Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause) Well, (pause) I guess, um, (pause) on one hand I would imagine, uh, you might appreciate being reassured about not being a narcissist. On the other hand...
CLIENT: Clinically would be nice.
THERAPIST: ...to the extent that—which I'm happy to do. To the extent that you're, um, kind of wanting that from me, which is a fine thing to want, it does (pause) it doesn't address what I think is the deeper concern which is that it's hard for you to have a confident and sort of stable sense of these things, such as you are not a narcissist yourself. In other words (pause) if he, ya know if he says narcissist, you hate yourself for it. I say not a narcissist and it helps—which is good—but the real problem it seems to me is that—and this is not something I'm blaming you for, it's just descriptively the thing that seems to be difficult and painful in this, results from—for whatever reason, which at the moment is at least not clear to me—um (pause) it's uh (pause) yeah I guess it's that you don't have a kind of more confidence of these things about yourself to start with or something...or are kind of. [00:07:46]
CLIENT: I used to be. I just feel like my perceptions off on everything, ya know? And it's so weird because it's like (sighs) am I overreacting. I'm like (pause)...part of it is the fact that I am...it's a lot of things, one of which is that, um, I am constantly right now—and this is just not having to do with me, it just has to do with my job and one of the things they're doing is trying to give you as a trainer an outside picture of (pause) what you are saying and what other people hear (pause) and how basically...what they use the phrase perception is reality all the time.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: For example if someone walks in and they have to wait 4 or 5 minutes to get their phone looked at and if they feel like they've had to wait 30 minutes, it is exactly the same thing.
THERAPIST: I follow, yeah. [00:09:13]
CLIENT: And so you're supposed to come by and entertain them.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, um, what matters is how it seems to them. However, uh different from, ya know, what's actually going on it may be.
CLIENT: And then over this past few months, or year or something like that, it has been hammered into me so much that the way people perceive you is more real than what is inside (pause) and making me doubt everything.
THERAPIST: I have a question.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Um, you said initially that I guess (pause) you said initially that this related to your like boundless self-loathing.
CLIENT: Well, I was mostly using hyperbole there, but...
THERAPIST: Okay, I mean my...
CLIENT: I was making a joke mostly...
THERAPIST: ...mostly about that. The reason that I bring it up is this...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...um, he says you're a bit of a narcissist. You hate yourself for it. My question is if he had said, ya know, oh you're always really nice, or, um...
CLIENT: If he just said you pick up things so fast and because you can't pick up on this fast, that would be a very different story.
THERAPIST: My question is really (pause)...I mean it's sort of two different things looming large here. One is your self-hatred and the other is other people's perceptions of you.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:11:03]
THERAPIST: What I'm wondering is if he had said oh, you're always really thoughtful about people...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...would that have stuck to the same extent. Yes, okay. So if it...
CLIENT: If it, if it was...
THERAPIST: more like a...like in other words narcissist, it could be that that's sticking because of your self-hatred or it could be that that's sticking because it's just how somebody else sees you, and I'm trying to suss out which one you're saying is the dominant...
CLIENT: I don't get enough...
THERAPIST: Clearly.
CLIENT: ...positive feedback.
THERAPIST: Clearly.
CLIENT: Well, what happened yesterday or last week is, is, is irrelevant. You're only as good as...you're basically...everything you do is only as good as the next hour you teach. It's a very high-stress situation.
THERAPIST: I guess so.
CLIENT: And what they're telling you is very true. Because everything I do costs no money, that like it costs nothing for them to really come in that much. It's like a hundred bucks a year or something like that. Just not very much. But the point is, is that though if they get the...if one person gets the idea that Apple isn't perfect, they tell 10 people. If they think Apple is great, they tell one person. (pause) And so (pause) it is exhausting right now and I understand intellectually what they're doing, that you can't run on your laurels or anything like that.
THERAPIST: So you're saying kind of like that, uh, emotionally and in terms of your self-confidence you are so completely trashed inside...
CLIENT: Right now yeah.
THERAPIST: ...that whatever bad thing anybody says or whatever anybody says about, ya know, the 50 million great things you've done don't count, what I care about is the next hour, it really sticks with you cuz you don't really have like um any kind of solid internal sense of anything good to hang on to. Is that...?
CLIENT: That and because...I mean feedback...for example the word narcissist is very specific. I don't think he...he has a degree in like graphic design so I don't think he actually overly understands that. However, it is very specific. Saying that you're always so nice is not specific. Saying that you always have the patience to deal with things even when, ya know, this is, ya know, repetition, that it specific. Do you know what I mean? I'm not getting...I'm not getting enough specific (pause)...
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: ...good things in my life.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:14:09]
CLIENT: You're awesome is not very specific.
THERAPIST: I follow.
CLIENT: Ya know?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like (pause) you catch on to most things very quickly. That's pretty specific.
CLIENT: Yeah. That would be very...that would be another way to say you pick up things so fast that, ya know, obviously this would...you cannot do this so therefore it's going to be frustrating for you.
THERAPIST: Right. Or you always try hard to be patient with people even if they are not catching on quickly. Like that would be pretty specific.
CLIENT: Yeah. The other added to this is the fact that I didn't realize it until later, I really saying to someone my threshold is really low. I don't know, ya know at the time I really wasn't getting out why I in the world I...it was only after I really thought about it.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:15:04]
CLIENT: But actually just to say that and make myself vulnerable like that is really hard.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: I mean I have no problems talking about what I know and what I'm good at, and certain things I'm okay with saying that I'm very bad at but they're things that aren't relevant. That was a very big risk-taking for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I understand. It reminds me of how you told me it can take a lot of effort and kind of energy to talk negatively in here, and that seems to me like a similar kind of risk.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's different in that that's...that was...one of them was a risk in the moment. Because I have...when I come in here I have time to boost my mood and therefore it's not...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...you know what I mean? I don't have the in-the-moment-I'm-talking-about-the-negative-feelings-that-I'm-feeling thing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: If something happened 30 seconds before I came in, it would still be an effort, but it wouldn't be as hard. I spend a lot of time trying to boost my energy (pause) and...
THERAPIST: Yeah. That was spontaneous. I mean this is like scheduled. You can prepare. You, ya know, have some practice at it in here. Like that was just kind of I guess off the cuff and under a lot of duress. [00:16:47]
CLIENT: Especially because of the fact that, ya know, everybody really thought that I was going to take to this really fast because a lot of this stuff is also for people with mobility issues. It was like...you have somebody set this up for you. Nobody who has mobility issues is going to program this to be able to use for them because they couldn't program it to use cuz it's like it's...it is done by somebody...an occupational therapist, a spouse, somebody to do it. Not that. And so it was also a bit of a focus on that, like Debra should take to this like a duck to water. I mean she can't even...like just the other day she couldn't even pick something up without dropping it 4 times, ya know? And because, ya know, my grip's getting a lot worse lately, and (pause) this was just...I mean I've been feeling like hell. I'm getting worst. My health is just swinging up and down lately. I'm exhausted. They have really no answers for me. Um, I've got a feeling that I actually have to get worse before they can figure out what's going on, and so (pause) I'm just...and having to sit down and learn about how to teach this and sucking at it even though I intellectually ya know was processing oh yes, somebody assesses that for somebody else. (pause) Of course this is supposed to be something I'm good at. No, I'm not any good at it. I'm good at being, ya know (pause) empathic to somebody who has mobility issues or visual issues, ya know? But it's so individual that who's going to say that? (pause) And (pause) it's just...I don't think that anybody in that entire room understood what a high stakes situation that was for me...at all. I mean (pause) the worst part is that, ya know, when he said that to me, it was even somewhat said with a little bit of affection. Ya know? He had his arm around me when he did that. Saying that I'm, ya know, like comforting me. Saying, don't worry. That's just cuz you're a narcissist. It'll be okay.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: Like (crying), like saying that's okay just cuz you're left-handed. And if someone could say that so casually that makes me wonder how many other people think that I, like...you know what I mean? It's not even like I have to have this hard conversation with you and I have...I mean it was so comfortable like, as in this is obvious your eyes are blue, ya know? That's kind of a hard thing not to think about (pause). And (pause) I don't necessarily know if I hadn't like actively had a very strong flare, had to go on steroids, which of course doesn't make reactions to anything normal. Um, and, ya know, if there was...if all these dominos fell together if I would have taken it so badly. Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. But it's like...it's so many layers. Like I'm even making fun of myself for having low self-esteem about thinking that I might be a narcissist. Like think about exactly how funny but yet not funny that is? [00:21:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I had sorta thought you are not narcissistic but because of all of the...there's a term, um,
(inaudible at 00:21:16) whatever like narcissistic injury which is sort of like ya know somebody steps on your birthday cake...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...or rains on your parade, or...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: ...and (pause) you're not narcissistic. What you are officially...
CLIENT: And I didn't really come in here for you to tell me no, but when you offered it I was that would be nice.
THERAPIST: That's alright.
CLIENT: I felt like I came in for reassurance of that.
THERAPIST: Right. Um, what you are is right now vulnerable to narcissistic injuries like that because you're self-esteem has been so beat up (pause) and (pause) I mean (inaudible at 00:22:09), I don't mind returning to that, but that's not at all the issue. I just...I think...I don't want to get away from what I think is the more underlying...
CLIENT: Yeah. No, no, no...I agree, I agree. I just was saying, ya know...
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: It just, it's so (pause) I already have difficulty with sometimes giving people in my life the wrong impression and therefore having to deal with the consequences that I'm a little bit hypervigilant about that.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Ya know?
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:22:53]
CLIENT: And (pause) I am also on some level just (sighs) (pause)...I'm kind of wondering what's wrong with me that I was even already getting frustrated and shutting down so fast. I've already like...I shut down on so many things too fast about like oh well I guess I'll figure out the details on this later. Like everyone else was more than willing to when we were given 45 minutes to play with the interface to spend the time playing around and figuring this out, and I'm like ya know what? I don't really see the point at this point. I'm already angry at it and this and that. I'm not going to spend the next 45 minutes doing this, ya know? And I just...I feel like sometimes I am in certain situations...and it's not always black or white or even, this is like categorically, sometimes when I get overwhelmed I'm just like okay, that's great. I need to know the top 3 things I need to know and to walk away and that is it, ya know? Um, I talked to my dad about this briefly. Not the whole thing. But about like the frustration thing.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [00:24:31]
CLIENT: And he reminded me of something that happened when I was 16 or so and - maybe 15, something like that, I don't know—where I was really annoyed with certain things related to math, which is unlike me. Again, like I said normally I love playing around with that type of thing like that, ya know?
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: And I was...really they were doing conic sections—I don't know if you remember conic sections at all...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay, yeah, that's right math. Okay, so I had decided that based upon this that like of all the things that I...I basically made a list of the things that I needed to know because of what I needed to do and what I wanted to do in life and I had made a list of all the trig identities and all this other stuff that I needed to know and then let the rest of it just fall out of my head like a sieve. Like I had decided, I was like okay I want to work with electricity. Therefore these are the identities I need to know. Um, you know, I, for conic sections, what pieces, what do I need to walk away from and then the rest of it I like literally just sat there and just like...and got so frustrated...not frustrated but just got so inundated with information that I just let it just spend no time knowing it and he thought it was really smart. He kept saying how...how this is like...this is the point where when you're being flooded with information you know how to prioritize and like decide what you want to take away from it and not let the rest of it like take up real estate in your brain, which is wonderful and it does. But...and it did feel really...I mean I didn't...I had forgotten about that story at all um and me sitting down and deciding what was important to know for the rest of my life literally (laughs), but (pause) when it happens it's so traumatic to me. I hate it. It doesn't happen that often but when it does it's like yup, I've reached my limit. This is what I'm going to know and the rest of it I'm not even going to even like...I'm going to daydream, I'm going to do something else (pause) and I don't like that about myself. And it makes me feel really...well part of it is being like snotty like I know it all. But then I didn't really feel that way, but, but, um, part of it's also just like why? Why can't I handle this? Why did I get overwhelmed? Why does everybody else not get overwhelmed? Ya know what I mean? It's (pause) that is a zero stakes one because that wasn't like, ya know, describing this. And it was nice being reminded of this, but that I've always been like this. But it was nice to have like a thing that wasn't so dangerous to talk about...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...like in terms of wow I could be so disabled that I need to sit at my tablet for me someday. Um (pause) I don't want to be that rigid though. I don't want to have that happen, ya know? (pause)
THERAPIST: Uh (pause) to what extent do you think it came up yesterday, this feeling of being overwhelmed and frustrated because of the subject matter being charged for you? [00:28:32]
CLIENT: I think part of it is that way, but I've had more than a few things in my life that shouldn't have been that way. I think it was a lot worse. I mean a lot a lot worse.
THERAPIST: Like what do you mean when you say you've have a few things in your life that shouldn't have been that way?
CLIENT: Like (sighs) (pause)...I'm sorry, um...
THERAPIST: What I mean (inaudible at 00:28:52) is I wonder if it was because what you were dealing with was to do with disabilities, which you have and which cause you a lot of difficulty and frustration and pain and so forth, that like maybe you had a kind of emotional reaction to the subject matter which would seem to me not unreasonable given the circumstances. But I don't know, maybe that wasn't it...
CLIENT: I think part of it is.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like I said I think it's part of it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Um...
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. Go ahead. I interrupted...
CLIENT: Like I said, I think it was like a whole bunch of things that all just sort of came together—being exhausted, having been not feeling very well, being like ya know this, being that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It was just like so many things together—the pallet. It is definitely the nature of what was happening there too.
THERAPIST: Yeah, of course it has to do with having been at the end of the day and being more tired and you health has been...
CLIENT: Yeah. And...but...what I'm trying to say is that it doesn't happen very often, but I don't like it when it does, and it's not always because it's emotionally...
THERAPIST: I see. [00:30:12]
CLIENT: Like I had no feelings really about conic sections.
THERAPIST: Laughs. I'm surprised to hear that...
CLIENT: Yeah, like I was very indifferent about that, especially at the age of like 15, 16 years old. Yeah. Um, ya know, and...but there are...this happens in my life from time to time and maybe it's just because of the fact that I work and live in an industry where you get dumped on with information sometimes and, ya know, all of a sudden wow, look at this. Have you heard about this? Ya know, there's a point in which I just get this way where I'm like wow, ya know, this is more than I can handle and (pause) I think that if other people had this kind of issue it would be a little bit more apparent. I mean it would seem like it would be a commonality or maybe I was saying it to somebody else possibly to have someone say yeah, I'm finding this superfrustrating too. Maybe just a look and get like a gauge of wow, is this hard for everyone or just me, ya know? And it was hard for everyone but it was—I'm sure—but (pause) I just...I guess the thing is that I'm just (pause)
THERAPIST: Part of...part of it...I haven't heard you mention this, but I imagine you'd say you've thought of it, is like it seems to me that you mentioned and we've talked about the way you tended to rely on your intellect, which is very powerful and um has uh been of a lot of good use...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um...
CLIENT: Misused sometimes too but that's...that's okay.
THERAPIST: I, um, imagine when, uh, it's overwhelmed and you can't make use of it you react strongly to that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it's, ya know, one of the tools that you rely on the most.
CLIENT: In the Apple world it is called an overused competency.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: By the way, competency number 67. There's like 212 of them or something like that. Competency number 67 is limit on the fly. I have every single (inaudible at 00:33:25) ever had, I've had that as, like considered to be a very good thing, but they call it an overuse thing when you use it so much that you aren't able to cope when that tool doesn't work any more. (pause) It's review time and I have to write like a 10-page like analysis on my growth as a creative and what I...and sort of...it's sort of like justifying like what I've done to become better, so it's in my head a lot. Which is probably again why I'm thinking about this so much is cuz I am...I am put in a different...I am held at a different metric than someone who has only been working for the company for 5 years or 3 years or 2, ya know? (pause) That's kind of rotten. (pause) Do you know what it's like trying to write extensively about how I had developed myself as a person in the past like 12 months? What things I have done and what milestones I have had to date and what things I have actually worked on to develop myself as a human being?
THERAPIST: Tell me. [00:35:05]
CLIENT: It's like justifying why you're breathing. I mean it's easy for the first few years cuz your psyched about the fact that you're learned to have difficult conversations with people, like or ya know like telling a customer that ya know like you relate how you had to tell a customer that ya know that all of their data's gone, or ya know you talk about these things, but at this point in my life and in my development (pause) what am I supposed to be doing? Ya know? Like I can't be at a dead end. I'll get no raises. I won't be considered to be sent out whenever we need like to go abroad or whatever. I can't say that I haven't done anything with myself. But isn't there a point where self-improvement is exhausted? Ya know? (pause) It would be so much easier if I could just say something like, um, ya know, I have gotten better at replacing phone screens or something like that as opposed to like saying things like, um, like bringing these back to these competencies that are life skills instead of like I could check off things that I can do, like I learned how to count all of the cables regularly or something. Ya know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: It's...and for so many years this wasn't a problem, but now that I have so much else going on inside of me and outside in the world, I feel like I have so much pressure to develop myself that it's killing me. It's been making me neurotic, ya know? (pause) And (pause) I don't know, I'm just...(pause) ...when...and I'm not trying to like say it's not the same thing, but when you're only getting (pause) encouragement (pause) from very limited sources and they also sort of have the same problem that you have already, that you take everything and like spin it to the positive, ya know? (pause) It is very difficult to—and that's the only person, ya know, I'm getting this kind of like positive feedback of—oh this just shows how smart you are. Well great. But at the same time it's like (pause) really I don't need to be told I'm smart. Trust me. Especially from those people at work. But I would really like to get something specific, ya know?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. [00:38:57]
CLIENT: And I just don't feel like it's there. And part of it's the fact that I'm isolating myself. I don't see that many people. I'm not getting as much social, like I'm not getting as much social positive reinforcement, ya know? And so I'm relying on the few things I'm dealing with outside of, ya know, my life ya know. (pause) It's just (pause)...I don't know. Exhausting. Sometimes it makes me wonder why in the world I just keep going. Cuz it's like (pause) (sigh) (sigh)...I make sweeping generalizations usually in humor...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...but I really feel like my life has been going downhill for years and years and years and that there isn't really...that all of the things that are awesome and happy and things that I could be...ya know things that are pleasant in my life, I've already finished those.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: And now it's just a steady decline of indignity, pain, exhaustion, low self-esteem. Ya know what I mean? It's like (pause) and I'm not really sure what to look forward to. (pause) And if I truly knew that there was going to be something in my life that was going to go...basically if I had something...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: ...to really look forward to in my life any more, I think that I could handle all this stuff. I wouldn't self-doubt myself. I wouldn't feel this way. Cuz if I just knew that (pause), that there would be something in my life that's going to make me really, really just happy. And I think that...I think that I wouldn't be so affected, because I have something to look forward to in life, ya know?
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: I really don't have a whole lot to look forward to in life. (pause) I talked about this vaguely...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...with somebody at work cuz Sunday night was my wedding anniversary and they were like oh, what're you guys doing? What're getting for each other? And I'm like I don't think you seem to understand something. Aside from like Rolex watches and Leer jets, that we've already done this all and there really...to, to buy or go do something—I mean obviously a vacation—but like anything that we could do like over the weekend has already been done and is not just like duplication but it's waste, ya know? Um, ya know, we have...all the high-ticket items that are supposed to show that you love one have been purchased at some point or another. All of the places to go—not here because we don't have any money—but you know we had a good life. It's already over, ya know? We went to some wonderful, magnificent places to eat. We've traveled everywhere. But, ya know, enough that when you don't have any money going...when you don't have any money to spend at all, going to some place just that is crappy and like locally just seems, ya know, to spend money seems like a waste to me. Why not just save it and go somewhere later, ya know? It just...it seems like a waste of money. It seems like a waste of time. And so, the same thing with my life right now. It's like well, all of the like important parts of my life are over and I can't really have children and so I don't really know...I don't really know if we'll ever really be able to adopt and, um, ya know I feel like I have to...I have to be looking forward to anybody in my life. Like it's not like oh, I'm gonna graduate or I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna go out there and have this 10-year goal or something. There's nothing to look forward to in my life at all. [00:45:00]
THERAPIST: We're gonna stop for now. Um, we'll talk more on Thursday. One thing I wanted to raise is would it be easier to meet at a time that was later in the day during the week?
CLIENT: Yes! Yes.
THERAPIST: Um...
CLIENT: If that's okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. So I would say this would be true in general.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay. Okay. So I regularly have 11:45 on Fridays. Is that any good?
CLIENT: Usually it would be. Um, I'm not certain. I have to be somewhere at 9 this Friday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Um, which I don't necessarily know if...well...um (pause) I don't...especially lately this week, yes, but let's talk about it next time long-term moving it to that day.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: Sure. So we'll meet on Thursday this week.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And talk about it for the future.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, no problem.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. And so if it comes out that it turned out it would be better to meet then, just let me know before Thursday, otherwise...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Because if that's not good, I'd probably find something else.
CLIENT: I appreciate that. [00:47:04]
END TRANSCRIPT
