TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This is interview number 12; 1979, client number 0729107. Hi.


PATIENT: Hi. [inaudible at 0:41]


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:42]. I finally took to walking on the grass.


PATIENT: I tell you, I got into these classes that are a half credit apiece. I feel inundated, you know, they completely cancel out Monday, Wednesday and Friday all afternoon. You can just get something going in the morning and then all of a sudden it's time for you to stop. 


COUNSELOR: It makes you feel kind of frightened of it too, doesn't it?


PATIENT: Yeah. I was talking to Susan last night and I kept thinking, I never have really a joy going down to this school because I was so committed to it and I have so much to lose if I ever relaxed about it. I'm sure that must have had tremendous influence on the fact that under the right kind of pressure I would at least pull through, but I tell you I wasn't going to be very creative. And then we're doing much more than just pull through lots of times. 


COUNSELOR: And it wasn't fun.


PATIENT: No. No, not at all, and I think this is the way this degree has almost gotten to be. Just the fact that it ceased to be much fun, it's a matter of x number of requirements that I have to get through and I think it's destructive from that point of view. You know, if you've live under that so long that it seems like the only way to do it, and yet occasionally you'll run into a person that says, I really enjoy taking this course or that course, they're just very relaxed and all that sort of thing. And I kind of look at them, strangely because that's not the way it seems. I've felt like if I relaxed that relaxation would be paramount to doing nothing. 


I don't know what to say about things like that. It's uncomfortable sometimes because you do tend to put all in you eggs in one basket. It was interesting, when I first went into this program I realized that I didn't think I was going to be under the same pressure because ultimately I could always go back and practice optometry. And I still can. It's just the fact that by being in the program there's a certain degree of expectancy on my part and on what I feel the part of other people is, is that I will go ahead and finish the program.[04:10]


COUNSELOR: And so you can't count on going, well I could drop out anytime and go back into practice.


PATIENT: The thing that it is, you know, is that I look at people who changed their major fields of interest, you know, they're going for a Masters in this and then they switch over to a Masters in that, and wow, that would just completely destroy me. And yet they seem, on the outside, to be okay about it. And to some extent on the inside they're not really, not turmoil themselves for having started something and not finishing it. I guess this is the whole way that I attack things. What I have to find is responsibility. If I start something and see it through, there's no way I can say it's too big for me I'm going to just quit. It goes back to something that I did activities in high school that I just really have always, always regretted. I was playing baseball and I was also working, so I would get up at 4:30 in the morning and do all my papers, and then go to school at about 8:15, had to stand school all day and go at three o'clock and play baseball and get home six thirty, quarter to seven. That just physically destroyed me, so I just got tired of doing this. I got really tired, so I quit it and boy did I ever regret it. When you're going through adolescence, the idea about being known is very important and so that when I quit that and I ceased to become known, I ceased to be identified with that area, I think in a way my adolescence dissolved and just stopped right there because there is still that feeling, and I think it's kind of like an adolescent feeling, you know I want to be famous, I want to be known. [06:44]


COUNSELOR: But it sounds too like also somehow, that that's kind of the epitome of what happens to you... 


PATIENT: You start something and don't carry it through. 


COUNSELOR: And you lose something that's very valuable and very desirable.


PATIENT: And so when other people... I never could understand why people who had never played baseball could go to the games and enjoy themselves. I'd go to the games and I would see people who were much behind me either in talent or in years, they'd be out there playing; I just couldn't enjoy it, really couldn't enjoy that at all. But other people seem to, because they can just get a kick out of it. 


COUNSELOR: But you kept kicking yourself all the time you would want to [inaudible at 07:47]


PATIENT: I have a feeling that if I quit, if I were to quit something else, If I were to quit this program, really I'm not that unhappy in it but I think I'd want to quit it. It's just that there are times when it all seems to be worthwhile, and there are many times it just seems ridiculous. You know, what am I doing here? Those times are especially acute when, like last night on the phone, we had 103 dollars in the bank to go for the rest of the month of March. That becomes very acute. How am I going to ever get us some money to run the rest of the month? Will we have to go into the savings? Because the savings are gradually going away, and then what happens when the savings go away and we have 103 dollars. Another one of these...


COUNSELOR: And then you feel well what am I doing here being a student when I could be out making money? [08:50]


PATIENT: People who graduated at the same time I did, were even in the service at the same time I was, they've been out now almost five years, and five years is the big turning point in the optometry practice; you have your regular group of patients, after five years you've just about made all the payments on the equipment, granted you have to update it and buy new equipment but the initial 20 to 30 thousand dollars it takes to set up a optometrist practice is pretty much on its way of being paid for. So you begin to take on other expenditures, like the first 30 thousand, 40 thousand, 50 thousand-dollar house, a new, bigger car, a boat, this sort of thing. And this is what the people are now... another five years, the same people will have bigger cars, bigger houses, bigger boats and will have probably a [inaudible at 09:55]. And here I am, I haven't even got my one little Chevrolet station-wagon paid off yet, you know, I'm hanging on that for three years. This is something that comes up and really kind of hits you in the face sometimes, mainly when there's only 103 dollars; it's really uncomfortable. And you can rationalize all you want and say, well are you happy? Yes, I'm very happy with what I'm doing but that makes me unhappy - 103 dollars. And even though Susan doesn't push, she really doesn't. Susan pushes me by asking me questions that have no answer. And yet the training I have, from a practical point of view, would be three years of nothing. It would be helpful, yes, it would be broadening, yes, it would maybe help peripherally, yes, but as far as being anything that's directly, 100 percent applicable, it would be nothing because there is definitely a split there between any specialty that you're doing and general practice. So I feel like I can't quit but sometimes I feel like I need to quit. 


COUNSELOR: Or you need to feel, I could quit if I really wanted to quit. [inaudible at 11:30]


PATIENT: Right. That is so much the sense that I have of a lot of areas. It's the sense that I have about what I'm doing. It's the sense I have about marriage. I cannot quit marriage no matter how uncomfortable or how destructive it might be, or how unhappy I would be in it. Not that I'm really all of those things right now, but no matter how much I was hurting in a marriage, I couldn't quit it because of all the connotations that divorce brings on for you, and all the unhappiness that I see the people who are divorced in. Then I know that I could multiply that unhappiness by a factor of two or three and have myself. I don't only have the general unhappiness surrounded with the divorce and the separation of things and children especially. But I don't feel free really to make the statement that I want to stay married just because I want to stay married because of all of this other jazz. And that really gets in the way of saying; I want to stay married because I enjoy my marriage. I don't know how to do that. I really want to be able to just say that I do this because I want to do it, and when I don't want to do it I can always not do it. That's just like a very practical example, and having 103 dollars in the bank. 


You know Susan asked me last night, I think she's leading up to telling me the real facts of life - that we only have 103 dollars. But she was saying, let me ask you a question, how do you go in for an hour and really just start in your therapy? I said you kind of have to ease into it. You know how you sit around and talk about the weather or something like that. Well, we do that for about 30 seconds. And that's the way it's always had to be for me. But I guess I'm beginning to wonder why it has to be like that. What can I do to not make it so much like that? What would happen - I've thought about this and it's my greatest fear, it almost happened this morning, it's almost happened several times - to come over here and have nothing to say. What could we do? I would be paying six dollars, which doesn't sound that much, and it's not much. But to me six dollars is more than I see in every two to three weeks. I never carry any money because we just don't have any money extra for anybody to carry around, just to carry money. So, what would happen if I came over here and I just was mentally or verbally constipated? It would just be horrendous. 


And that's the way my life seems to... that's the pattern I see I've gotten to that there is no range for it really. The responsibilities that I have to be met. That there's no way, unless I made a commitment to say with all good conscience, there's no way that I can [inaudible at 15:13] by saying that I will not be completely excluded from ever being asked to make another commitment so that that responsibility, while on the outside is what everybody wants, which somehow it's very destructive. And I don't know how to attain the freedom and be able to live with the feeling that I let people down, the feeling that I wasn't able to handle the situation. [15:53]


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 15:56] even wonder about that.


PATIENT: Well this is the first time I've even wondered. I didn't know that people could do that.


COUNSELOR: That's something you didn't even look at or consider. I wonder in terms of exactly ending up coming here, it sounded like you were saying that you feel it would be awful if somebody just didn't have anything to work out and to talk about, to deal with. And I'm wondering whom it would be awful to?


PATIENT: It would be awful to me; it would be awfully uncomfortable to me too. I do respect your time and I think it would be kind of ludicrous to come and just shoot the breeze on nothing. I would almost consider it avoidance. Because I would know that there were things that were bothering me and that if there is anything that's bothering me this is the only time I have to get to what's bothering me. It's a thing that I can't understand, I can understand it intellectually, but my God it makes me angry because Susan obviously has some problems, she seems so damn slow in bringing them up. That to me is a gross lack of responsibility. You've got a problem - go and take it and solve it. I don't give a damn if it's uncomfortable for you. I never said that to her, but I've often felt like it. Here you've got that problem why don't you go and work it out, because this is the way I've always attacked that. You know, comfort has never been a word... it's a word I use a lot especially professionally, this should be comfortable now Mrs. Smith, you know that speech? I use that word a lot, but as it applies to me I have never concerned myself with being comfortable. Comfort and responsibility seem to be the antithesis of each other. 


And that's the next thing, because I don't know that it has to be that way. The responsibility says, you have to do a good job at work, you have to do a good job at home, and if that means staying until 12:30 or 1:00 o'clock every night and getting back up at 6:00, then that's what has to be done. Where I would be comfortable enough to sleep in some mornings, and say well, life will go on without me. It would be comfortable to take a weekend and say, you kids go ahead and just quiet, this weekend I'm just going to do whatever I feel like. And that would apply to Susan too. Maybe that would set a precedent that the other side could happen sometimes and it wouldn't be very comfortable for me. Most importantly, it just wouldn't be very comfortable because here someone is busily scurrying around, and I feel the responsibility or the impulsion of doing my part. And when I've done her part, it's interesting, that same conditioning, that same responsibility conditioning, I'll often follow Susan around like a damn puppy dog in the house when she's working just to try and do some work with her so that it's like I'm working too. That really must sound insane but deeply ingrained this responsibility stuff is. I think a lot of it, if you become employed in a service that requires that service be rendered every day, 365 days a year, you get into the habit of never taking a day off. And that's what that is. I started when I was 10 years old in that type of service because, it doesn't sound like much, but your paper comes each day at your house. I was always the one that delivered that paper. [20:46]


COUNSELOR: An awful lot depended on getting it there in the morning.


PATIENT: Well, the simple fact it was. If when you felt like it you just took off, you didn't [inaudible at 21:10]. I was always taught that you had to stay [inaudible at 21:18]. 


COUNSELOR: Kind of a survival...


PATIENT: Right. Life has basically been a survival phenomenon for me. Barely keeping my head above water, never trusting the idea that I could roll over on my back and float. Which is probably a better analogy than...


COUNSELOR: I've been hearing that, like if I took a weekend off, I'd probably continue for the rest of my life taking weekends off. And then some is feeling that you couldn't trust it to be just the weekend off. That then you'd let go completely and be gone.


PATIENT: Right. Like I guess if I felt like it I wouldn't get up and function every morning, then I don't know when I would get up and function. I don't know if I could do that because of the fact that I'm so conditioned not to think in terms of that. I don't know, it's I guess much the same hang up I've had about things like having relationships with other women. The fact that if I ever were to go to bed with someone else that would mean the end of y being able to come back at least with a relationship with them. I'd spend the rest of my life playing bed hopping. It's the idea about as long as you stay rigid then you know where you are. Something that's very flexible, something that's very amorphous, never takes on any shape and you never can describe the shape. So I guess I opt for staying rigid and disciplined and staying to do the same work.


COUNSELOR: You kind of think, I want to be responsible. That's the way I want to be, but I'd like to be free to have some flexibility in that. [23:46]


PATIENT: Yeah. Your responsibility, you know. I went out there in the house and I was doing some work on Sunday. Susan was working diligently on her course work, and the kids were all sick with some kind of sniffles. I told Susan on Friday night that sometime over the weekend, even though the kids are sick, I just wanted to go skating, to go play hockey, because I really enjoy that. And it's getting to be Sunday afternoon and I babysat Saturday and babysat on Sunday and I was really feeling sorry for myself because no one seemed to provide time for me to go to play hockey. Well finally I just got my nerve and I just told Susan I was going to play hockey and went over to Midway and skated for a grand total of 15 minutes, came rushing back. Felt better, which you know, evading responsibility for 15 minutes, and that's about my limit. I can lie down in the crisis time, the crisis time with three children is between the time I get home and the time they go to bed. That's always crisis time, that's always 350 miles an hour everybody has to go. Then they have to be fed and occasionally bathed and stories and anything you're going to do like little games or projects have to be done. God! That's the time I'm most likely to be irresponsible. But just seeing the fact that Susan has to be responsible and I'm irresponsible I can't. I can't cope with that. 


COUNSELOR: And yet, it's interesting to me that you put it, okay I did all these things on Saturday and on Sunday, being very responsible all day Saturday and all day Sunday. You couldn't say I'd like 15 minutes off to get a little rest and go play hockey it had to be I want 15 minutes off to be irresponsible. It sounds like it would have to be the reverse, so I can get some time off. [25:56]


PATIENT: Yeah, that, and things were always very black and white for me. There were responsible actions and there were irresponsible actions. Putting your money in the savings account was responsible, to buy a record was the most irresponsible thing you could do. Having a date, taking her to a nice show is responsible, just going out and standing around and wandering around, that's irresponsible. I just flat out wasn't allowed to just go out and just relax and kind of scuff my heels along doing nothing. I had to have a date, get a date and then go downtown, but don't just go out by yourself you've got to go out with the boys because the boys always get in trouble. The greatest story of my life, it sums up my life, is the story of old dog Roger (ph). That so conditioned me that I felt that if I went along with anybody that I'd be shot because old dog Roger got shot. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 27:13]


PATIENT: Well old dog Roger was kind of a dumb dog and this group of young aggressive dogs came along and they talked old dog Roger into going with them on their gadabouts. And old dog Roger went along with them kind of reservedly, but old dog Roger is old and slow so they went into someplace and the farmer came out with his gun and all the rest of the dogs were very quick, they moved off and here's old dog Roger, and old dog tray got shot. So you can't be like old dog Roger otherwise you're going to get shot at. 


So the work ethic was driven into me so strongly, it was driven into me by my father who never could live up to it, which drove it in to me even stronger. So then why rebel, why the rebelling like most people do, my rebellion was to become more responsible and more rigid which is not what you usually think of as rebellion. Usually you think of rebellion as being more carefree and the antithesis of the work ethic, spend money all that sort of thing. But I feel like I've missed a lot.


COUNSELOR: You're feeling that's okay in one sense, but there's a whole part of life I don't know, a whole sense of feeling free. And feel what I feel like doing, not what I ought to do. [29:04]


PATIENT: No. I've never been free from that pressure. I met a guy who graduated from medical school, and was not married and went into the service and it appeared to me that he had a great deal of freedom. [Inaudible at 29:23] the pressures of a situation like a medical school, they had no pressures at home, nobody holding the stopwatch to see if they were 5 minutes late. And that's what happens, what really happens and it's something that I can't walk into and say, you know, okay I'm fine. It's gotten 600 percent better in the past two years, but it's still if it's just a quarter of six when I go home I can just expect to walk in the door, find Jimmy crying, the two older boys fighting and Susan just as mad. And all of a sudden I have the whole situation dumped on me, and telling me what an irresponsible father I am. It's a kind of a gross statement about my life. I listened to some black poetry on the weekend on a record and there's one called "Racing with the Sum", the typical, I think it's Langston Hughes, but it's typical of dealing with the fact that you... it's a struggle, life is a constant struggle and it puts it in such a negative setting and there are things that have to be done, they have to be done on time. I'm used to that, I'm so used to it, it frightens me to question that I have never allowed myself the ability to question that. And I definitely want to question it now. I feel kind of guilty about questioning it. [31:25]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I can see that.


PATIENT: I'm scared as hell.


COUNSELOR: You're shaking the foundation.


PATIENT: Right. For all I know I could cop-out and really cop-out very strongly. I could go and leave that hospital over there and leave that family over there, and go off to some hog farm and that would be the worst that I could think of. Because when I came back the hospital would no longer be there for me, the family certainly would not be there for me, this is at least what I project. So that, that conditioning has worked well. I allowed me to - my mother died right after the semester of my freshman year. There was maybe daybreak during the semester. So she died the first week after semester break. And on the way back the plane had engine trouble, so we circled and almost fell out of the sky, came back in. So I came in at three o'clock in the morning, Charlotte airport. Met with Susan, talked with Susan for about an hour, we got back to the dorm at four and at six I was up again and I was in class at eight o'clock. And I stayed in class all day, which was a Friday. Then I had the weekend to look forward to. There was no time to grieve, I didn't allow myself time to grieve. I had responsibilities, I had to go home and make sure my mother got buried. I did that. I came back. There was no way that there was any emotion; there was no way that I could spend two weeks grieving over that. 


If it were Susan, there would be no time for me to grieve; I would have to pick up right then, because if I didn't pick up right then, then I'd never pick up. That's what my father did. He didn't ever allow himself the time to grieve. He kept on with his responsibility because at least he was a complete [inaudible at 34:10]; he never made any money, always spent more than he had and all that sort of thing. But he had a tremendous responsibility toward us. I guess the reason it feels good to talk about it, it really feels good to talk about it was that I can see from that perspective that that responsibility was [inaudible at 34:24]. It so tied him in that when he needed, when he needed something like needed two weeks, or three weeks to just have no one to answer to. If he wanted to go out and buy him 15 whores in a night he could do it with nobody looking over his shoulder saying, you're not supposed to do that, especially after your wife died. He never could, he was not allowed to do that, and he had the responsibility he had to take care of the children. What it eventually ended up doing was that none of the three children would have anything to do with him. He wound up finding that the only way he could be carefree and irresponsible was to tip the cork from the bottle. That was probably his outlet for irresponsibility, because under the influence he could be irresponsible. And I see that destructive influence on him. I can intellectualize it and all that, but the scary part is I've got that same trace, the same inborn trace.


COUNSELOR: You can see yourself in the very same way.


PATIENT: Right, and it's only occasionally that I say, you know, you're a person. I don't allow myself to say that I'm a person. Functionally, if something's bothering me I tell a person, that's about it. That's not where really applies, and it's destructive in this respect. But Susan and I tend to weigh things: I babysat for her all Saturday morning and Sunday morning when she was at church, therefore I should have equal time free. That's what we call weighing things. No, it's very destructive because that's exactly sometimes what I get when I come home: well, I've had responsibilities up until the time you get home. They're yours. [36:51]


COUNSELOR: That's not much better. 


PATIENT: I don't know why; she's a very fine woman. She understands I have some of those of those features; it's nothing to do with her, it's in me. It applies to my profession too, the responsibility I have to the profession. And sometimes I don't know how to rationalize, intellectualize, and come up with something that would seem like a Picasso. It's once again a type of responsibility. If I am qualified, if I deem myself qualified to practice pathology, then I have to deem myself qualified to have all the answers. That's crazy. Intellectually I know that's crazy but it always works that way. And how do I get my brain hooked up with my more important understanding of what's going on.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 37:59]


PATIENT: Yeah, it's really frightening. You know I could talk for hours about this and [inaudible at 38:07] like hell to resolve it. And I guess sometimes I want to just say, please let's remember this for next time. I don't want to stop discussing this. It seems like ultimately I don't even have to say that because it comes back around, and it tends to come back around about. And I really would like to work that out. I really feel like I have to. If I can't... I just want to feel that I can work that out, if I can work that problem out then my life is not going to be a rose garden but it sure as hell is going to be able to make some more sense, to be more livable.


COUNSELOR: That in some way you'll have more to [inaudible at 39:05] it. Feel freer.


PATIENT: You know I think [inaudible at 39:13] and not because... you see the other thing is when you have so much responsibility and something like this is [inaudible at 39:26], and that throws me into just tremendous turmoil, because I am responsible also to Susan. I shift that same responsibility over to her, and so now I'm responsible to two people instead of one. Personally, I guess that responsibility is working for the good, it usually destroys any kind of relationship that I might have with a person. Personally I've always considered that good in my religious tradition. You can only love one person, especially members of the opposite sex; you can only love one person. But it hasn't been good because those things hurt, the inability to really have meaningful relationships with other people because you then take on all the responsibility for them, is a destructive thing. So if you could right out an 80-word summary for me as to how I do that, I'll read it and verbalize it. I don't know how you work that out. How can I go about getting to resolve that great problem that is inside? It helps to talk, yeah; it helps to see it, yeah. But like I said, seeing and talking about is a brain phenomena, an intellectual phenomena, then you think God it's still going to be there. It's almost like you need kind of a therapeutic session where you begin just to... you know you need a lab. This is the lecture portion, you need a lab to try and work out that. Whereas the first laboratory period you get used to all the instruments, the same with the laboratory here, you take the first five minutes in complete irresponsibility and work on it gradually. In the lab you're responsible, and supposedly you're supposed to be able to take the lab material outside, right? It doesn't seem to work for me. I don't know when would be a good time to start being irresponsible. I'm sure that I'm scared of ever being irresponsible, the fact that I'll always be irresponsible. 


COUNSELOR: That's certainly one thing I see. Another thing is you're saying I'm talking about it's all up here, it's all in the head kind of thing. It's full of words, full of responsibility, irresponsibility. And if you get it down to concrete things - I keep thinking of going to play hockey - because that seems very concrete. And then I immediately get this reaction from you, well going to play hockey is irresponsible, taking time off to do something like that is irresponsible, defined as irresponsible. And then I have this vision of the way you said it like you couldn't stand it anymore and in a very angry way, well I'm going to go play hockey anyway. [43:06]


PATIENT: And it didn't feel good at all.


COUNSELOR: Then it didn't feel good to you, you felt like you'd done something bad, and it left a bad taste behind you.


PATIENT: So I went out to the Midway and I played for 15 horrible minutes and there was none of this freedom to say, it's just really nice to be out here skating. And you know, hockey is one example tennis is another. I don't even play tennis because tennis is irresponsible, tennis in difference to the game of hockey - see the hockey is interesting - because the hockey [inaudible at 43:52], it's only tie. Now if you couple time with a buck and a half or two bucks that it costs to go to the parks to play tennis, plus the fact that you might sneak in a coke which costs a dime and a candy bar which costs a dime, and you're spending up to three or four dollars, that is the height of irresponsibility because we don't have three or four dollars to lose that way on one person's activity.


So another more expensive example is hunting, but these are things that I have said to myself, you won't do. And so it's so traumatic when I went into Virginia (ph), we went fishing, this traumatic thing about a license, and three dollars. We got up very early and stayed up late that night. The girls were very tired. You can't imagine how frightening it is to get up at five o'clock in the morning and not be able to make a sound. But I did it. And so we went fishing and I enjoyed it from six o'clock until eight. Just immensely. And for some reason I looked at my watch because we'd been out and I knew the time was flying, and I was enjoying my time so I wasn't [inaudible at 45:18]. I was enjoying what I was doing, and I checked my watch at eight o'clock. I look at my watch every fifteen minutes and after eight o'clock, and every fifteen minutes I knew what was going on at home and began to feel worse, and worse and worse, until the last two hours of fishing were no fun at all; I didn't even catch anything, I didn't even try. There was just no fun at all. Because basically Susan doesn't like the idea of fishing, she doesn't like the idea of tennis but that's at least less frowned upon than fishing. Fishing's in very poor favor right now. It's a beautiful thing to do; it's just lovely and a delightful experience but you can't convey that it's a wonderful experience. People just don't believe you; they can't understand why a fishing rod and cigar are fun. But I found it, so I've almost conditioned myself not to go fishing any more. I use all the rationales they use. I don't play tennis, I use all the rationales that they use, you know, the kids are at home. The hockey once, again, it's just not too irresponsible because I could take two out of three boys with me. I don't have any fun skating that way but at least I've got my skates on and I can occasionally leave them standing somewhere and say, say guys it's time for you to rest, and I'll take a turn around the ice-rink. 


And God, when I verbalize all of these things, there's feelings that I have that I don't verbalize, because if I verbalize them to Susan then she tries to act on it. Well I'll provide you more time. Any Saturday that you want to go play tennis you can. And you can set up a time for it; you can go play tennis on Saturday morning, because then you have all Saturday morning long. But that doesn't help either because suppose I get up and go to the tennis courts, and I have to wait until ten o'clock I just get clutched. And then conversely I see the antithesis of what I'm saying, the golf bum who plays a round of tennis and sits in the club house for four hours just kind of hating to go home. 


I can see how complex it is, I don't know that I'm giving it all over to you. It's such a complex situation, the fact that it's not as simple as just saying being irresponsible. It's not that simple. It's involved with all these other things and all these other complications and all this business, so much so that I called on one of my colleagues about this child having problems with his glasses prescription and he wanted to get over and all this sort of thing. And his wife was telling me that he rushed home form work yesterday, took the kids to play hockey, brought them back, ate dinner and then rushed out to church, and I thought, oops, I better rush home one of these days and take my kids to play hockey. 


It's a bad situation. At least I'm half responsible to my work, and half responsible to my family; there's an equal split there. But it's a split that way, there's never any irresponsibility. It's already split for the responsibility and I get to thinking I've been [inaudible at 49:11] on the others. I've been very critical of those who weren't responsible. I envy them but I had to put them down. I had to [inaudible at 49:23] why it was important to be responsible. It didn't seem like there was any happy medium. I guess that's what you can say, is that there doesn't seem to be any happy medium. The part about the irresponsibility over the weekend with the hockey, there was no irresponsibility there. It was responsible and I went, I told her I would go for an hour, I didn't go for an hour and that's because in my sense of responsibility for an hour was too long, so I came right back. [50:00]


You know I look at her and she says, golly I sure like having time to stay in town and not have to catch a train right back out here. So I sit around and talk with my students, and sit around and talk with the people I work with. That's very important. And I think, well, that's shitty of you to say that is really poor; I never do that. I go to work, and I never sit around and shoot the bull with the boys; that's a waste of time.


COUNSELOR: You feel very angry with her.


PATIENT: Yeah, excepting my advisor, he says, it looks like the work is just not being done. And I'll say, well I'll tell you why the work is not being done. It's that I'm the only one working, the rest of the guys are just sitting around discussing whether it's better to have a Ford or whether it's better to have a Chevy. And they do, that's a waste of time. And I'm conditioned not to waste time. You go full tilt. This is a waste of time, and there have been times when I've felt a certain degree of, why are you doing this? 


COUNSELOR: Like you really should be getting to work and not...


PATIENT: Yeah, but this is work. We're getting to work here. This is important; it allows me some hope for the future that I won't end up like my father. Today I feel very much like I might end up like my father. It's the first time I've felt that way in a long while, and that's not very comfortable. It's very scary. 


COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 51:47]


PATIENT: I have occasionally felt bad about the things I've told you about, I have. But it's interesting that this is the first time that a lot of anger has come out. You know, there's another side that I really affirm here, that there's a lot of anger that I have toward her that she's always been able to seem to get out and express at me. After a party, she was always able to get over her problems with that party in the way. I acted by giving me a lecture on how I screwed up. And she got over the anger.  I think something she has been yelling at me for several years now when we eventually do have our arguments, when we have our blowouts they are horrendous.  I just completely destroy her because I am so angry. There is no mildness about that anger; there's nothing pleasant, there is nothing loving about it. It is just pure out and out anger.[52:51]


COUNSELOR: It's been stewing?


PATIENT: It's been stewing, and so has this business about anger with the responsibility. We were talking about an article last night that we both happened to read in the paper in Ann Landers' column on Sunday about this guy, how they gotten their children up and raised, his wife goes to the doctor because she wasn't feeling well and they had plenty of money now and they were going to start doing things. She went to the doctor because she wasn't feeling well, and she's pregnant. And he couldn't understand why she wouldn't get an abortion because this was going to be their time in life. And she didn't seem to be willing to do that. I said to her, well, if that were the way it's worked probably they wouldn't be able to have any of their time anyway because they never learned how to do it really. And it's just interesting that came to mind, because that's exactly how I feel now that I'm in my thirties. There have been 30 years. I guess when I was four and five I didn't feel a great weight of responsibility, certainly I felt some: you had to pick up your room, you had to mow the yard; you had to weed the flower bed, you had to grow the garden, you had to do this, you had to do that. You can see how you're still in the same rigid sense of responsibility. It has to function. There's no time for them to be free. And yet it's chaotic if they don't function. [inaudible at 54:37]


COUNSELOR: Like the business for being responsible in order to get it [inaudible at 54:59], you're telling me that it's all tied up with being responsible and being at work. That that's where it gets really tough, it's the only way you can be defined as worthwhile is to be responsible.


PATIENT: I guess what I'm saying is that I'm scared of ever starting to be irresponsible because I'll be completely irresponsible. I'll go completely the other way, and yet I can see that being so rigid and so responsible, that that's not going to work for years and years and years. I'm going to burn out very quickly and then come all the other problems about my ignorant death. That is the final dovetail and my inner death is going to close out the picture before I ever have my [inaudible at 56:05]. 


I think that some of those names that we talked about before sort of like just kind of dovetail into this whole idea. It's funny because Susan's father and mother were down for the holidays and we always thought that they were sort of kooky. He was talking about when they first had their two children, that he went to a psychiatrist for ten times, for ten sessions. And what eventually came out of that psychiatry was that he started taking these month-long vacations to South Carolina because he had the same latent sense of responsibility. And he still does but at least he knows how to get off to live some too. And that's how he started taking month-long vacations to South Carolina, in the cold months. It's completely irresponsible but he takes the children out of school. That was interesting because I never would have expected that. You never expect other people to have these same sort of... But I think that's one of the things I really need to work through. I think that I came into the therapy with the idea that I was doing it prophylactically, but I don't know how prophylactic that is. It seems to get more imminent all the time. Well, see you next week.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


END TRANSCRIPT
