TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I drove my car today because of the rain, which part of me feels like it's only water. I should be riding my bike, but I put extra money in the meter. I figured that was kind of how the bike was paying for itself, all the parking fees and meters and all that. Not like it takes gas. It's not like the old bike. Just didn't have brakes. So my wife is crazy. My dad and stepmom were in town. I can't even remember all the crazy shit she did, like my dad was joking how he was going to get Ian a DS. I stead of saying, "I really don't think that's appropriate for him," she snapped on him. "No. He can't have a DS." [00:01:18] And then Ian complained to her that everyone was telling him what to do. My stepmom, you know, she's an old, Jewish lady. She tells you what to do.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Well, you would think. Everybody probably is telling him what to do.
CLIENT: Yeah. So she comes out and gets everybody's attention. Ian is upset because, you know, blah, blah, blah; and then she does it again the next day because we were at the pool at the hotel and he's screaming. So we tell him to stop screaming and stop whining. I've told him multiple times to stop whining. I'm sick of the whining. It's like you're old enough that you shouldn't be whining. Once again he goes to his mom. She comes out and she wants me to apologize to him. [00:02:08] I'm like, "I'm not going to apologize." I didn't say I didn't think I did anything wrong or anything, but there's nothing to apologize for. She's like, "Do you want to apologize to your son?" and he's sitting right next to me. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. This isn't so good. 
CLIENT: She's just insane. Lucille can't function without her mom in view. It's like she wants to go on the swings and when she gets on the swings she's having fun and then she realizes she can't see her mom. She starts crying. At least Lucille . . . it's not like she's like more like, "Oh, hey, here's dad." She keeps saying my name more and more as I'm leaving. She's like, "Da-da, da-da, da-da." [00:03:01] 
THERAPIST: Is Ian still seeing a therapist?
CLIENT: You know, I was confused. It's actually a speech therapist, because he has trouble getting words out.
THERAPIST: Okay. And it's not anything to do with executive functions or . . . 
CLIENT: What are executive functions?
THERAPIST: Is there any concern about him and ADD? I don't have reason to think there is, it's just speech therapists sometimes these days work on AD-related stuff. I hadn't heard you mention it, but if there was confusion about a psychotherapist and a speech therapist, it could be that. I mean he's not seeing a shrink?
CLIENT: I don't think so. He may have gone once or twice or I don't know. [00:03:52]
THERAPIST: The reason I ask is that would be someone both you and Jess could talk about some of your . . . 
CLIENT: I don't want to get involved. I really don't have the energy and she's just so f**king stubborn It's like my dad and stepmom, who have gone through bullshit with my brother's wife, are just like, "She's f**king crazy." They really think she's crazy now. We're all tied together and it just kind of sucks that number one, she's going to behave that way. And there was one other incident that I can't remember that really pissed me off. I've got this FHA loan that's funding on Friday so a wire has to go out Friday and I'm not going to be . . . 
THERAPIST: Right, you're talking about the. . . 
CLIENT: The bank wants me to be in a branch and the only other option was to have Jess do it, but she's got plans. She doesn't know what they are but can't do it, and so I've kind of worked out a solution that may not be 100 percent foolproof but might work. I'm going to overnight a check on Thursday which will get there for Friday. It won't clear my account until Monday, so the wire proceeds from my lender should be there. Fingers crossed. New lender. Hopefully nothing gets f**ked up. If it does, I have to stop payment on the check and that's going to f**k everything up. So I'm a little nervous about that. [00:05:51]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But I asked my dad if I could borrow money from Flo. She had originally given us $10,000 and we paid her back. He said Flo doesn't have the money but he's going to try and put together $6,000 for me—with stipulations. 
THERAPIST: Hmm. Do you know what they'll be?
CLIENT: I have to take the divorce training course. He thinks I should be a divorce lawyer, which I don't think I have the whatever it is. I just don't think I could put up with the stress of it right now. The other thing is I have to join a temple that has like a men's club. So I have to start looking at temples with men's clubs. I figure I might as well go to one here because I live here-, but there's only one true temple and it's kind of a, you know, they're just holding on. One that has an active men's club, like a rotary that's social, that you socialize, service stuff, whatever. It's a way to meet people. [00:07:22]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I've got to do that, which I'm not real excited about, but then I can take Ian to services and stuff like that, find myself a nice, Jewish woman to drive me f**king crazy. But I'm nervous because, once again, it's going to stop the bleeding for a short period of time, but just taking the f**king divorce class isn't going to bring divorce cases through the door for me, you know? There's going to be a point that Jess's not going to want to take divorces that she could refer them to me, but that's not anytime soon. I want to try and catch up on my rent with my landlord and that's at least $4,200 plus August I owe. [00:08:45] I don't know when he's going to give me the money. I'm behind on my student loans. I'm wondering if I should pay those up or hold onto the extra cash. I think I may pay a month or two and hold on, so it's kind of a good thing which, at least for the moment, has me a little less stressed out; but the converse of it is I don't know what the future holds to make money over the winter, you know? I don't know what's going on with my tenants. I told them I'd sign them up for a full year, which is probably not something that the buyer is going to want. You know I don't give a shit whether they buy it or it gets foreclosed on. I don't care what happens. I'm more concerned about getting $1,500 a month and they haven't responded back to me, most likely because they still owe me for August. They're probably holding out trying to find someplace, which they have a lot of trouble doing because they're back-rated. They don't have any money to put down. And that's my problem because even if I wanted to find a cheaper place, I am back-rated. I didn't think that this was going to be a permanent situation for me, but I think Jess had it in her mind all along that it was a permanent situation. [00:10:39]
THERAPIST: "This" being your living situation? 
CLIENT: Yeah, me getting kicked out of the house. She's been intolerable with me for a long time. Whether I've been sick or not doesn't matter. She's the victim. I go down to South Carolina on Thursday. It will be nice just to get away. I've got nothing to do on Friday. I need to find something to occupy myself. My brother is going to be at work and the kids aren't coming over until Saturday morning. My mom is flying in Friday night; right in the middle of rush hour she's flying in. Traffic situation sucks. I don't know how much you know about the place, but it's really bad. So I'm going to spend the day in traffic until 7:00 at night and it is just a little over an hour away; an hour and a half. I figured I'd hang out with my mom and the kids in the morning and in the afternoon . . . Are you falling asleep? [00:12:16]
THERAPIST: No. Oh, no no. 
CLIENT: Then go and miss all the pre-draft festivities. Like Friday when I'm doing nothing, I could be out on the lake waiting (inaudible at 00:12:30), but I wanted to see the kids. I haven't seen them in a year. Show them pictures of Lucille and see how they are when they're just around Curtis and not his wife. Just hang out. There's a football game on at three. Maybe I'll watch the first half with those guys and then maybe at half time or later, like 4:00, wait for the draft; and then after the draft just drink all night and then drink all day Sunday. Fly home on Monday. [00:13:16] That's the plan. I just had a closing yesterday, so I've had two closings—one that was supposed to close Thursday that I thought I was going to have to have another lawyer do. It looks like it's not going to close until next week, which I'm happy about. There's a little bit of business out there. I was kind of stressed out Sunday thinking about my day Monday where I have a personal loan and put a loan together, just stressing out—maybe in a good way. I don't know, but just with the business it's something I'm not used to, and it all worked out fine. I had a meeting and I went to the meeting; this personal loan, I put the loan together and closed the loan. I even had time to print out some stuff and I had fantasy football draft last night. 
THERAPIST: You had?
CLIENT: I had fantasy football draft last night. [00:14:27]
THERAPIST: A different one?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm in two leagues this year. One year I was in five, then I was in four, then last year I was in three, now I'm in two this year, which is a little more manageable. Of course, I have to put up money to be in the drafts, so I don't know. Tomorrow I start the full 10mg of Prozac. I don't know at what point actually the dose will have an effect on me, but I haven't had any side effects from that doing the 5mg.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:15:33]
CLIENT: I see the doctor at ten and you at one, then I pick up Lucille from work—not from work, from day care.
THERAPIST: She has the day off of work tomorrow? (chuckles)
CLIENT: Yeah. So I've got to get everything done today. I'll have time to do some stuff tomorrow, but . . . 
THERAPIST: How able are you to work?
CLIENT: That was the concern—that I'd be stressed out by all the work, that I'd get it done. Sunday night I realized that my parents were supposed to leave at nine on Sunday, but because of the hurricane, they were worried they were going to close the airport so they switched flights. It turned out to be they could have flown home at nine. So they left early in the day. I went home and took a nap, a much-needed nap. One of Ian's friends, who goes to the school, was having the first-graders over for a play date at one of the parks, so I went to that. [00:16:47] And then when I got home I realized that I needed to do this title, so I did the title. So it's like I've been able to get stuff done. If I have the opportunity to procrastinate on something, I will. 
THERAPIST: But if you don't you'll actually do it?
CLIENT: Yeah. If there's a deadline or it's got to get done—like today there are things I've got to get done that I know will get done. I have to go up to the office. I've got a nurse's appointment for my B12 shot, so that will force me to go. I'll get that loan from yesterday ready to disburse. One thing I'm wrestling with is whether to drive my car to the airport or not, because that's going to be $100 and change for parking, where I could just as easily take the train and I probably should take the train. It's a five-minute walk to the bus. I could ask Jess to give me a ride, but I don't want to give her an opportunity to say she's done something for me. [00:18:06]
THERAPIST: You could take a cab. I guess it would be a lot cheaper than parking.
CLIENT: Yes. A cab is an option, but the train would be the cheapest. They have a ten-o'clock flight. If I left at 7:30, got up. . . The thing is I've got to get my overnight . . . I don't know . . . it may be better to overnight it. It might be cheaper, but I'm going to try to get it . . . I think I'm going to drive early in the morning here, drop off the FedEx downstairs or ride my bike over and just walk to the train. Actually there's probably a FedEx somewhere at the Square I can drop it off, if not at the airport. [00:19:04] I'll take the FedEx with me to send the letter and documents back. I know you're not used to riding the train, so it seems like an odd concept to you. [00:19:28]
THERAPIST: (chuckles) What makes you say that?
CLIENT: Well, people who live in—not like it is really "the burbs" but, it kind of is "the burbs"—they're thrown off by using the train. They don't want to drive into the city and they don't want to use the train. I just want to make sure I have plenty of time to get there and not rushing myself. It's kind of pre-Labor Day weekend travel. One of the reasons I wanted to fly on Thursday instead of Friday was sort of to avoid all that craziness of trying to leave the Friday of Labor Day weekend. [00:20:23]
THERAPIST: So how much of your life can I not understand?
CLIENT: Suburbanite?
THERAPIST: Suburbanite with . . . I think you told me I probably have an active pilate practice, no financial or marital woes . . . 
CLIENT: Umm, I would think there isn't anything of my life that you don't understand, but the fact that you suggested a cab over the train is something that someone in the suburbs would say as opposed to someone who lives in the city, which would be like "Cameron, why don't you just ride your bike to the airport?" you know?
THERAPIST: (chuckles) [ ] (inaudible at 00:21:11) Take your bike. I said a cab because I didn't understand what your reluctance was to the train because it's way cheaper. I assumed it was because it's more a pain than driving.
CLIENT: No. I really don't have reluctance for the train. The thing with the train is just trying to gauge the time it's going to take. I've never taken the bus Line to . . . 
THERAPIST: It really sounds "I could take the train. I should take the train. It's a lot cheaper." I assumed it was the hassle. [00:21:50]
CLIENT: Actually driving my car is the simplest, you know? I used to take the train to the airport all the time. I mean I'm just going to have one bag with Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday—four days' worth of clothes. It's just trying to figure out the timing of it all. I can probably sleep later if I . . . but I don't know. I'll be able to sleep all day Friday stuck in my brother's house. I have things to do, though. There's some guy on Facebook who is a lawyer and he has a system for lawyers to work four hours a day and make three times as much money. I ordered his free first module, so I'll read that. I'm not really sure what his [ ] (inaudible at 00:22:55) for me what you do, but I want to explore it. I've got nothing better to do. I could use three times the income. I could just use an income, really. Oh yeah, I've got to use part of that; our estimated payment is next month, so I've got to take $900 out. Basically the $6,000 is gone. I originally said I'd borrow $10,000 from Flo and that would give me a little bit of a cushion, some extra money, but oh well. I do have some people who are interested in estate plans, so that's a little bit of money. I have three closings over two months. One of them will be good money because it's selling a condo and then buying a house or a condo. The client is selling. That's $750 and they're buying, which will be maybe like $2,000 or more, depending on how much they spend.
THERAPIST: Great. [00:24:35]
CLIENT: That's October. When I get back from South Carolina I really should use . . . there are lots of little things I need to do. I need to get organized. I don't know. Clean out my office a little bit. I've got stacks of paper, unopened mail—mostly bills. It just never stops, you know? Some extra money. I've got to join the Chamber because that's how I get my health insurance, you know? Seems to be a bit of an upward momentum starting at E&G;, which would be helpful. That hopefully would mean more refi's for Harry, which would mean more closings for me. I know he uses another lawyer so I'm not getting all his business, but at least the behind business I presume he would send to me. It would be nice if the realtor had more business for me. She said she has someone but they're $2,000 apart and neither party is budging. 
THERAPIST: Right. [00:26:58]
CLIENT: I'll pay the two f**king thousand dollars. Not really, because that's what I would make, but you know. Those people suck. I have to find a way to find a woman. I don't know. I keep thinking in the back of my mind that Barbara's going to come around. As much as I know it's not going to happen, I'm still grabbing on to . . . I don't know why. I'm old, fat, ugly, balding, I'm in a messy divorce with two children. I don't think she's doing any better looking for "simple". [00:28:24]
THERAPIST: And hasn't seen the dance floor yet?
CLIENT: I don't think so. She might just think I'm a drunk, too. She doesn't really seem to drink that much which is, I wouldn't say completely incompatible, but I would drink less. I drink because I've got nothing better to do.
THERAPIST: You drink because you're lonely.
CLIENT: Last night at the draft I drank four beers. They were high-alcohol beers. I got a nice buzz. So rode my bike. Literally Barbara and I live a couple of blocks away.
THERAPIST: Oh, really? She lives in the area? [00:29:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. I ride my bike all the time, but we're going to the same exact location, you know? We could car pool. Then she would be stuck talking to me, but I need the exercise. If it's really windy, it's a tough ride. I've got my audit when I get back. I've got to read. I haven't been reconciling, so I've got to undo all these transactions and then reconcile them, put in the transactions and then reconcile. You're supposed to do it every 60 days, but I want to make it look like I'm doing it every 30 days. There are clearly transactions in there which aren't closing-related, which they're probably going to pick up on and say, "What the hell?" You're supposed to use the accounts just for closings. 
THERAPIST: How have you been feeling?
CLIENT: I don't know. I think because I had my parents in this weekend I was occupied. I'm feeling a little better because I have some money coming in. I've been busy, which makes a big difference. When I've got nothing to do I just ruminate. Like yesterday I had a meeting at 9:30 and then worked kind of non-stop until 4:00. Came home and rode my bike to the draft. The draft is on my mind. I've had some good distractions. [00:32:57]
THERAPIST: Distractions from what?
CLIENT: Being depressed. Being lonely. All the problems in my life. 
THERAPIST: [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:16) 
CLIENT: Being broke. Being lonely. Having to deal with a lunatic. I just can't ask for her help anymore for anything, you know? No matter how badly I might need it, I just can't do it. There's just something f**king weird about her. I know what's going to happen on Friday. Her friend is going to cancel the plans because she always does. They just probably said, "Oh, we'll do something this day," whatever. She's completely unconcerned when I'm telling her that this was before I figured out I could just overnight the check on Thursday. I'm basically going to end up having to pay the extra month's interest, which means I'm doing the closing for free; and I'm not going to be able to pay my rent, and this, that and the other thing. And there was no like "Oh, that really sucks for you. I feel really bad. We really had these plans and Ian was looking forward to it. Just not going to be able to do it." She says, "We're going to the beach. We're going to away." I was like, "Away?"- so it's like no matter what I said there was some—she just didn't want to do it. 
THERAPIST: I think she just didn't want to do it.
CLIENT: She has no tact. 
THERAPIST: Plus I think she wants to keep things as separate as possible between the two of you. I mean you do some stuff together for the kids but otherwise, she wants to be as separate as possible. [00:36:18]
CLIENT: Good luck. Enjoy your life with her, you know? I know she's got problems, too. She's in therapy, but I don't think her therapist is going to pick up on her being a raving bitch; maybe she would. I don't know. I don't know if the instances with Ian would come up. It's just the way she does it, you know? I have an announcement everybody. Ian is standing there. It's just bad for him—right in front of the kid. Puts me on the spot to apologize to him. What am I apologizing for? Being a parent? He was screaming at the pool. We told him over and over to stop screaming. When he whines I'm going to tell him to stop whining. He's old enough now that he doesn't need to whine or cry when things don't go his way. He's soft. [00:38:15]
THERAPIST: You mean like he's not tough?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I splashed water in his face and he cried. I don't expect him to be . . . 
THERAPIST: Occasionally I have the thought that it's easier to look at what's the matter with other people . . . 
CLIENT: Than what's wrong with me.
THERAPIST: . . . such as your wife and son. Yeah. 
CLIENT: Well shouldn't it be easier?
THERAPIST: (laughs) Good answer. Do you have an interest in . . . 
CLIENT: . . . what's wrong with me? They're the reason I'm like this, right? (both chuckle)
THERAPIST: Well, that's usually how it works. That it's other people's fault and if you can only focus on their problems long enough, you'll get entirely . . . 
CLIENT: It bugs me that Jess wants zero liability for anything, like she's never done anything wrong; and it's just not true.
THERAPIST: Of course it's not true. [00:39:52]
CLIENT: I'm never going to win that argument. There's no reason to get in that argument. I don't want to argue with her. Yes, there's some interest in what's wrong with me but . . . I don't know. I'm not sure how to go about figuring out what's wrong with me. I'm not sure what you want me to say. Is it my fault that I'm depressed? 
THERAPIST: Well I don't mean to be beginning the same thing again where this is what I want you to be focusing on and talking about.
CLIENT: But I don't know what you want me to say or where I should begin, you know? [00:41:08]
THERAPIST: What is it that you want to be doing? If you're like, "Look, what I want to be doing is going off seeing about Jess and Ian pissing me off," okay. I mean you seem to be focusing on their problems to the exclusion of your own, but that's not an exhortation to look at yourself, really. It's a comment about what you seem to be doing and you can do with it whatever you want; or maybe it's like I said that you can respond with whatever comes to mind which I guess next is okay, Josh, what do you want me to do then; which then shifts things to being about my agenda for you. [00:42:04]
CLIENT: Do you have an agenda? I mean to some degree aren't you supposed to control where things are going or ideas about things to talk about? Don't you have a role?
THERAPIST: I do certainly have a role. What is your idea about what my role is? To control where things are going?
CLIENT: Not control, but sort of moderate.
THERAPIST: Can you tell me what you mean or to what end?
CLIENT: Well, you seem to be suggesting that I want to talk more about other people than myself, so you would have the skill to get me to talk about myself as opposed to other people. If I knew what that was, I'd be a therapist. 
THERAPIST: I think it is an important point actually—the question of "who is responsible for what" here. I think it can be very hard for you to feel responsible for and explore things about your emotional life. I think in other spheres you can feel exceedingly responsible for things and actually weighted down by them; but when we start talking about emotional stuff, you tend to focus away from what your role in it might be or what may be going on with you that contributes to your feeling or interacting the way that you do. It's not my job to make you talk about that.
CLIENT: I'm not saying make me talk about it but at least . . . 
THERAPIST: Point to it?
CLIENT: . . . help facilitate my talking about it. 
THERAPIST: Certainly I'm going to try to help you to talk about it, asking questions about it that point things out, to say things that might put you in touch with things that you're feeling or struggling with, that's true. The desire to talk about it or kind of things that kind of get in the way, that's more on your side. [00:45:58]
CLIENT: But I don't know where to begin. I mean I say I'm depressed. I'm lonely.
THERAPIST: Yes. Absolutely. We have to stop for now, but we'll talk more about this tomorrow.
CLIENT: You sure?
THERAPIST: Yep.
END TRANSCRIPT
