TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


- 115. December 22nd.


THERAPIST: I will go through my usual beginning spiel which is I don't have anything particular that I need to know. I'd like you just to start where you feel like starting. 


PATIENT: You want me to start where I feel like starting, wherever I feel like starting I take it. Well, I suppose that's real direct. I don't really know where I'd like to start either. I wouldn't know where to start. I suppose we need to start about how I ended up here. What prompted me to come in here. I've been living in New York for about, just about a year now. Except for my brother, this, is the first time I've ever lived on my own. John and I don't see that much of each other, so pretty much I'm pretty excited this, is the first time I've been on my own. But the thing that's got me bothered so much...I wasn't hoping to be here this long. I was hoping to move away and start school by now, but it seems like for the last year or so everything I've done has gone in the exact opposite direction from what it was intended to. I'm probably more financially in debt now after working here quite solidly for a year than I was when I moved out here. I know fewer people than when I moved out here. Those that I'd met had moved away from where I lived. Those that I knew in Boise before I came here have all either moved away or I don't know them as well anymore. Seems like almost hourly I'm becoming more alienated from the people that I'm running around with. [02:33]


THERAPIST: So you meant for New York to be your away station or transition point and you...?


PATIENT: Definitely. I cannot stand cities. I hate them. The only reason I'm here was a job. Now even that's turned kind of rotten. I've changed jobs. I'm working a guy that's a terrible redneck. There's nothing he likes better than to sit and tell me how he'd like to murder all the Jews and the Niggers and long haired bastard hippies, etc. etc. I've got to sit and listen to him for 8 hours a day. But the, I don't know. I was hoping to be back in school by now. I'm about $3,000 away from it yet just to break even. I have no idea where I'm going from here. I'm just trying to hold on to the job without murdering him. 


THERAPIST: Sounds like (inaudible) another job. [03:35]


PATIENT: This, is not to inspiring. I haven't seen any way of possibly getting out of here so I decided I better try and make the best of it while I am here. The only way that it seemed, the only possibility that I saw open with maybe finding any help with making it easier to stay in New York was coming down here. So, when John's suggestion I ought to, a couple of months ago when I was feeling awfully depressed, I decided I may as well. 


I was actually going to start this when I first came up here about a year ago, but I had, I don't know whether the usual now, I kind of think so now, but I had an unusual feeling to start therapy sessions with the equivalence of knitting that I was either freaked out to the point I couldn't handle myself or something to that effect, so I managed to avoid it for quite a while. I had told John last whatever it was, November, I guess...it was getting to the point where I was obviously upset about something whether I wanted to admit it or not, so I didn't have anything to lose by coming down here. [04:57]


THERAPIST: Does it still feel like though that's partly...like your coming here is an admission of that or is there something...?


PATIENT: No. I'm kind of looking forward to...it's something interesting and new. It's something that, well actually it kind of came to a point where it was one of the few things where I don't have to lose or gain by somebody else's standards. It's up to me what I want to do with it. So I kind of got to liking it that way it doesn't put much pressure on me. 


THERAPIST: Like there isn't ...whatever you do isn't going to lose you more money or make you feel more alienated by whatever else is going on with you right now.


PATIENT: Right. It was a pretty secure position. Well that kind of sums up how I first came in here, at any rate.


THERAPIST: One thing I was wondering about was whether you saw being stuck here in any way being stuck in New York and the various things that are happening that seem kind of negative, as like having any kind of psychological things; like are there psychological things happening to you that you think have to do with your staying here?


PATIENT: Oh, yes. Definitely. When I first moved up here, I had been living in Boise (inaudible). And I was a big freak. I just...I was nuts. I came up here and I was the flower child idiot that loved everybody and wanted to do anything I could. And since I've gotten up here, I've...it's like anything a person can do in this society is absolutely nil in it's effects. I just got completely bummed at it; depressed and revolted about the entirety of people. There's just nothing I can do for them and they're too damn dumb and ignorant and needy and everything else to let anybody do anything for them and I just...I don't like to feel this way, but anymore I'm just kind of the effect, well screw them because they won't let me help them. I can't anyway, and all it's going to do is get me killed. [07:12]


And it's...I hate to have that pessimistic attitude like that. If I ever get to feeling that there's really no way things can improve, there's really no reason I should be here. I can't quite accept the idea that people are on this earth just to for their own good; at any rate, just for their own good in damnation from the people around them. It gives me a terrible feeling to feel that dead end, not only because it's obvious that I, myself, came to a point where it's kind of a dead end. Everything I'm doing seems to be bumming now, but to think that the idea that just the very purpose of a human being being alive to be dead, that zero is (inaudible) an awful lot. [08:04] 


I don't know just what the effects have been. Like I said, I'm not as optimistic and considerably...I don't have much faith in people like I used to. I don't know whether that's just because of here and I should leave or if my situation should change, I suppose my ideas would also, but I've burned out and mellowed on my extremist ideas when I first came up here. 


**The other thing that has been bothering me is the time that it's been taking. I've been out of school 2 or 3 years now. I guess it's going to be 2 years, and I'd like to get back in and start on a law degree, but I just don't have...I was never a very good student to start with. After being out for 2 years, I have a feeling, well I suppose I could look at it optimistically and say maybe I figured out all my bad habits which was all I had for school, but being out of school for 2 years, I'm sure, won't make it any easier, and it will be 3 years by the time I'm able to get back in I imagine. So that bums me out there. I'd like nothing better than to be able to hurry up and get out of school and get started on a profession. That's my...I suppose that's kind of a...I'd like to have the security of being able to just do something and not have to change, and not have to be running all over doing it and not have to be in a position where I'm (inaudible) everyone that wants to step at me. [10:25].


So I'd like to go ahead and get out of school and get married. (Inaudible). Can't afford school. Can't afford getting out of debt. Can't afford to get married. 


THERAPIST: Sounds kind of depressing just to look at all the things you can't do.


PATIENT: Yeah. What's strange, of course, I've never been able to do them. It's only recently that I've ever considered it a negative situation not to be able to do it. It's only recently where I will ever consider myself to be at a point in life where I would expect myself to be able to do or at least be able to help a lot closer than I am; to be able to do those things. 


THERAPIST: Does that mean that before you were just kind of accept whatever was coming your way as being a closed matter?


PATIENT: No. No, it's just that up until the last year or 2, right along there, I don't know how to say...it's kind of like I was living in such a closed world, I was all on a little trip of my own. What ever was happening, I was aware of other people's lives and what they were doing, but the only things that concerned me were those that affected me directly, and those that affected me directly in a matter of time too. In the last year or 2, I've come to a point where I had to start thinking in a matter of years and I haven't learned to live in a matter of years yet; I haven't the patience for that. It's also come to a point where I have to think in a great deal of effort of time and expense to get something done, and I still haven't learned. I can think in that term, but I can't necessarily function in that term with the idea needed. It's like I've learned to think that way, but it's the most useless piece of information or most useless ability that I have because thinking that way does me no good when I can't function in that manner. [13:00]


THERAPIST: Yeah, it's sort of like before when you were talking about sorting of wanting to get your degree and that kind of thing, I got this feeling like there are these things you've thought about that has these steps to them, but it felt very far where you are now, I felt like there was a big gap between sitting here and your start on those and I didn't....


PATIENT: Well, I just don't have any idea how it will ever happen at this rate. How, because, I've never been good at working and since I've been up here...and especially in then last 4 or 5 months, I've probably had the best work record I've ever had. It's done nothing but put me farther in debt. 


THERAPIST: How is that?


PATIENT: Well, between, I had a hassle in courts back in Idaho that cost me quite a bit of money. My father paid most of it, but it still cost me another $1,000, $1,500, $2,000 in debt to him. Just before the trial, I decided well, I've been up here for so long I need wheels. I bought a motorcycle; lost my license at the trial. So now I've got a motorcycle to pay for and no license until just recently. I got another one, but I'm not sure it's legal. It's just to the point where it seems like I have foreseen that all I would need to do is quite hard; save my money, be scrupulous, and in a year or 2 I'll have enough money to basically eat. I am halfway through my year or 2 and I'm in no better position than I was, so it's kind of to the point where I've tried everything I can think of. I've done nothing but go downhill and for Christ's sake, I don't know where else to go. I'm always scared to try something else because if I go downhill much further, I might not be able to ever get out. [14:58]


THERAPIST: I'm wondering, this sounds like a whacky question, but the way you describe yourself and they way you describe these, I don't know whether they're really plans or whatever that you see in the future, it sounds like, in the way you see yourself there's a very different kind of person from the kind of person who'd sort of methodically go through these steps to get into a profession or some kind of thing.


PATIENT: Very.


THERAPIST: Is there some...do you ever have some feeling like well I'm just not the kind of person who's cut out to do that or something on that line?


PATIENT: Oh yes, well, I'm not so much about the kind of person that can do that, but I definitely wouldn't be the kind of student that just does...he got college, he's been planning on college all his life and he does it. That's how I started in college. I didn't have any idea what I was going to do. I just went to class. It didn't interest me, so I slept out in the parking lot and managed to fail my way through 2 years of college and decided that was ridiculous, so I quit. But, now I'm kind of going from another end. I suppose if I could ever get started I would be more fanatical than the minimal student. Because again, it's not so much that I'm doing it because I'm supposed to, but because I want to. I know where it's headed; I'd have a little more interest in it. [16:18] 


THERAPIST: Yeah, that gives me some more information because I couldn't tell whether it was kind of you felt like, there was one point in my career I felt like I had to take 2 years of very empty steps to get this feeling I wanted which was a master's degree, or I thought I wanted, and I couldn't tell whether it felt like that to you or whether there was really more of a sense of this really was where you wanted to go; you'd go through and get it the way...get what you needed and go on; there was more in it for you than just a bunch of empty kinds of things.


PATIENT: Well, it's...I kind of expect both. I don't doubt that when I get into school, I won't consistently keep up my ego and my inspiration to go on through. I'm sure once I get started I should be able to pattern a way that I can do it. One of the things I did the last time I was in school, I was making good grades first semester both years I was in school and then had a very (inaudible) with a girl I had been going with and I just kind of blew everything. [17:35]


I don't know whether it would have been any better had she not had those situations not happen to her, or if I had been maybe a better student I really wouldn't have let them affect my school work or what, but, I just think that if I could get back in school or if I could go ahead and get started on something that I wanted that I felt had a future to it, I'd take a little more notice of it, definitely. It would have quite a bit more meaning to me. 


Up until the last 4 or 5 months, well for 2 years almost, I was kind of living on the street. Anywhere I could get money or food, I was doing it. In the last...I've never really objected to it, at least. I've learned a lot of things and then a lot of things that I've never gotten to do had I not just completely quit everything else. But in the last 4 or 5 months it's really started to bum me out because I never realized that such a thing was that permanent. I would seem to have that lasting effect to keep you in that situation, because I never really wanted to stay that way no matter what I could learn from it. It's not a way to live, and yet it's awfully hard to try and get out of it. So, I come to the point where I once thought was kind of a good deal, I'm beginning to wonder if even I felt it and I shouldn't have done that. It's a little harsh. It maybe that wouldn't have turned out to have been the state that...


THERAPIST: Is it something about the way of life that's hard to step out or is it more like being caught in circumstances that then make it like more external like circumstances?


PATIENT: It's a little of both. Now that I have an arrest record, I'm sure that won't help getting into law school, especially since it was a felony. Also, although I don't have any records of arrest, I know I have a record back in Idaho and there's things like that are in me that will follow me. Also is the effect in me that I just, I would much rather be able to have more freedom than from...maybe I'm used to having more freedom in what I want to do or what I do do, than I would in a normal situation. I suppose why if I ever do, if/when...maybe I should be a little more optimistic, I do manage to get back in to school and get through with a law degree, it would have to be something to the effect of a law degree or some kind of situation where it would put me in a situation where I'm financially stable and I could go ahead and have that freedom that I enjoy before. If I were just to be mediocre into a normal life, it's too many restrictions of just a blue collar worker, an office clerk somewhere something like that and I don't think I could ever take that for very long. It would have to be a situation where I would be in a position to go ahead and take care of myself entirely. [21:41]


THERAPIST: It sounds like in a way that the kind of, or at least my maybe just a fantasy or an unrealistic picture of what being on the street is, that kind of freedom...there's freedom there, but there's something also very precarious about it, it sounds like.


PATIENT: You have no idea how long it will last. Well, to me there was because what we were doing was for me, part illegal. Dealing dope and pray there were no minors running around and there were just...hell we shoplifted to eat a lot of times. We did live pretty good and we had a hell of a good time. It was something to do every night. In one way or the other we were having a good time. It was awfully precarious and it was obvious by the people that were joining us that it just couldn't last very long. Out of maybe 50 people that were in the *commune that we lived in, it's probably only 3 left. There still living the same mode of life. They're so bummed out that it's really not the same anymore; they just can't do what they used to do. So, I kind of started looking around and decided I'd better get my shit together and try and find that kind of feeling on the other side of the social bounds. It seems that I found it...I keep finding it harder and harder to try and get to that social boundary. It's kind of like a stagnation, but it's not a stagnation with me or with time, you know, things happening; it's a stagnation of what direction things can happen. The scope of where the future can go seems to have no bound considerably from what I thought it had been. [23:58]


THERAPIST: It sounds almost like you're...the image I get is like you're sitting here in New York arguing, or trying not to argue maybe with that man everyday, and without being able to effect it, it's like the things that are up ahead seem to get fewer and fewer.


PATIENT: Yes. Yes. I used to be quite optimistic and convinced the world had to be getting better. It couldn't get...not that it couldn't get worse, but people just couldn't really let it better, excuse me, let it get worse; that it had to be getting better. But after maybe a year of maybe doing everything that I could, I wouldn't say it was a constant conscious effort, but what is was is I was just trying to lead my life and get the best effect I could. After a year or so, I looked and found there was absolutely no change that I could see; I haven't done a thing. 


THERAPIST: In yourself, in other people?


PATIENT: In other people. To myself, I suppose I was even more disappointed to find that I'd become pessimistic about it. I became to think well, I must have been a fool and I didn't want to think that because what I had thought I really liked, I still do. I like to believe it like I did. I was getting to the point where it just didn't make much sense anymore given the evidence that I had. I became awfully depressed; that maybe people were just a random factor; that they really didn't have any likelihood of improving. [25:57]


THERAPIST: That makes me wonder if there...I've heard like one answer why you decided to come here but it also makes me wonder if you don't bring a terrible, another edge of deep kind of skepticism where the pessimism about what you'll be able to do here, not what I can do for you, but just whatever the 2 of us would be able to do.


PATIENT: You mean here at the therapy?


THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.


PATIENT: Gee, I don't think there was any skepticism. I suppose that if anything along that line, I haven't given much thought to that effect, really. 


THERAPIST: That was really an inference on my part from what you said about looking around at the results of your trying to have a positive effect on things.


PATIENT: Well, I still seem to have faith in me, what I can do with myself. I reconfirm that almost constantly by the fact that I still get up every morning, which is something that I wouldn't normally use to would have done. I would have finally just said "fuck it" and stay in bed; there's no use. I even surprise myself sometimes that I even bother to go ahead and go to work, and even bother to keep my mouth shut and not tell my boss where to go and etc. This was kind of (inaudible). [27:39] I said earlier that this was something that was, wasn't pressured to be...the effects weren't to be considered by someone other than me. So, I really wasn't worried about having to do this, having to do that and the skepticism never occurred because if it shouldn't be a loss, if it shouldn't be any gain, why then I haven't lost? 


THERAPIST: One thing that makes it sound like what feels good to me is that you see this in some way as very much your situation. Like, you'll be able to make or break it in some sense. Or you'll be able to define the kinds of things you want to...anything you want to measure in here, you'll be the one who decides to measure it and how to measure it. 


PATIENT: Right. I...that's a good way of saying it because that's the kind of thing that's happened to me quite a few times. I've never been a good student, like I said, but there was always something that I was in to in one way or another. Usually it didn't make sense. When everybody else was managing to get out of high school, I was playing guitar. My folks were really pissed off about it. They never noticed that I was playing the guitar, but I wasn't good at doing this. When I got into college, I got really poor grades. That's because I didn't want, I didn't like it. I didn't go to class. It didn't make any sense to me. Had to achieve by somebody else's standards; let them decide how much I had achieved by their standards. So I was out drag racing cars and playing around. Finally came down to the point where I just said the hell with it and that's kind of when I dropped out and starting living on the street. Even though (inaudible) [29:44] want to be there, whether they wanted to or not didn't matter because I didn't have to pay attention to them. 


Also kind of to the same effect, I noticed that although I had never managed to try something the normally accepted peer groups would commend my efforts in, I always had the faith in myself that if I ever could get back in school, I would be able to succeed. Because usually whatever I tried, I do manage to pull off. I just never had the interest to do anything of that type before. I kind of think that if I do get back in school, I'll be to the same effect grading myself; I'll be deciding for myself how well I'm doing and how well I'm not doing. The grades will be almost secondary to my own grade of myself. [30:51]


THERAPIST: Oh, so like they'll be some sort of set of inner comparatives or something that will, well not only help you see how you're doing or assess how what you're doing, but also, I would imagine keep you going.


PATIENT: Right. It's...I suppose...well I wouldn't know. I've never been in that situation. I've worried a couple of times if I wouldn't, if I should get bad grades, would I be...you know, tendency to rationalize to the effect well they're wrong and I'm right and I know I'm doing good, but I really don't think I can be quite that unrealistic. If I could get back in, I'd have to realize just how much I could do it for me and how much I can do it for the class. 


Oh, a little bit off schedule. Is 10:00 o'clock going to be our regular meeting time?


THERAPIST: We can discuss that. I usually just make the first appointment and then I'll talk about it, so it doesn't need to be if ...


PATIENT: Well, if it's any way you can make it earlier that would be best. 


THERAPIST: Sure. What would be the best time?


PATIENT: How early can it be? 


THERAPIST: Let's see. It would rare for me to come in before 9 (a.m.), but I can do that.


PATIENT: Yeah, 9 (a.m.) would be ideal.


THERAPIST: Yeah, I can do that. 


PATIENT: Okay. Alright, because my redneck boss is of the type that I'm not sure I would ever be able to explain being late because of therapy sessions. To him, that's the same as fluoridation; it's a pinko-plaud. He's beautiful. I mean, if it wasn't so terribly threatening, it would be quite comical. The fact that he can fire me just makes it unenjoyable. 


THERAPIST: Yeah, I think the reason why (inaudible) [33:14] want to make it this time was that on the form it said that you didn't have to go to work until the afternoon, so that's why I said come in early.


PATIENT: Right. Well, they're an hour off; I have to be to work at 11:00 (a.m.). Supposed. 


PATIENT: It's kind of strange. Seems that I've been talking about...there's kind of 2 angles to what's been bothering me. One would be the physical effect of things going wrong with jobs, money, things like that, and the other would be my personal relationships with people. I think that it's personal relationships with people that bothers me the most. I suppose that the jobs, the money and such had more of a physical effect, but somehow or another, I still maintained an optimism there that is just because for the present time, I'm screwed and sooner or later it's bound to get better. But especially since I've moved to New York...well actually, in the last 2 years, people that I've known have just been disappearing and friendships aren't renewed so much. At one point when I first started dealing, of course, I'd met hundreds of people then, but I don't know whether you'd call it friendship. We were all freaks. We were all having a good time. Especially since I've moved to New York, and since I've left, all the people I knew in Boise that I grew up with, I go back and there's only maybe 5 or 6 of them that I still are familiar with. In New York, there's...I haven't even made one friend that I really feel close to. Here on the campus, there are students that are busy with their work. Most of them that I knew fairly well during the summer when they weren't busy were med students and therefore they're that much more busy now. I don't even see them. 


So, the only time I really feel at home with people that I know, that I've known for a while and are happy with is when I go back to Boise maybe once every 4 or 5 months. Now that's usually every 3 months I guess. It's mostly I'm just so God awfully lonely up here, I write 20 or 30 page of letters a week sometimes to about 10 different, 15 people...10 or 15 people. About 4 of them usually write back maybe a month later. [37:00]


THERAPIST: That's not very sustaining.


PATIENT: No, it's not. I get disgusted and quit. Then when I go back to Boise, they all go well how come you haven't written. It's kind of to the effect that I'm beginning to wonder, the friendships that I have with many of these people were only to the effect of what could they get out of them. Now that I'm in New York, I don't mean a date to them; I don't mean a ride to a game. I don't mean...I'm not there to turn them on when they want to and it doesn't mean anything to them anymore. So there's only a few people that I really feel close to anymore, and I rarely see them, not our relationship is still the same, but theirs has changed. Like one of them is in Italy now, another one is in New Mexico. It's really to a point where I feel like if things go on at this rate for another year, I'll be lucky to know one person that I still feel close to. 


THERAPIST: What does that mean for you when you feel close to somebody who can answer a question like that?


PATIENT: Someone, usually it's someone that I've known long enough, that I know well enough, I can feel secure with them; I know what their reactions to situations are going to be. They are similar to mine. There's no conflict on ideas between us. We just enjoy the same things and each others company, and also that we've been together for a long enough time that we, our past relationship, our past history shows that we can get along. There's only about 4 people that I really feel that way about anymore. [38:57]


THERAPIST: Now, the common question I'm getting is that some of these people that you thought were friends, you find there's this sort of element of convenience and arrangements and sort of using each other is what it meant to be with them.


PATIENT: Yes. 


THERAPIST: And the other ones are kind of slipping away and you don't have any way, not that you'd want to displace them, but there's no one, you don't see yourself making any either finding anybody, or making the necessary steps, whatever those would be, to find somebody that would be....


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: I guess the way you phrased it made me wonder. You said something about my relationships with people and it made it sound like you wondered if there was something more than simply meeting someone compatible; that it wasn't just a question of this, is a city where you don't meet people or I don't find the right person, but you felt maybe there was something more to it than that, or not really?


PATIENT: Oh yeah, it takes meeting a million people, I think...it's true that some people I wouldn't get along with, but I'm sure I've met people and I know people here that I could be very good friends with; they could be very good friends with me, except that they are preoccupied with other things. It's like I'm sure if I were to be in school, I would be in a position where I wouldn't have spare time where I would have friends to talk with, to just kill time with and enjoy each other. They are in that situation and I'm not. So I come home from work, I eat a cold dinner that's left over from when they rest of them ate...I live in a *fraternity house...and go to my room and sit around, and that's nothing to do there since I don't have friends here, I write umpteen pages of letters to what used to be my friends in Idaho that don't reply. [40:52]


THERAPIST: So how are you that living in a fraternity house would make me feel, I think, maybe like doubly outside of things because it's so clear the contrast between you and what the other people in the house are doing (inaudible).


PATIENT: No, it's not like that. The fraternity itself is a very strange fraternity. It's Pi Beta Phi and it's full of freaks. So I don't (inaudible) [41:19]. They are in and out at different hours, so they don't notice me being to work so much. I have lived there as long and longer than some of the members. Well, being in contrast you like during the finals, such as that, they're all rocked out and they're in there popping their speed and doing their studying and I'm just wandering around with nothing to do. Now that's about the only time that I'm really without anybody to do anything with. Normally, I can come home and talk to somebody out of the whole house, there's usually somebody around. It's an absolute variable. I mean, I never know. Even when I do talk to someone, it's someone that I can almost always say, well I haven't seen you for a week and a half, and they'll tell me well I've been studying, and I'll say, oh, okay. I'll talk to them for a few minutes or something like that after dinner, then they'll trip on up to do their studies and I'll go down to my room. [42:21]


THERAPIST: That's more like it's very...you know there will be someone, but it's very unpredictable who and you never see whoever it is long enough to really get to know them; to get to a certain level.


PATIENT: Right. It's ...I have many acquaintances, few friends. 


THERAPIST: What's your sense, if any, of sitting here for ex-minutes or 10 minutes talking? Do you have any feelings about it or reactions to doing it?


PATIENT: No. Talking about myself is something that I do (inaudible) [43:58]. Whether it makes sense or not, I don't have any idea. Because I often...I make a habit of going over what's happened to me in the past over and over again until I think I understand it or until I can...and it gets to the point where even when I'm talking about someone else, leave alone what I'm just thinking about to myself, I can do it...I can say a phrase that to me, symbolizes an entire thing that would actually take many, a great deal more explanation than just the phrase that it means; that represents it. I don't know why, but something that's happened to me just...I've almost always have been able to talk about it. [44:49]


THERAPIST: Yeah, it seems like it's not difficult. I mean that what I said, it looks easier, whatever it was, to sound like what...it was just easy for you to sit down and rattle, but it looks like you're very accustomed to, or it's a familiar mode to sit and kind of carry your own ball as it were...


PATIENT: Well, yeah. Rap sessions are my...I enjoy talking. This, is as much fun as I've ever had. I...well where I used to live back in Boise, I'll refer to is as a commune because that's what it looked like if you would have ever walked in to the middle of it where we lived. It wasn't to the effect that there were only 2 people that owned it or rented it. There were I and another guy that crashed there permanently, and there were probably anywhere from 6 to 8 other people just there for the day or 2, few hours or whatever. But, at any rate, the place was always, you had to walk over bodies. I was the one who was always talking; constantly. I was also on my, the little, the super idealistic content, freaked out little love jag, and I got the nickname of preacher. I noticed that a lot of the people, I was just about the oldest one in the group. I was about *20 years old then and most of the kids were anywhere from 14-23. A lot of the kids had the same kinds of experiences that I had, but whereas they had had a situation where they'd broken up with a boyfriend or girlfriend, whichever, and had the same kind of feelings, it happened in the same kind of way, it had happened to me at one point or another in the past, except that when I found the similarity of someone else's situation with me, it would always be to the effect that, well, like I used that example a minute ago, where I'd gone with a girl for 5 years, and then broken up with her in kind of a brutal way, and to someone else, it would happen in almost exactly the same way, only it would take maybe 10 months that they'd been going with someone. It was kind of because of this that it almost got to the point where people...I became kind of a...well my nickname became preacher. If anybody ever became really uptight or they were depressed about something, they'd come rap with me. And we'd also have a good time, get ripped out at the end of it just to celebrate that they weren't depressed anymore. I mean, I really enjoyed that kind of thing. I super liked it because it gave me a sense of being able to do something. The only job that I've ever liked, was when I was working with an *ambulance company. Some how or another I managed to feel quite needed in that situation. Other than that I've worked in factories and that made me sick. I've got a job now where I just sit in the parking lot and go out and pump gas every now and then. It's absolutely meaningless to me. It's the only thing that makes any sense at all is that I get paid and that isn't even dependable. [48:31]


So, I...I'd rather feel that what I am doing has more meaning than what I am doing. Even if it not being my job, that it meets...that what I'm doing besides my job have some meaning. At one point or another, I'd like to be able to do both. That's why I'd like to go into law. I feel that has some meaning to me. Now it's also the kind of thing that's interesting. It's where I can use my wits; I can talk. I can debate. I like to do that kind of thing, but...like right now, my job is an absolute bust. It's nowhere. So I come home and there's no change. I'm still not doing anything. I'm still not accomplishing or producing anything and it's getting to the point where I'm feeling like it's an absolute waste of time and me to be what I am. It wouldn't be so bad....when I wasn't doing anything on the street, although, I didn't think of it quite this way then, I'm sure that...I think I didn't have these kinds of feelings about needing to feel wanted then or needing to feel both wanted and useful then. At the time, I had kind of given it up. When I quit school, I just said well I'll waste some time now and see what happens. And I feel now that I wasn't wasting this time as much then as I am now. [50:05]


THERAPIST: It's like you didn't mean that the way it is now, it just like...wasteland was the word that came to my mind after you said waste, but...


PATIENT: Yes. Very good. You threw that out up on the table and it...even had I been wasting time then, the way that I had considered wasting time then didn't mean as much to me. To say then that I was wasting time didn't bother me much. But to say it now and especially now in the way that I mean it now means so much because now I'm getting to the point where in another 4 years, I want to be able to be where I want to be, and it's like time is of the utmost now. I'm going to have to get my ass in gear if I'm going to be able to do it on schedule. 


THERAPIST: And this feels more like atrophying than wasting...there can be something very active about wasting time, and this just feels like, almost like decay or something.


PATIENT: Right. Exactly. It's like, since, it's like the old proverb, if you're part of the answer, you're part of the problem. It's like...


THERAPIST: I've never heard that before.


PATIENT: I've heard many different phrases of it. I'm not sure that's a good one, but something to that effect. It's like, the more time I waste. Since I'm not accomplishing, I'm losing ground just because I'm not....because I'm not only wasting time, but also because I'm getting out of the...it's affecting me in a negative way. I'm becoming pessimistic in my outlooks. I'm becoming lethargic in my initiatives. [51:51]


THERAPIST: Yes, I think that's the sense...I don't know where I'm getting this that it's just...you strike me as a very active person in a lot of ways; in your head, in your ways of being with people, and that would be the kind of thing that seems to me that I would offer on the face of it, would feel would be a very part of the deadening sense; the lethargy, the...there's some sort of inactivity that's very draining or something of that...


PATIENT: Well, I've always said that about myself...that I was an activist, but I don't know if it was...I only say that more for my own ego. Whether it was true or not, but I suppose it does have quite a bit of truth in it; that if I ever came across a situation that bothered me, the first thing I did was try and figure out what I could do with it. 


THERAPIST: I think I mean it even differently from being doer or an activist; it's just like more of a temperamental thing or something. You seem very active sitting here and it doesn't seem to fit with how you...fit me to see you sitting day by day with this redneck just talking kind of wasting away. It's really what I meant by it. [52:58]


PATIENT: Right. It's like to be able to do that, I'd have to purposely kill off part of what I am, and that's the part that I'm trying to help, and its...the whole situation is so ironic. I'm trying to get the money to help be an activist or to help do whatever it is in me that makes me want to do this, and yet, to get that money I have to keep from being what it is I want to be. That's kind of a vicious circle. I'm not sure I wallowed in it. 


THERAPIST: I'm going to have to quit for the day.


PATIENT: Oh, okay.


END TRANSCRIPT
