TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview seven, interview seven.
CLIENT: But yeah, if we can get started at 2:15, that's okay so I can get over there. It's all right.
I just had some weird kinds of, type feelings recently. The friends of mine that have been here, they left this morning, but I don't know. It's like most of last week, and I've had very kind of cold feelings towards Don like I don't care about being close to him, you know, I'm just too busy. And I don't know if it's like being involved in so much work and kind of stuff that I'm just not taking time.
COUNSELOR: You're not exactly sure why it is, but somehow it (inaudible) feel something strong pull you there like you don't want to be there.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like I just have really - feel very cold toward him, you know, like I don't . . . Not so much today, you know, I feel better today than yesterday, maybe partially because I began to feel guilty.
COUNSELOR: Kind of feel guilty, kind of trying to force yourself to (inaudible at [0:01:32.9]). And it kind of says to me kind of combination of confusion and feeling disturbed about dealing with the wanting to be close to him.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, it's sort of like, you know, sometimes I just don't want to be close. You know, sometimes I just feel cold and he doesn't understand it. And I don't understand why, you know, why I get like that, you know. And like we had a big blow up kind of on Sunday afternoon, and I really felt cruddy. He just really kind of laid into me. 
Well, the night before, we (inaudible) Frank and Don and I had gone out to my brothers house, and we all got a little high drinking wine and stuff and came back. And Don went right to bed, and I thought he was drunk. And we kind of have a thing of not getting drunk when we're not together because often get in fights. 
And I was telling - (laughs) - (inaudible) - that we had a, kind of a . . . that he was kind of drunk, you know. And he wouldn't admit it so that's why I thought he went to bed, you know. And he heard us, he wasn't sleeping, and he got really angry at me for talking to someone else about it.
COUNSELOR: About him, yeah. [0:02:54.7] 
CLIENT: You know. And he wouldn't tell me and he wouldn't talk to me at all Saturday night, you know. He said I'll talk to you about this in the morning, a few things to say to you. So he got up for a while and he wasn't going to say anything to me, he was going to take off and go to Central Park for a while in the afternoon. And he wasn't speaking to me and like ignoring my existence and I was getting really upset.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, because I didn't understand. I didn't know what I'd done, you know. And he said that he'd heard what I said, and I said well, I didn't say anything that I feel that sorry about, you know, like it's not as though I was saying something nasty about you. I was just saying that you were drunk. And . . .
COUNSELOR: It kind of seemed like somewhat kind of innocuous to me, but yet it really had a big effect on him.
CLIENT: Yeah, I knew he was kind of sensitive about it because like when I was in college and we used to drink an awful lot, you know. And occasionally when we've been drunk, you know, we've had arguments and the kind of fights that have been very hurtful to both us, you know. So, you know, we've gotten out of that pattern and every once in a while, you know, we'll get high or something, and I guess, you know, maybe I assumed he was drunk. Maybe he wasn't as drunk as I thought he was. And like I think he's really hurt that I would say he was drunk for one thing. [0:04:15.9] 
But then on Sunday, it didn't - it wasn't just that. I'm not sure even what he said, you know. But like I just began to feel crappy and like as though, you know, the kinds of things he was saying were that I had to be a perfect person, you know, that I'd been saying things to him and I was being hypocritical. I was saying one thing and doing another and that I had all these nice ideas but I wasn't carrying through on what I was saying, and that I was just trying to screw up his mind, you know, and stuff like that. 
And you know, I said, well, I couldn't say very much. I was . . . it really upset me, and I was crying after a while. And it was like, you know, all I could say is like well, I'm trying, you know. I have to try. I can't do anything more than that, I said. [0:05:07.4] 
COUNSELOR: That's kind of the expectation. I'm not exactly sure (inaudible) perfect, or . . .
CLIENT: Well, I don't know. I just kept feeling like the things he was saying, that I had to be a perfect human being, you know, that I couldn't do anything to hurt him. I couldn't do anything that would make him feel uncomfortable or anything like that. And like he's been acting that way, like, anytime I do something that's annoying to him, he just gets really angry. Well, and I thought well hell, you do things that make me angry, and I just don't get upset because well, we can't, you know like, I can't be perfect all the time. I'm not. 
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense like right now as you talk about it, just angry kind of (inaudible) to him (inaudible) that he isn't to you. [0:05:56.2] 
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so. Also one of the things that kept going through my mind is that you're giving like I was or I am, and that is that I used to have an awful lot of higher expectations of him than I do now, unrealistic kinds of things that I used to . . . 
I don't even, I can't, I don't know what it was. I just kept feeling like you're being like I used to be and I sort of felt like there's a change, like I'm getting like you and you're getting like I was, you know. And it was the weirdest thing and I don't know. I don't even remember what he said. But I, and then I was just crying and I was sobbing. It was just horrible. And I began to feel just very - I started thinking well, what am I feeling? I didn't even know what I was feeling. I was just . . . I just didn't know. 
And I thought well, I'm sort of empty feeling and like being reject - like one point, I interpreted what he said, he said maybe I should just leave and we shouldn't see each other again, you know. Which he said wasn't what he said, you know, but I interpreted it that way. And I had - I couldn't even understand exactly what I was feeling like, you know. [0:07:10.1] 
COUNSELOR: Somehow it's kind of like, I'm kind of having a hard time putting my finger on it, but there's some kind of disoriented feeling you've had like what is the relation - where is the relationship at, you know? Is it, is this a very shaky thing, or . . .
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that's what it sort of came to.
COUNSELOR: I can't get it exactly.
CLIENT: See, I guess I felt that . . . 
COUNSELOR: But it's kind of like something had been on your mind (inaudible).
CLIENT: Well, I guess part of it is that I felt my commitment has been building, you know. He's always had a very strong commitment to our relationship, and a couple of times I've pulled it out and broken it up. And I felt like he was doing that, you know, like he was looking for ways of doing that. And then I really didn't believe it except that that's what I heard him saying things like that. And I guess it was, you know, I guess it was being rejected, you know, and feeling like . . . [0:08:07.6] 
COUNSELOR: He was pulling away from you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although - yeah, I guess he wasn't. I don't know. Maybe it's something I was looking for because much of last week and the first part of this week, you know, like I said I felt kind of cold and not that I don't love him, but I've not been very loving in my actions and in my, in the way I am being around him, you know. Like he'll come up and, you know, hug me and want to be close to me, and I'll say now stop it, I have things to do, you know. Don't bother me.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like he comes to you and reaches out to you and you don't feel like reaching back to him. [0:09:00.0] 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Sometimes I just expect him to be there when I want him or need him, you know.
COUNSELOR: And then you feel like we share (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, like when I feel like being affectionate and all. And I'm not very responsive a lot of times when he needs affection, you know, and closeness. And I guess I feel that it's pretty selfish of me, and I do that a lot. It's been more so like in the last week that I've been like this than I have been in a long time.
COUNSELOR: But you kind of asking yourself is kind of like you're saying to yourself, you know, I haven't felt responsive to him, like I haven't wanted to, you know, hug him, hold him, and he wants to hold me and that's something wrong in me, kind of feel guilty about that. I should  - 
CLIENT: Well, I guess  - 
COUNSELOR: - selfish.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess the feelings are guilt and being selfish, you know. And I guess I look at it sort of realistically and saying it's realistic sometimes not to respond to his affections, you know, because he's like that an awful lot. Yet sometimes I just realistically have something that I have to do. But it seems to me that I've been that way an awful lot in the last week to the extent that it's very upsetting to Don, you know. [0:10:25.2] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: That I'm putting him off an awful lot.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're being cold to him; you're not responsive.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's really affecting him.
CLIENT: Yeah, and also  - 
COUNSELOR: Kind of directly affecting you, too.
CLIENT: Yeah, because he gets much edgier and angry quicker about things that, that I may say or do, you know. But he'll be willing to accept more when I'm more responsive, you know, when he wants me to be. 
But like, you know, and my expectation is for him to be the one I, you know, want to be giving, you know, sort of like on my terms. We meet on my terms. Sometimes, I'll meet on your terms.
Then there are times when I think, well, crap, I've done a lot of changing for him, you know, to meet some of his needs. I've done a lot of giving, you know. So maybe I'm not being selfish. Maybe sometimes I just have to kind of stand up for where I am and let myself be. I don't know. [0:11:39.2] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're not exactly sure what's coming. You should just kind of say this is the way I am and accept it (inaudible) me. Is that kind of . . .
CLIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Is it kind of a thing like you're really torn between, you don't know if you should try, you know, like wait, you should try to take in all this. Well, this is the way I am, this is how I'm feeling at this moment on the one hand. Or else kind of is there something wrong with the way I'm feeling. Is it a lack in me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you don't really know how to look at it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's right. It's just that I've been very aware of feeling kind of cold, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And what is, and like you kind of ask yourself what does this coldness mean? What does it mean in terms of me or what does it mean in terms of our relationship? Is it both of those?
CLIENT: Off and on, although I think I have, you know, more faith in our relationship than to consider it, you know, like the way I'm feeling sort of a terminal kind of thing in terms of the relationship. I don't think it's that.
COUNSELOR: Kind of it's just kind of little (inaudible) in your feelings, but not something to judge a whole thing on.
CLIENT: Yeah. Except that - yeah, that's what it is. It's just that I - it still creates discomfort, you know, for both of us. And like I say I don't like it. [0:13:11.5] 
COUNSELOR: But I also sense it's not just you don't like it, but it's like . . . you know, like, you know, it's kind of bad. Not only does it create discomfort and affects him in the way he is towards you, makes him edgier, it makes it hard for you. 
But I also sense like, you know, you don't accept it just as kind of a slump but kind of asking something, what does it say about you? See, we're saying that. I'm not sure if that's still real for you, like does it mean I'm cold or unresponsive.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, I think I, you know, I accept that it does say something about me, you know, as being a cold person, you know. I guess in a lot of ways I am, you know. I always have been. I don't think I'm as cold as I once was, but maybe it's sort of like recurring feelings that haven't been around for a long time because I haven't been as cold and I haven't felt that way, you know, I haven't felt as, you know, don't bother me, you know, kind of in a long time. 
COUNSELOR: And it's kind of disturbing to see it come up again.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's weird because like I'm running around all the time. I've got a lot of things to do, and we don't have a lot of time to spend together and my expectation is that he'll be around when I do have time, free time. And when he's sitting around being pretty bored and makes some plans to do something, and sometimes they come in conflict with times when I am free, you know, and it's sort of like well, now he's reacting to my being cold by . . .
COUNSELOR: Going off.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, and it's sort of reciprocating the same, you know, feeling. [0:15:11.1] 
COUNSELOR: That sounds kind of like a bad kind of bond to be quote, "I'm not sure." I mean, is it real or do you think that's what happening or that's the motivation, his motivation, or do you think that's the way he's thinking about it?
CLIENT: You know, I suspect it's probably more in my mind than it is, you know, it is. It just seems . . .
COUNSELOR: You mean he's just getting bored.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, he's bored, so he's getting something to do. And I guess part of it is that I haven't always let him know exactly when I'm going to be home. So I certainly can't sit around and expect him to wait all day, you know.
But I guess I feel very uncomfortable about on the thing of having cold feelings, you know. And even after - usually after we, you know, like we have an argument or we talk about some rather kind of heavy things, you know, we end up feeling much closer. And I didn't feel that way Sunday, you know. I still felt kind of empty and . . . [0:16:21.9] 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like after the heavy warm didn't come to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I still felt - and I did Monday, you know, felt kind of distant and unable to talk to Don. And there were things that I wanted to say and I, you know, I couldn't sit down and say them or I'm not sure what I had to say because I felt the need to sit down and talk.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, was it kind of like you knew something was missing. You just didn't get that kind of good feeling that comes from working something through.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You kind of imparted in yourself to really want to desire to, like abstractly wanted to feel something. You knew something wasn't right, but you just couldn't do it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I was sort of looking for the need to sit down and talk to complete, you know, what didn't get finished on Sunday.
COUNSELOR: To get that kind of feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Don't feel inside yourself (inaudible at [0:17:19.9]).
CLIENT: Yeah. Like yesterday, you know, I guess I felt a lot better and I got home early and we really spent together and felt very comfortable together, you know, and it was good. We didn't really - I still don't feel as though, like we finished the conversation of Sunday. And it's like I don't know if I just blocked out what we'd said on Sunday, but like I can't remember a lot of it. I don't remember very much at all of what he said except that it really hurt a lot.
COUNSELOR: And I guess what's missing for you, why the conversation doesn't feel complete is because like what's missing is like the feeling of really wanting a hug. . .
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean like . . .
COUNSELOR: . . . capture. And that's what you wanted. [0:18:18.8] 
CLIENT: But we were, what we were, yeah, we were close afterward, you know, after the argument and we began kidding around. We were hugging and stuff, but I didn't feel as though anything had been resolved.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it wasn't like . . . yeah, I didn't come together. It's kind of like there was, like, you were going - it looked like it was complete, but it just didn't feel well inside yourself, a lot of loose ends.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know if it's because what he said was so hurtful that I couldn't, you know, I couldn't just recover from that and feel good.
COUNSELOR: What did he say that was so (inaudible at [0:18:56.5]).
CLIENT: I don't know. I can't even remember what it was. I tried very hard to remember what it was on Monday, you know. And I don't know what it was. I know that it was, that some of the things said were, you know, indicated that I ought to be a more perfect person, you know. But that Don is becoming, you know, that he was becoming a perfectionist, that he had a lot of things that he'd worked out because he'd been through a lot of shit, you know, and he pulled some things together. 
I wasn't moving, you know, I wasn't pulling things together. I guess it was that I wasn't being understanding or reaching out or being loving, and maybe part of it was that I felt like I had. You know, and I don't, maybe it's that I don't move as fast as he does.
COUNSELOR: There's kind of, the feeling there is kind of like in terms of caring, being sensitive, like you feel like you come away, and it's kind of like the feeling is kind of like you're being unrecognized, unappreciated kind of for what you have done and kind of how you have grown.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you may not be as quick as he'd like, but he wasn't seeing it at all. [0:20:16.8] 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, because . . . I guess it was the feeling that he'd become insensitive, you know, where I felt like for a long time I'd been insensitive in a lot of ways. I feel I've grown, you know, in that . . .
COUNSELOR: That he was being, kind of felt he was being insensitive to seeing him not appreciating that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and maybe that was, you know, I don't know if that was central to what, you know, hurts about it, but that came out, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I can sure kind of see that kind of how it hurts because like the person you really care most about doesn't kind of see something that's really central in you and kind of something that's very kind of important to yourself inside, how you have done, and just not seeing that at all.
CLIENT: Yeah. He, you know, he was just throwing things at me as though he wasn't thinking very much about them. And I guess what I'm feeling is that I had is that I used to throw things at him sometimes without thinking about it. You know, I guess in a kind of insensitive way. I mean, he just, he like really laid into me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But he really laid into you, kind of tore you down. He didn't see where you were kind of had been (inaudible at [0:21:46.8]) grown.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like it was just a big put down. I guess it was also hard because last spring about the same time was when I'd broken up with him, and it was not the same circumstances at all, but I guess I felt like there'd been a reversal, you know. At least that was when the feeling came in. He was being like I had been last year, you know. And I guess there was a fear that that same thing might happen, and it's like we've been working very hard not to let that happen this year.
COUNSELOR: Fear that it would happen and that you'd do it or it would just happen, the breaking up would happen?
CLIENT: Yeah, that it would just happen. Not necessarily - I didn't feel as though I would be it.
COUNSELOR: It wasn't kind of any more specific than like who would be it or, just kind of a feeling like, you know, saying kind of springtime is traditionally hard times.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And kind of like it's on your mind and it's on his mind, and don't either of you want that to happen. [0:23:00.4] 
CLIENT: Yeah, and I just, you know, I guess the thought went through me that maybe that's where we were headed just through the kinds of things that he was saying to me on Sunday.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like that was a harbinger kind of calling down, going downhill.
CLIENT: And we hadn't been, you know, like I didn't feel like there was a basis for it, you know.
COUNSELOR: You mean for his criticisms (inaudible at [0:23:26.6]).
CLIENT: Well, our basis for the fear that our relationship would end. You know, I guess there was some basis for what he was saying to me just in terms of the way I'd been reacting during the week. But my feelings about it had been, you know, it's just a phase. I'm just working really hard. Your friends are here and you're here, we don't have time.
COUNSELOR: True, some situational things but it misses a whole lot of you. That's not the essence of me those things that he criticized.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And he was kind of talking like they were you, you know, that was you.
CLIENT: Yeah, like it was all of me, there wasn't anything else.
COUNSELOR: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess I was also feeling that there just isn't, you know, like what the hell are you doing, you know. Like I am . . . I guess I finally said, you know, like you sound like you're trying to make me into perfection and I'm not perfect, you know. And I don't suspect I can be perfect. 
And then he said something about . . . about me. I don't know if it was about the way I acted toward him or just the way I am, but that, you know, I guess I said I can't be perfect. He said maybe you just aren't able to be anything, you know, or able, whatever. It wasn't able to be anything. And I don't know what it was, you know. [0:25:07.3] 
COUNSELOR: But it hurts.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it was just really . . .
COUNSELOR: You just can't, it was kind of like you can't be just by saying.
CLIENT: I guess I was also sort of, you know, like hitting below the belt, things that I knew I'm weak in and that I'm, you know, am working on.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like there are things that he knows are true and you know are true, but it's not, that's not all they are. It's like there are things that you're very sensitive about and you really are making a damned hard attempt to work with. And it's kind of like taking the very area you're sensitive on and just kind of grinding into it, you know, just twisting.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like saying things that you know. You don't have to hear them told to you over and over again.
COUNSELOR: Right. You know them, and he knows you know them, but also that you're sensitive about them. [0:26:02.3] 
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess yesterday I had wanted to sit down, you know, and talk to him about it and I had intentions of doing it when I got home last night. And I just, I get, I don't know but I just forgot about it, you know, and when I thought about it later in the evening it was just that I didn't feel like saying anything anymore, you know. I mean, I guess momentarily it was well, it's not important to say it now except that I still kind of feel a necessity to bring it up again. 
I'm not sure if I'm asking for trouble by doing it. I guess I more feel like it's saying to each other, you know, that the very thing about we don't have to hit below the belt if we're angry about something. Because I felt like he just lost the issue that he was angry about, you know. And he didn't, you know, he had nothing to say about the fact that he might have been drunk, you know, and it hurt to hear me saying to someone that he might have been drunk, you know. [0:27:16.4] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like where are his faults or he couldn't own up to the fact that there might have been some something in that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It was all then dumped on you.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, it was . . .
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you had something about him not a terribly hurting thing, certainly not below the belt, but like in return for that you got hit below the belt.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you got it ground into you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've been trying to be very conscious of the kinds of things we argue about, and I guess this is another thing that was hurtful is that he says and does a lot of things that are annoying. And I just ignore them because he tells me I say that to him all the time, you know, you don't have to keep repeating, so I've been trying not to do that. 
COUNSELOR: Trying not to . . . [0:28:16.7] 
CLIENT: Repeat the . . .
COUNSELOR: Get out of hand (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, and yet I guess I feel him hitting me a lot with things that I do.
COUNSELOR: Is the feeling kind of like, you know, (inaudible) kind of pounding at you (inaudible at [0:28:39.9]). Like it hurts, you know that. 
CLIENT: I don't think I've looked at it like what does it all mean.
COUNSELOR: It's just kind of like the main thing in it for you is kind of like (inaudible) feeling of being hurt.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've looked at it more in terms of wanting to work it out so that we don't do that kind of thing, you know. Like, you know, like he tells me every once in a while that I . . . 
The other day, last week he, we were going out to play Frisbee or something like that, so he put on a good pair of slacks and good pair of shoes. I said, what are you putting on those clothes for? We're going outside. And he got very, very angry, you know, like I was henpecking him or something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, being a nag or . . . [0:29:29.8] 
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, like I was really nagging. And I didn't think I'd said it that way. I just said well, what are you putting those clothes on for? I didn't say don't put those clothes on or change your clothes, I just asked, you know, sort of it was where are you going? Aren't you going out to play Frisbee with us or ball or whatever we were doing? And he got very upset with that, you know, so I was henpecking him, you know. And it was like I'll wear what I want to wear and don't bother me about it. 
And another incident kind of came up, you know, I don't know. I don't know what it was, something else, and his reaction was the same. And I guess I've begun to feel really guilty about saying anything to him. I sure as hell don't want to be henpecking anybody, you know. That's a vile thing to be.
COUNSELOR: Kind of to see yourself as a nag is pretty repugnant and he perceives you that way. [0:30:34.6] 
CLIENT: Yeah, he was saying I'm doing that kind of thing, you know, and I suspect there was a grain of truth in it, you know, that maybe I do that once a while, you know. But I also look at some of the thing I'm saying is just questions about what the hell is going on, you know. And I guess that's why I've shut up on a lot of ways about some things, you know, and maybe I begin to resent his hitting me about things. I don't know. I feel like I'm talking (inaudible at [0:31:17.6]).
COUNSELOR: You mean what is kind of . . . you mean like you say things but it's not leading to anything, is that what you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I'm just feeling like I'm rehashing a bunch of stuff and like I don't . . .
COUNSELOR: I guess you're right. I guess what I hear kind of common to all that is really just kind of a real general feeling of . . . it's not just dissatisfaction. It's kind of a combination of hurt and dissatisfaction, but still not kind of wanting it to be different but kind of not feeling clear as to - of knowing how to make it different where it will be different. [0:32:13.4] 
CLIENT: Well, sort of that, sort of that I'm feeling, you know, more of a need to hash it out with Don, you know, not treat it talking about some of these things here is helping me focus on how to deal with it with him.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's kind of, I don't know, maybe kind of what comes from it's clear that, you know, it's something you do have to work on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And kind of what the things are that are (inaudible) what was really hurtful about Sunday is that you weren't being seen as kind of the efforts you were making.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was also thinking that one of the things that happens a lot is that I keep asking him things that come across to him as I'm asking the same kind of questions over and over again. 
And like, for example, he's getting this job and, you know, we're going to rent this farm house next fall, and I guess I'm a little worried. He's had a lot of difficulty being responsible when he's got money, you know, like spending it very extravagantly, and so. And I, I guess I'm counting on the fact that he's going to have some income and going to have to be able to support us, you know, and at least until I find a job. And . . . [0:33:56.2] 
COUNSELOR: Where's this (inaudible).
CLIENT: No, in Milwaukee. And I keep, I guess I keep asking him well, you know, are you going to have money saved in September for renting the place and, you know, that kind of thing, which is just an example of I guess I ask him questions over again. 
And I don't know if it's I don't hear what he says the first time, and I don't think it is. I guess what I said to him or what I felt it was is that, you know, he says one thing to me and then I hear talking about it at another point with someone else and I hear something else being said or it gets fogged up exactly what we'd decided. [0:34:42.7] 
COUNSELOR: Well, what does he tell you? Say in specific example.
CLIENT: I don't remember what he'd said, but what he said the other night we were talking is you know, yeah, don't worry, you know, like I was bugging him, you know. And it was don't worry about it, I'll be all right. I know I used to do that; I'm not going to do that again, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I guess the (inaudible) exactly saying it, you know, maybe it's kind of like you are worried about it.
CLIENT: You know, and I said that.
COUNSELOR: You're kind of asking him over and over again is trying to ease that worry inside yourself . . .
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: . . . get some kind of assurance that it isn't going to be that way, that it's going to be all right and that he's going to do it, you know. And kind of like hearing him say those words, I'll have money saved or you know, whatever, it's kind of like eases you, but it's kind of not the thing, the real thing, like it's not the money in the bank so to say. But it's at least some kind of a substitute for it, but it's an imperfect one so you need it over and over again because it is a worry for you. [0:35:56.9] 
CLIENT: Yeah. Another thing that came out, you know, Sunday was I don't know what Don said something about my not trusting him, and I guess like I felt like I don't trust him a lot or the trust I had had in him had been broken down a lot of times. And I guess what I became aware of was that I really don't have a lot of trust in him in some ways.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It kind of sounds like that's certainly what we were just talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah, it goes along, yeah, with that kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: You worry about (inaudible at [0:36:37.6]).
CLIENT: I guess there's doubt about it, and what I'd said to him was that, well, you know, I guess I don't trust you in some ways, you know, about some things. You know, when he says he's quit drinking completely, you know, and he stopped smoking grass and stuff like that, and he says that, and then he goes and, well, we all got high, you know, on Saturday. 
And it's like I don't believe he's quit doing those things for good, you know, even though he says it. And then he says well, I haven't really quit for good. It's just I'm not doing it like I used to do it. And so he raises questions about, you know, I take him at his word what he says, and then it gets changed around and reinterpreted on his own grounds, you know. [0:37:32.9] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But it's kind of, I guess the more general feeling kind of is that you do have doubts about him or facets of him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And they are still doubts despite what he says, and they're still there and doubtful inside yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And kind of when he says that you don't trust him it's like he's right in some ways.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I admit that. I guess one thing I've learned about Don is that he does say something and then doesn't always follow it to the word, you know. He does something maybe a little different from that. And I used to always take him exactly at what he said and be very, you know, like well, you're not doing what you said you were going to do, you know. And so that the mistrust has in some ways built up because he does stuff like that. 
And I guess I thought that I had kind of accepted that and attempted not always to take it exactly as he said it but wait and see what happens, you know, and try and accept parts of what he said. And it occurs to me maybe that's why I question him all the time about what's going on, you know, what he's exactly doing. 
He'll say he's, he'll say, he'll come down to visit. He says, I got to - we'll make some plans and all of a sudden he said well, I've got to go to dinner with these people out of the blue. And I'll say well, wait a minute, I thought we were going to do something, you know. And then he won't go and visit these people that he said he was going to do, you know. He won't call them. He'll tell people he's going to call and he won't call them, you know. Contradicts himself a lot of times, you know. Not necessarily very serious things, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [0:39:34.5] 
CLIENT: But things that I don't do, you know, like if I want to call somebody when I'm going to visit someplace, I'm going to do it if it's at all, if it's in a possible realm to do that. And I suspect that's where I, you know, I don't trust. I'm not sure if that's distrust as much as it is reasonable questioning because he does that a lot, you know. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of, are you asking yourself like is it distrust or is it right? I mean, is it justified? Is that what you're asking yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like am I right to be distrustful or, like, is this something kind of that's legitimate or is it kind of a hang up in me. [0:40:27.3] 
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it is sometimes legitimate. Sometimes it leads me to think that it's distrust and I'm separating the two, you know. And then I guess when Don says, you know, I don't trust him, I wonder if he's right that I don't. And I'm not sure if I'm justified in the questioning that I maybe do do.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because it kind of like (inaudible at [0:40:54.3]) legitimate. Maybe I just do it too much and it's kind of bad that I do.
CLIENT: Or that I have  - 
COUNSELOR: It says something bad about me.
CLIENT: Yeah, or that I have to reorient myself accepting things he says not as law or, you know, final things, but, you know, accepting them sort of figuratively in a way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I guess the kind of thing there would be to take him figuratively but to be able to put a period on it and not to keep worrying about it like you do.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Just having maybe to do that it's like you need to (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, like, out of the blue last week, he decided he was going up to the North Side to spend the evening with some friends tonight, you know, which he just sort of threw up. First, you know, he didn't say I'm thinking of doing this, just all of a sudden he's doing it. I said, oh. And I know what that would mean was that, you know, he'd go up and really get stoned and probably have a good time, you know. That's okay except that when he'd come down it was, you know, that he'd swore off smoking and all that. And then he said this. 
So the question came I thought you weren't going to do that, you know? And then he changes what he'd said. Now it turns he's not going up there at all, and I don't know what happened to the whole plan. You know, I don't even know what happened to the plan. And it was a perfectly acceptable thing for him to do because I'm gone on Wednesday evenings, you know. And like I don't even know what happened to it. It just sort of disappeared. [0:42:38.4] 
COUNSELOR: Kind of was the feeling like it's your standing over him kind of made him adjust his life or something?
CLIENT: I don't know. Like I guess . . . I don't know. Sometimes I get - maybe one of the reasons I've been cold is I, you know, I begin to question what the hell do I believe and what don't I believe? And not, like I do believe that he loves me. I don't have any questions about that, and a lot of things I don't have questions about. It's these, you know, not necessarily very seriously important things that, you know, I don't know when to believe what he's saying and when not to believe what he's saying.
And then I guess I get over concerned about it, you know, and I sort of begin to become like a mother, you know. Like, well, what are you doing, where are you going, and that kind of crap, which is certainly not the kind of person I want to be or think that I am. [0:43:36.4] 
COUNSELOR: Kind of forces yourself into a just a position that feels kind of distasteful to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, am I forced into it?
COUNSELOR: Or you put yourself into it. That's the big question for you in a sense.
CLIENT: I'm not sure if I - do I put myself into that position? You know, or does he want me to be in that position, you know, and put me in it and I accept it, you know?
COUNSELOR: Does he want you to do that? It sounds like he doesn't like it when you say what are you wearing those clothes for.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I don't know. Sometimes I feel like he sets himself up for that, you know. Sometimes I feel like he sets himself up for me to play his mother sometimes, you know. And then I find myself falling right into it.
COUNSELOR: But does he want you to play his mother? I mean, when you say that he sets himself for it, sometimes he acts like a kid, okay. But that doesn't necessarily mean that he wants you to be his mother. Do you see what I mean? Like he can put on his Sunday best to go play Frisbee, but that doesn't mean he wants you to be the mother. Do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, except that I, in other words, that I just take it on, do that, put myself into that.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's like he may say  - 
CLIENT: Maybe I do, except that it sounds like a stupid thing to put on good shoes and good pants to go play Frisbee. You know, I don't know. Maybe I . . . [0:44:58.5] 
COUNSELOR: It does, but I guess kind of like, you know, it does sound like a stupid thing and, you know, maybe in that sense, you know, he's doing stupid things, but the thing about it is that, you know, you're kind of taking it on yourself, it irritates you, and you have to say it's a stupid thing. And kind of that's where the problems begin.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I . . . I guess I'd like to pursue that. That kind of is a weird thing about whether I'm put into that position, he does it or what, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's kind of like, you know, I guess what you were suggesting it kind of like, he kind of puts me in the position or wants me to be his mother. [0:45:56.7] 
CLIENT: Sometimes I don't really feel that. It's not that example, you know.
COUNSELOR: It's not just as if he was suggesting to you well, maybe, you know. I don't know without suggesting to you well, maybe he indeed does childish things but that doesn't necessarily mean he wants you to be his mother.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: But when you see it, you take on that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I respond in that way.
COUNSELOR: You respond as the, what you call the head (inaudible at [0:46:24.5]), the motherly nag or, you know, whatever. That's kind of the way, that's the way you see that stuff. That's what it brings out in you. It gets irritating.
CLIENT: I guess what I think of is, well, not to respond to those situations. And I don't know. I begin to feel myself being pushed more where I can't respond to things that are annoying to me. And I don't want to refer to just those things, and I can't think of . . .
COUNSELOR: Okay, let me just, let's just take that little example with the Frisbee, okay? Like the way you said it, like, it struck me, like, what you said like you said, you weren't saying oh, you idiot. You're putting on your, you said well, what did you - and your tone of voice was kind of like well, what are you doing that for?
CLIENT: Yeah, what are you wearing those clothes for? [0:47:14.0] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that's not exactly a straight way of saying it, you know. It has an implied, you know, what are you doing that for you idiot? It has, do you understand it has the idiot implied?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, it would be different than saying gee, it's, you know, it's likely you'll fall down. You'll get those clothes muddy. Do you really want to do that? I mean, do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Which is a different way of saying the same thing, it's kind of a more neutral way of suggesting without the nag quality.
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Do you see? So it's kind of like you are, at least in that case.
CLIENT: And nagging.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Or showing your irritation, which is what nagging is, consists of. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like asking someone to do something but in an irritated way. [0:48:06.4] 
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I do that. I have a big thing about, you know, like I hate doing kitchen work a lot, you know, like I hate doing dishes all the time, I hate doing laundry all the time, cleaning up a room all the time, you know, that kind of crap. And Don knows that. And like we try to work out a thing that we share those kind of jobs because I can't stand to do that kind of stuff all the time. And like I guess one of the feelings I have is last one up makes the bed, you know. And so okay, he gets up and he doesn't make the bed, and I come home and I'll make it. The next day, same thing happened. I said, I thought you were going to make the bed? You were the last one up, you know. And sometimes I say it in a neutral way because I'm conscious that I don't want to be nagging, you know. And other times I say, say it in a, probably the same kind of way I said about the clothing thing, you know. [0:49:09.3] 
COUNSELOR: Kind of showing your irritation more he'll know that (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I guess I get really irritated. Like, this morning, I was cleaning, you know, and I said could you help me just by doing that rug thing, you know? And he said, yeah. So an hour later, and we wouldn't have been doing anything that would keep anybody from doing it, and he hadn't done it. I said, I thought you were going to help me do that? He didn't say anything, and I didn't pursue it except that I was really annoyed, you know. 
And that kind of thing comes up and I feel like, you know, I've tried not to be nagging about it, tried to be because I don't like to do it any more than he does. And I guess the thing is, I don't know, just to be conscious of not using the tone of voice that implies you idiot, you know. 0:50:01.4] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like to not let it affect you. Well, it's not just using tone of voice, it's not to - your tone of voice comes from that it affects you, really rubs you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that's kind of, you know, I guess it would be just kind of easier on yourself if you could just be more . . .
CLIENT: Or do it myself.
COUNSELOR: Or do it yourself, but I guess kind of the feeling is you can't, you know, that's you, like, you know. 
CLIENT: I get really stubborn and say I'm just not going to do it all the time, you know.
COUNSELOR: You know, what I'm saying that it's just kind of like kind of patience, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, which I'm not sure I have though sometimes, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's like, it's the same thing like  - 
COUNSELOR: But I guess the kind of feeling is that it just does really irritate you when he doesn't do those things.
CLIENT: Yeah, it does.
COUNSELOR: And you can't help but show it. 
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes yeah, yeah. Well, I don't know if it's always unjustified to show it either, you know. I mean sometimes it, you know, it is. [0:51:06.3] 
I guess I sort of feel like, you know, stopping where we are.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well let's (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, now, the 1:00 time on Mondays  - 
CLIENT: Two o'clock on Mondays.
COUNSELOR: Is it 2:00?
CLIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
