TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I just got this but I'm still at the freelancing making about $4 an hour—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —which does not go far.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I have an interview tomorrow in D.C. for that job in D.C.. (chuckling) But for this to happen, I would have to move to D.C. which would be depressive. So I have enough budgeted to come next week. But I'm really—I'm really bummed. It's just like you always hope that it'll be—especially have a reason, like you come to some point where—I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Not just like, "Oh, I ran out of money." 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But—
THERAPIST: And your—or your folks were helping out for a while but that's—
CLIENT: No, I'm lying about not seeing you.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I'm not supposed to be seeing you. 
THERAPIST: Oh, OK. [00:01:01] (pause) 
CLIENT: Yea and it looks like the only way I'll have a decent amount of money is if I get this job which would just land me in D.C.. And I decided that I need to live by myself so I'm going to be paying a lot for an apartment if I'm right there. I found $1000 studios.
THERAPIST: Wow. I would think that's relatively good. 
CLIENT: Yea it's really—it's really good. I mean, it's more than I've paid for an apartment. But I've never paid more than $800 a month for an apartment. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But good for D.C.. And even for here.
THERAPIST: Yea. Even for here.
CLIENT: That's the one benefit. I mean D.C. has, even if it's so expensive. But at least you can be off the subway farther but somewhere where there's that, I guess. I don't know. [00:02:03] So God, yea. 
THERAPIST: Well, very nice. I'm really sorry to hear that. 
CLIENT: Yea, me too. (pause) 
THERAPIST: And at times in years past, I've had policies of sliding my fee and stuff. But honestly I've just sort of stopped doing that the last couple of years because my fee is really pretty low relative to a lot of people. I know it may not seem that way but it is. So I've like sworn myself up, down, and sideways that I just can't anymore.
CLIENT: Yea. [00:02:59] (pause) 
THERAPIST: And the job, definitely you're moving.
CLIENT: Yea. There's no way I can do it from here.
THERAPIST: (crosstalk) (inaudible at 00:03:13) And then does the job involve health insurance?
CLIENT: Yes. But not—I mean, if it's like the health insurance last time, it wasn't very good health insurance. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But it was health insurance.
THERAPIST: Right. I mean, it probably wouldn't pay for Skype anyway. Most don't. But—well, some do.
CLIENT: Well, if I get the job and can ask about Skype.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) [00:03:55] Well, I'll try to see if I can think of any other alternatives that other people are making use of. (inaudible at 00:04:10) think that I may or may not—like anyway, this is just related to the bill I just sent you that I made an error and not include the recording?
CLIENT: Yea. I don't think you did.
THERAPIST: Oh, OK.
CLIENT: But I thought maybe there was something from the past or I don't know. 
THERAPIST: No, no. So I mean that's totally a separate issue that's just coming up in my head as I'm thinking of billing and stuff. So why don't you hand me your check and I will look over everything and send you another bill. 
CLIENT: OK. And maybe factor in this week and next week.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And I can write you one check for all of it.
THERAPIST: Yea. Let's do that.
CLIENT: OK. (pause) [00:05:04] 
THERAPIST: Well, I'm really sorry to hear that. 
CLIENT: Yea. I'm bummed. I kind of—I haven't really been thinking about my finances because I was stressing out. But I sort of had to just save.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: How much money do I have? How much money can I expect to make? And it was pretty, pretty dire. So yea, I'm really bummed because yea, I mean, I sort of—I don't know what I expected would happen to—I don't really know how these things work. But I hadn't thought it would just be sort of suddenly like—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —two more weeks.
THERAPIST: Hopefully not this way.
CLIENT: Yea, hopefully not this way. [00:06:00] I don't know. You just sort of imagine having more time to prepare and—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —I don't know. 
THERAPIST: If you get the job in D.C., how soon would you move?
CLIENT: Well, I'll be talking about that on Thursday. I mean, I would be asking for the beginning of January just to give my roommates time to find someone else.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And to give me time to find a place.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: But I wouldn't really have any money between now and then which is sort of stressful.
THERAPIST: Right. All right, yea. I mean, one thing we should do is find a way to take more than just one more week to wrap things up. So let's assume we'll have at least a couple more weeks one way or another. [00:07:06] I won't charge you something you can't afford. But we should at least have time to say a more reasonable goodbye, I think, than this week and next week would allow. 
CLIENT: That would be nice.
THERAPIST: So and even if I don't feel comfortable with like sliding in an ongoing way, I'm happy to do it to be able to arrange that. So let's plan on at least a couple of weeks after next week and I'll sort of—(pause) Yea, we'll see what happens with the job and when you'll be starting and we'll take that as a more provisional thing and we'll figure out what else we can do. 
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: Does that seem reasonable?
CLIENT: Yea, I'll let you know about what he says about the job this (inaudible at 00:08:01) more of that.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But thanks. It's nice, yea, because it seemed a little abrupt.
THERAPIST: Too abrupt.
CLIENT: Really abrupt.
THERAPIST: Yea, it took a few minutes for that to sort of settle in?
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: Because it wasn't something else [you were thinking of] (ph) but—
CLIENT: Yea. No, I wasn't thinking of before this last week—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —when I really like finally just looked at my finances and—
THERAPIST: Yep. 
CLIENT: —shit. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: So yea. Well, it's good to think because it was like, "Oh God." Like, "What to say?" Two sessions to like wrap everything up.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Oh geez.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: All right, but yea. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Well, what else is on your—what related to it on your mind? What have you been thinking about it?
CLIENT: Oh man. [00:09:02] Everything has been in just so much turmoil in the last week. I guess I've really been hoping that D.C. is going to happen. But that's also such a big change.
THERAPIST: I assume this is the job you had mentioned last week, I think? Yea.
CLIENT: Yea. And in a lot of ways, it's not ideal. I would be working for my old boss again. And he's definitely a good person. And I like him on the level that he's like a good person and he works hard and all of that. But it's not like a great fit, culture-wise. And my old company is now owned by a new one and it's all integrated. So it would be like working for a new company in a lot of ways and there would be new people, a new office. [00:10:02] So it wouldn't feel like just going back to exactly what I left. But in some ways it would. And I guess I was sort of relying on D.C. as this sort of answer to all the problems that I've been having here. But I'm scared. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Are you suggesting it might not be the answer to all of them?
CLIENT: (chuckling) Maybe not. (chuckling) I mean, I do have certain things here that are comforting like being able to be with Jeff all the time and someone to see every week. But I've been relying on him for a couple of years. [00:10:56] And sort of going to back to D.C., I would lose that. Just to be sort of immersed in this really strange world again and having to be on the phone with people all time. And you know when your adrenaline is when people aren't nice to you. And there are definitely ways once it comes sort of like threatening and like this thing that will take over my life again. But on the other hand, when you're getting paid $4 an hour, you don't really pick and choose.—(chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —what you don't want to do. 
THERAPIST: Would the money be reasonable, likely for the new job?
CLIENT: Well, last time I got paid $30,000 a year. And I had a hard time making it on that. I would run out of money before the end of every month. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: And I have to eat a meal for three days. (chuckling) [00:12:00] Like my end of the month ritual but better than $4 an hour. 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I need health insurance which I don't have right now.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: It's going to be nice to have health insurance. I'm like—I think just the uncertainty of my situation is really getting down. I've been sick nonstop since I got back here. I was sick last week when I came in. And I got a new disease the next day which just like—and I slept for four days—
THERAPIST: [Well, that's too bad.] (ph) (crosstalk) 
CLIENT: —because I was so sick. And—
THERAPIST: That's horrible. Yea, I know you were in saying last week that you'd been sick since you'd been back which you still have been. Yea, that's terrible.
CLIENT: Yea. Yea, I think it's just my financial situation and everything is stressing me out so much. And I've just been so depressed because I feel awful (ph). [00:12:59] And it really cuts down on your self-worth not making enough money to get by. (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Absolutely, absolutely. 
CLIENT: It's bad. 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And you wouldn't like being paid at such a low rate. Really gets your self-worth down because I've been having a hard time making myself do the work.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Because it's like so—I mean, last time around I actually liked the project. But this time I don't even like the project.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And just knowing that I'm spending an hour doing something I don't like for $4.
THERAPIST: Cup a coffee, yea.
CLIENT: Yea, it really gets me down. And then I feel bad because I haven't worked as much as I was supposed to work. And even like this little money that I'm getting—
THERAPIST: Yea, yea. 
CLIENT: —I haven't got as much as I was supposed to.
THERAPIST: No, this doesn't sound sustainable.
CLIENT: No. No. And the depression has been pretty extreme. [00:14:00] 
THERAPIST: How so? I mean, like is it how well your mood has been in terms of like how bad you've been feeling about yourself? Like this ideality, other things?
CLIENT: I mean, it's just—it's the sort of depression that feels totally physical. It's in the body which makes it a lot harder to eradicate. Because when there's depression that feels like it's located in the mind, it seems like you should get at it by thinking and coming to conclusions. There's some hope that that will do something. But when it's just like in the whole body—
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —and the waterlogged feeling—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —it's really hard to get that out. [00:15:00] (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And the only thing that seems to help is a night's sleep and a bunch of stimulants in the morning like coffee and Dexedrine. And then at some point I crash. And then sometimes I try to get off of all of the stuff to see if that helps. But I don't know. It's still there. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: So what are the other feelings in your body? There's a waterlogged feeling of being sick.
CLIENT: Yea. And then there's the rare feeling that I can accomplish some stuff. But that's not even like a good feeling. It's just sort of feeling vaguely capable in a way that you're supposed to feel every day. 
THERAPIST: I see. It's more like a patch of quasi-normal state—
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: —than it is something really actually more positive. [00:15:59] 
CLIENT: Yea. And it sort of worries me in terms of going and getting a full-time, stressful job when I'm in a state this bad. But—
THERAPIST: It's always a tough call because on the other hand, then you'd be like making more money and—
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: —you'd have more security and doing work you might feel better about.
CLIENT: Yea. Yea I mean, I—
THERAPIST: Yea. (crosstalk) I'm not saying it's like everything is great. It's just I'd imagine it can be good.
CLIENT: Yea. Yea, I mean, I definitely wouldn't not take the job on this basis.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Because I know that a lot of what I'm feeling does have to do with just not being able to support myself. And that's something that I feel extremely guilty about. And I think having that lifted, I think really would make a big difference with the depression. But I just—I feel nervous because I was pretty depressed when I left and did financial journalism. [00:17:07] And I remember very specifically of having a very hard time getting myself out of bed to go to work and just feeling sort of horror at these full, full days stretching out for as far as the eye could see. And it's sort of funny because I have bits of that here and there in the novel and written at a time when I didn't think I would be going back to that. And it's like, "Oh, I can see that and write about it and put it in fiction and still that's to become my reality again." It was sort of nice writing about it from a place of thinking it wasn't my life anymore. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Well, yea. [00:18:12] Yea, it sounds like you're dreading it that it could be like it was. 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea because it just takes over all of your mind space. You don't have time to think your own thoughts really. Or if you do, you feel guilty about it. (pause) Yea and I mean, I keep feeling very guilty about ruining a situation in which I [had a tough time] (ph) for my own thoughts. Unfortunately, my own thoughts went off in all sorts of crazy directions and didn't give themselves over to work. (pause) [00:19:06] 
THERAPIST: Well, I think it was a similar problem, wasn't it? Where it was unclear—I mean, I guess what I recall is you're struggling a lot with having thoughts of doing work that really felt like your own. And for you, now in a way, you could say whatever you were writing was much closer to your own sort of interests and thoughts than I imagine financial reporting would be. But I think at least some of what you're very anxious and struggling with was sort of in a similar theme? [00:20:05] Did it seem that way to you?
CLIENT: Yea. Yea and I mean the benefit of financial reporting is that it doesn't even pretend to be something that (inaudible at 00:20:16) to me. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's in a different compartment of my mind, I guess. Whereas this academic writing kind of pretends to be your original thesis that is like what you believe is the truth of the matter. But then it's hard to say what you think is the truth of the matter when you're supposed to make these specific academic arguments on them. So with financial reporting, I don't try to put in everything in the way that I did (chuckling) because you're not supposed to—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —at all. 
THERAPIST: Right. [00:21:00] Yea, the distinction is very clear there where I guess [it a fellow] (ph) can be much muddier. (inaudible at 00:21:15) (pause) And I guess—is part of the problem across the board the sense of betraying yourself by not writing about what you actually believe or what matter to you in either case?
CLIENT: I mean it's definitely a problem of if I'm not doing that. But I would rather do it on my own time than do it for whatever I'm paying rent with, I guess. [00:22:14] So I worry that if the financial reporting takes my writing energies away from the novel, that's a problem.
THERAPIST: I see. I guess what I'm wondering about is the extent to which—back up—it seems to me part of the problem is there doesn't seem to be as much space for you in any of this. Whether it's trying to live on $4 an hour being part of the textbook writing and you're hoping that there will be a little space for you with the job in D.C., I think, being out of the area and in D.C. which is something, in something that you'll like. [00:23:05] In a lot of ways, but not always—
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: —doing a job that sort of—that you would also—has probably clearer limits in terms of times than graduate school does. 
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: And will provide you with more security. That will give you a little more breathing room kind of than you've had. 
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: And you really don't have very much. And even if things do work out with this job, and I know they will, it still doesn't sound like a lot. 
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: So it sounds like it would some humiliating (ph) things about it which I imagine part of what you're dreading.
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: And part of what's making you feel depressed. (inaudible at 00:24:00) 
CLIENT: Yea. I mean, it's really nice to think about time that is actually my own—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —[yet again] (ph) because that's the one thing that I really hated about grad school was having no time that felt like my time. 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: But yea, I just remember when I had this job before, especially on the weekdays, I just had no energy. 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: I could read and I wrote a little bit. I mean, that was when I really started writing in a way that led to fiction. I started doing fictionalized journaling then but it wasn't every day and it was small bits of this and that. And hopefully that will change. I mean, I've been talking to Seth about this and he's having trouble. [00:25:01] He has a nine to five job that he doesn't really care about that much. Right, he had a really hard time finding work and he's trying to write.
THERAPIST: What's he doing?
CLIENT: He's working at a production company that does documentaries and also promo spots. They do one or two documentaries but they also do promo spots to make more money. So he sort of does administrative and productive, production assistance actually (ph). So he tries to get up early three mornings a week to write for two hours. But—and then to write on the weekends. But he's sensing that he's burned out. (chuckling) And it's not even a job he cares about but still just—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —like between the commute, which I would have too, and everything. [00:25:59] And he does it but it leaves him not much time to have a social life. 
THERAPIST: Yea.
CLIENT: And the writing doesn't feel like prime time where his mind is really on because it's at odd hours.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (chuckling) (pause) And—
THERAPIST: Are you having much time to write now or recently? I mean, you (inaudible at 00:26:35) much about it or are you getting that much time on your novel?
CLIENT: Yea. I mean, I make myself write at least five hundred words a day of fiction generally. It could be the novel or it could be something else and there are days when I write more. There have been some days when I have been too depressed to write anything or too sick. [00:27:01] But there have been days when I've written stuff I'm happy with. And I mean every week I have at least like three days where I come up with stuff that I like and want to include. And every day at least I do something. I also do journaling and I'm reading contemporary fiction every day. So—
THERAPIST: Good. (inaudible at 00:27:32) something?
CLIENT: Yea. Yea, so I have had a routine that I feel like I'm at least moving forward—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —right now. 
THERAPIST: And doing something that feels more like you. 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea, I've made time for it and then it's happening. So—but it's just frustrating because when I write this or that and it's not like I'm getting closer to being finished. [00:28:05] I'm writing more stuff but I'm not really that eager to set goals for finishing when I sort of like what I'm coming with. But I do have this sort of (inaudible at 00:28:30) tradition that when I will be all done] (ph), I'll quit whatever job I have, yea right. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yes. Maybe (inaudible at 00:28:42) it could happen.
CLIENT: Although none of them working as a journalist. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Another unfortunate thing about having to get a job. [00:28:59] But applying to them is helpful because it makes me put new samples together. I applied to a couple earlier. And I put together a new version of the first 40 pages which I'm always—since it's just moving pieces from different parts, I can always change it and put different things together. And I don't know. This new version was so much stronger than anything I put together last time. (pause) [00:30:00] 
I guess it's sort of miserable of ending stuff I've been doing. I am able to sort of be myself on a day-to-day basis. And when I—if I get this job, I'll go back to being a journalist or just more appealing than being a grad student because as a grad student you have to be sort of some hyper version of yourself that's supposed to be authentic but can't be because it's too hyper. And as a journalist, you're not even supposed to be yourself which is a relief in a lot of ways because it's like a shield. But it would be strange to go back to that but better than a lot of other things. 
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) [00:31:06] That's a pretty terrible compromise or do you think it's a better one in some ways?
CLIENT: Yea. I feel so lame. I'm so poorly suited to work (chuckling) at a job. It makes me feel like I really suck. Like—(crying) (pause) 
THERAPIST: I don't know. I understand, I think, what you mean. I guess it wouldn't my diagnosis like you suck. [00:32:10] 
CLIENT: That I suck. (laughing) (crying) 
THERAPIST: That you're just simply unsuited to work because you suck. I think you do have a real vulnerability around feeling kind of alienated from yourself. That taking on the identity required to work causes you to feel or can cause you to feel in a very painful way. But I'm not—this might pin-point it—it doesn't look so much like you suck as—(pause) I don't know. Like that this has kind of something have been suffering with in which really the traumatic things that have happened and made worse. [00:33:18] I mean unquestionably what happened at the beginning of grad school like was not the only factor but contributed the way you were treated and the culture in the program to making things much more difficult for you than it otherwise would have been, I think. (pause) Yea and what happened to you before that sort of thing as well. 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea it would be sort of nice not to know how badly a weird religious culture could affect me. [00:34:09] And how—yea I mean, I just still feel a sense of like shock and surprise when I think about what that time was like.
THERAPIST: Yea. I hope, by the way, it occurs to me like you know when I did like—I hope you don't hear that as like a disguised or psychobabble-y or a fancier way of saying you suck. That's not how I'm seeing it but I guess I want to ask you whether that's how you hear it.
CLIENT: (chuckling) No.
THERAPIST: I guess well, that's good. 
CLIENT: (chuckling) Although, I felt I'd tell myself that again (inaudible at 00:34:51) (chuckling) (pause) [00:35:01] 
THERAPIST: I see that you've been thinking that a lot. 
CLIENT: I know. (pause) I mean, I feel like the dominant ethos in this country is a positive work ethic. And that's seems hard to—I don't know. To feel good about yourself when you—then continuously unfit to work. (pause) [00:36:08] And I feel guilty about having reservations about this job which may not even come through but I'm hopeful. I mean, I don't think he would ask me to come to D.C. for an interview if there weren't at least a decent chance that something could happen.
THERAPIST: Yea. [It sounds good.] (ph) (pause) [00:37:03] (sneeze)
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Thanks. (sneeze) Thanks. (pause) Well, what else is on your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: (blowing nose)
CLIENT: I guess I've been also judging myself for—of course you just want to like not have a regular job and write your novel. I guess not what everyone wants. (chuckling) And I'm feeling even worse because I'm not sort of progressing toward goals with finishing it. [00:38:05] But I don't know I'm enjoying it. I don't want to ruin it for myself. And I am writing every day. It's hard to feel anything that's sort of circular thoughts because there are just so many things stressing me out right now. (chuckling) I don't even know how to hold a train of thought right now. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Well, I guess you're really upset. It also occurs to me that, perhaps at times anyway, coming here has felt like another thing that you are doing kind of for yourself when it's sort of about you. And it's not quite the same way as writing that you'd imagined like in some fashion or another.
CLIENT: Yea. [00:39:04] 
THERAPIST: And I wonder then if anticipating having to stop goes together with some of the other ways that you're feeling so boxed in. 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea I mean, just sort of imagining like—I mean, it's been really nice. It's been able to explore things and put things together that I wouldn't have otherwise. So I've just been—I mean there have been times when it's been very difficult to come in every week and talk. But it's also been comforting in different ways. Like sort of on two extreme ends of the spectrum. (chuckling) Usually things aren't both challenging and comforting at the same time. [00:40:01] 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But this has been. (pause) Yea and it is scary just to think of stopping just because I ran out of money.
THERAPIST: Right and not for some more clinical reason?
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: Well, we should finish up for now. And so we'll be on at least for next week and a few weeks after that. And we will sort of sort out an ending next week for some time.
CLIENT: OK, yea.
THERAPIST: Good luck again with your interview.
CLIENT: Thank you. (chuckling) I'll see you next week.
THERAPIST: Yea. Sure. 
END TRANSCRIPT
