TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: I peaked out a little before. Had you been sitting there long?
PATIENT: I had been sitting there for a while and then I just got up and went to the bathroom.
COUNSELOR: Oh, that's when I missed you then.
PATIENT: Hi. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Hi. How are you doing?
PATIENT: All right. (laughter) How are you?
COUNSELOR: I'm fine. (laughter) What should we talk about?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I feel stressed out again. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Stressed out.
PATIENT: I feel I handle situations worse and worse now. Just little things like get me really stressed out. Like my first visit this morning was in the field was like a two and a half hour visit where the client and the homemaker were just - this client just talks a lot. She's my most talkative client. And she doesn't really - she won't let anyone else talk. And the homemaker and her have problems and they're, "Lah, lah, lah." I was so stressed out by the time I left that place. And I wouldn't have normally been. Like I -
COUNSELOR: So there's something about your prevalent state that's -
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You don't have tolerance for that.
PATIENT: I don't have as much tolerance at all. I don't have as much tolerance. So like I hear about something that a homemaker did or whatever and I'm like, "blah."
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: Just, I just - gets me crazy. Like yesterday -
COUNSELOR: Do you vocalize it? Do you kind of say, "What are you doing?"
PATIENT: Yes. Not, not to their - I mean like its situations that I hear about. Like one of my clients called me and told me that her teenage son has a crush on the weekend homemaker. And the weekend homemaker went and took a nap in his bed with him this weekend, which I thought was preposterous. I mean, what the hell is she doing? She's not supposed to be taking a nap anyway in the client's bed. And then she jumps into bed with a kid, just incredible. And then one of my - Jason - Jason didn't say that there was problem with that. And I don't understand that. How can you not see a problem with that? (laughter) [2:50]
COUNSELOR: Yes. (pause) So crushes are a little over-determined for me.
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: I'm - I don't know. I'm sort of like, I'm listening to you as what you're saying and I'm also wondering. I'm acting like such a therapist. (laughter) But I'm wondering if that has anything to do with us.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I don't know either yet. We can see. I'm kind of - yes. Right.
PATIENT: (Laughter) I don't know. (pause) I'm just - little things just stress me out -
COUNSELOR: Little things are stressing you out?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I just don't - I get very upset about everything. (Sigh) I'm just a bitch. (laughter) I'm bitchier. I'm bitchier than I've ever been in my life. (laughter) I've never been bitchy.
COUNSELOR: But what make of - what's going on with you that you that you're easily stressed out and feel bitchy? What - do you have a sense of what it's about?
PATIENT: I mean - it's just part of the whole way I feel now. I'm just depressed and very anxious.
COUNSELOR: Depressed and anxious at the same time?
PATIENT: Yes. Just like, something can just make me really uncomfortable really quickly. And it's just nuts. And then other times just things irritate me very easily and I just - I get bitchy. [5:05]
COUNSELOR: Let me - I'm going to - I'm afraid I might be forcing something. But I'm just going to put this out and you can see - see if it fits at all because this is kind of a shot in the dark. But the story you're saying about that guy, the homemaker who jumps in bed with the kid to take a nap. Are you at all concerned about, sort of being able to keep appropriate boundaries in here given some of the - given what you were talking about?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: So it's not like that?
PATIENT: I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: You see it's - there's an intellectual connection there but I don't know if it rings true to you. And so -
PATIENT: Yes. (pause) I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Last time the first thing I talked about was relevant.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Right. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I never thought about (inaudible at 6:13). (pause) What should I talk about?
COUNSELOR: Or where to next? (pause)
PATIENT: (laughter)
COUNSELOR: (laughter) Are you performing for - and -
PATIENT: Yes, I've basically forgotten about those things. It's just - never mind.
COUNSELOR: In the silence, yes.
PATIENT: (pause) (laughter) I don't know what to talk about. (pause)
COUNSELOR: How's it feel to sit here and not talk about it? It feels a little different to me. Does it feel different to you?
PATIENT: To not talk? [7:40]
COUNSELOR: Yes. I mean from times in the past.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: How is different for you?
PATIENT: I don't know, I just like I don't know what to say. I normally come in with a - I mean I was thinking of things on the train ride to talk about. (laughter) But I don't know. I'm just kind of blank. And then I was thinking - well one of the things is what's bothering me. This happened to me at my last visit was just where I went to visit the family where this happened.
COUNSELOR: Where the teenager and them were napping.
PATIENT: Yes. (laughter) Yes. And I talked to the mother. It was the first time I met the mother because we have provided homemakers since she was very sick. She has cancer and she was in the hospital the whole time. And she had just gotten out of the hospital. She's been in an out. She was out for a few days last week and then went back in. And she's just really sick. She's really sick.
COUNSELOR: You mean she - the cancer is really taken its toll?
PATIENT: Yes. It just made me so sad. Just so sad, she has 4 children. She's just so - she's just like a skeleton. She's - it's so wonderful because I see rarely with most of the people that I work that there's someone there that's really helpful, like in the family that's just always there. And the father of her last baby, who's 14 months old now, is just there all the time, just helping out. And it's just beautiful. He's just - he's so concerned. And you can see it. And he's just a good person. And he's just there doing everything for her, changing her diapers and just - I mean, I just have rarely seen that. And it's just; it was really nice to see. Because we would have been able to provide her with someone that could help her just for her, but he's there and he's just wonderful. It was really nice to see. But it's just - she's just so sick. And it was just really upsetting. And just pray them - glad that they like bond and give like that for so long. [10:05]
You know my mother went pretty fast. And then it just brought back like an image of my mother in the hospital before she died. And just was like, oh god.
COUNSELOR: What was that like for you? I mean, what were some of the feelings that it evoked?
PATIENT: It was just - it makes me think about that.
COUNSELOR: Did you have a reaction or did you not really have one?
PATIENT: During the visit?
COUNSELOR: Yes. I mean it's obviously very evocative for you. Your mother died of cancer. You're working with patients who are dying of cancer.
PATIENT: I got to visit (inaudible at 10:42) when I got on the train afterwards I just sat there and thought about it. And my eyes were just overflowing. And I just closed my eyes and they were just covered with tears. (pause) You know I just can't imagine. It's like the oldest kid in the house is 14. (inaudible) watching her die. I mean she's there but she's like a skeleton. You know? She's just like - she's so sick. And like sometimes she can hardly talk.
And then there was a family last week where the mother just died. She had been in the hospital for quite a while and she came home to die basically. And there's a 13-year-old boy and an eight-year-old girl. And - I mean she couldn't talk anymore. (sigh) (pause)
COUNSELOR: So what's that tying to in you - when someone - this image of this woman who can't talk anymore and her kids are watching her die?
PATIENT: I don't know. It's just so sad.
COUNSELOR: Yes. It seems to go pretty deep.
PATIENT: (sigh) (pause) I don't know. It's just very sad. And sometimes I don't know if I can take this anymore.
COUNSELOR: Do a lot of your - a lot of the - of your clients have cancer?
PATIENT: Not right now. My caseload now is very next (ph). Last year, for the year and a half that I was there before I left my caseload was purely cancer. [13:13]
COUNSELOR: Not just cancer, people that are just HIV positive too?
PATIENT: Yes. It's a mix. The people who are HIV positive and then people that have progressed to AIDS. But it was all - it was entirely HIV, my caseload last year.
COUNSELOR: I don't know. It would strike me that that would be very evocative for you.
PATIENT: I don't know. It's very upsetting.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: It's very upsetting.
COUNSELOR: Does it remind you of your mom? Does it remind you of your dad in some way?
PATIENT: I don't remember my dad.
COUNSELOR: Now I'm sort of - (pause)
PATIENT: Sometimes it reminds me of my mom. I mean I think my first client that died. This was one of my very first clients ever. They were an Irish-American family. She had a 16-year-old daughter. And I was 16 when my mother died. And we visit - well last year depending on the case we visited her every month or every three months. This client I visited every three months. The first time I visited her she was healthy looking. I guess the previous case coordinator hadn't visited her at all. So she was wondering why I was there. She was just like, so what are you doing here. But like we really enjoyed each other I think. I mean our visits were - she would talk about a lot of things. And I always enjoyed visiting her and I think she enjoyed my visits too. And the first time I met her she was just so healthy looking and just really strong. The second time she was getting a little bit worse and she was having a lot of philosophical questions about dying and disease and things and talking about that. And the next time I went she was just like a skeleton with skin hanging off her. And it was very upsetting, very upsetting. And then she died. And - [15:36]
COUNSELOR: That's a universally upsetting thing. But what is it for you that it evokes, this image of a woman there with skin hanging off her body?
PATIENT: I don't know. (pause) It's just very upsetting sometimes.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: (pause) I mean my mother wasn't - she was sick but she wasn't like somebody (inaudible at 16:54) like that images, like, (inaudible) I don't know. I didn't know my mother had cancer until a couple days before she died.
COUNSELOR: Oh what did you think she had?
PATIENT: I thought she had tuberculosis but I didn't even want to know that. I was basically like I didn't want to talk about it. I knew she was sick but I was just like, I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. At one my point my father was like, why don't we sit down with this social worker or whatever and talk about mom's illness (inaudible) and I said, "I don't want to talk about it now. We'll talk about - wait until we get back from this trip. And I was taking a three-week backpacking trip with Zack, my best friend. And so we went on this trip. And I was called back. They were like, somebody found me out in the woods basically on this trip because my mother was in the hospital. And I came back. And I flew back from Canada. And then she was in the hospital. And about four days later she died. And that we were in the parking lot coming home one night, my father, and me and I said, "What - what is this, the damn cigarettes? Whatever, lah, lah, lah, what's going on?" And he was like no it's not the cigarettes. And I said, "Well what is it?" And he said, "Mom has cancer." And I screamed. I just like, ahhhh, I just scream. I remember in the parking lot I just sat and (inaudible at 18:25).
COUNSELOR: And it wasn't something you found yourself doing having spontaneous (inaudible) screaming like -
PATIENT: Ahhhh.
COUNSELOR: And was there a feeling?
PATIENT: Like oh, my God.
COUNSELOR: Like just overwhelmed.
PATIENT: It was just overwhelming, like I knew at that point that she was not leaving the hospital alive most probably. And I don't remember if he had told me that or - the day before. I think he actually might have told me that the day before, like she's not leaving the hospital alive.
COUNSELOR: So you were 16 and your way of trying to deal with it at time was to kind of say, "I don't want to think about that."
PATIENT: Before - when she was sick I was just like, I don't want to hear about it. I don't want to know.
COUNSELOR: I don't want to know.
PATIENT: Yes. And then when I came back it was better because I was out in the woods and that's always like just revitalizing for me. And I just came back and I was able to. But it was shocking to hear. I was just like whoa. And so I was just like blahhh. And then it was okay. And I just spent time with her. I talked to her. I didn't talk to her about that. My father wanted - my mother wanted my father to tell me. She didn't want to tell me. She just wanted to know that I knew before she died. [19:40]
COUNSELOR: So you never spoke to her about the fact that she was dying of cancer?
PATIENT: No. I never spoke to her about that. She just wanted me to know before she died. And she wanted my father to tell me. And then she wanted my father - she wanted to know that I knew. And then I think I knew probably one or two days before she died. And (pause) that's the way it happened. And then I was just not allowed to tell anyone. I had this very close friend.
COUNSELOR: By who's rule?
PATIENT: My father's. I was just not to tell anyone.
COUNSELOR: And - this is a remarkable story. Right? To me it's a remarkable story. You didn't know that your mother was dying and you weren't allowed to say. Was there any logic to it?
PATIENT: He was just afraid because it was just a -
COUNSELOR: It was such a taboo.
PATIENT: It was such a taboo. It was such a taboo. And it was just at that point it was thought that it was just like it was horrible, dirty, diseased people. And we lived in this nice little resort in Atlantic City. I went to Atlantic City high school. And my father was just scared for me. He was scared that people would know and that I would be ridiculed. I mean my father still is like weird on it. If I mention to him that I told someone or that I mentioned to - oh so and so knows and so we were talking about this or whatever. He's uncomfortable with it. But now after a few years, I just started telling people. And I tell people that I'm comfortable with. And sometimes I just, whatever, I'm open with it at this point. I don't think - it just like goes ahead with the whole stigma that like, I should be embarrassed that my mother died of a disease or something. And like that's what I feel, like he's telling me not to tell anyone, hush, hush, hush. Oh so we should be embarrassed then? We should be really embarrassed. This is a really bad thing. But he - [21:43]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're - there's a kind of part of you that's angry at him.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: For shutting you up.
PATIENT: Yes. And then afterwards I realized that he had told some of his friends. He had told like one or two of his good friends.
COUNSELOR: So he demanded of you and didn't demand it of himself.
PATIENT: Yes. I mean Zack was my best friend. I mean I could of told Zack. I mean looking back I don't know if Zack could have handled it. I don't know because as it is he didn't handle my mother's death very well. He didn't handle me during my mother's death very well. I guess I just got really bitchy and he basically just pushed me away. And that was a big thing.
COUNSELOR: Did you - was there a part of you that was afraid to tell him? Was there a part of you that feared the stigma? I mean you're 16. Not really?
PATIENT: I guess so.
COUNSELOR: I don't - I mean I'm really asking - I'm not suggesting it.
PATIENT: Yes. Like I wouldn't have told very many people. I would have told Zack.
COUNSELOR: There's a part of you that wanted to tell your best friend.
PATIENT: Yes. And at one point I thought he knew because we went to the Village and there was someone handing out this pamphlet, Cancer is Biological Warfare of the U.S. Government. And I was like, "Yes, you know, damn, you know, blah ahh ahh." And it was just very upsetting. And he was like whatever. "It's just another way people are dying. It's just another way people are dying. Whatever." And I figured he like would have picked up on it, I don't know why, but -
COUNSELOR: Well and did you - who was saying that? The guy who had the pamphlets or -
PATIENT: They guy handing out the pamphlet.
COUNSELOR: And how did you react?
PATIENT: I was like, yes, s***, biological warfare, whatever. And I was just very angry. And then I was upset. And it just really affected me, this pamphlet. And I was with him and he was kind of like. And he kind of questioned it. But I guess he had no clue.
COUNSELOR: Why you had gotten so upset.
PATIENT: Yes. But I told him years and years, you know, a couple years later. But -
COUNSELOR: It's - so there's something about - you've spoken about your father as feeling like he's too much. Like you're just like ehh. But there was something about him when you were 16 that really had a hold on you. He asked you not tell.
PATIENT: And I didn't.
COUNSELOR: And you didn't tell.
PATIENT: I didn't -
COUNSELOR: And he didn't hold herself to (cross talk).
PATIENT: You know I never thought about that. I never thought about that like I could of if I wanted to. I always just thought like that's just - I wasn't allowed to period.
COUNSELOR: Right. Why do you think that is that there's a part of you that really is loyal to your father in a way that most people wouldn't be? Right? [24:25]
PATIENT: Yes. I guess so. (pause) I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What's it feel like now when you said, "I never thought of it. I never thought that I could."
PATIENT: I don't know - it seems so obvious to me now that like I could have if I really trusted in myself I could have just said, "Oh f*** this. I'm going to tell my best friend," because my best friend has been my best friend, like a really good friend.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I could have just told him. And I'm just like realizing like, holy s***, I can't believe I didn't -
COUNSELOR: It sounds like -
PATIENT: - for two years.
COUNSELOR: - your emotional reaction is anger. Is it? Or -
PATIENT: I guess. It's partly anger and it's partly like my god. Like -
COUNSELOR: Like how could I have done this?
PATIENT: How could I have done this? Like how have I could not told him? How could I have like just blindly been like, all right I won't tell? I won't tell - shhhh, big family secret. I mean I wouldn't have told everyone. It's not necessary to tell everyone. But like that was part of what I was going through. All the like, oh look at the scab on my skin. I have cancer. All this s*** about dirty unhealthy people and cancer and -. I could have told Zack. I could have told Zack.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. So it must have been confusing. You were 17, 18 and there's all these jokes. And it's like your mother died of cancer but you haven't told anyone. And you didn't really even know until a couple days before. It doesn't sound you got talk about it in your family like, what does it mean to us that our mother, our wife died of cancer?
PATIENT: Oh it wasn't talked about until this year.
COUNSELOR: So it's hard to -
PATIENT: This year was the first time that my father's revealed anything.
COUNSELOR: So there you are -. Right. It doesn't have -
PATIENT: And like for years, even me and my brother, we weren't talking about. I don't think I'd ever talked to my brother about it, like in the few years after it happened. Like it was just not mentioned. It was just mom died. Mom died. And like sometimes it was like (inaudible at 26:35). But like we never even talked about it. We never even talked. I mean I remember talking to my therapist at the time. You know, my mom died of cancer and whatever and I can't tell anyone. And she's like, kind of - I don't know this particularly sticks out, I guess it - I don't know. She said, "Does it really matter?" And I was like -
COUNSELOR: Does what really matter? What she died of?
PATIENT: Yes, what she died of. And I was kind of like, no. But it's part of what I'm going through. Like, it doesn't. But like her comment almost made me feel like bad. Like, oh my god, I'm turning into this like, oh my god I'm so embarrassed thing or something. I don't know. I don't know. It's just strange.
COUNSELOR: Well there was something about what she said there that wasn't - it did matter to you. Right, at some level?
PATIENT: It was part of what I was going through because -
COUNSELOR: So like kind of -
PATIENT: - just the whole stigma of it and the fact that it was just, I mean.
COUNSELOR: Right. So when she said that, it's kind of like it takes away your experience a little bit. Right?
PATIENT: Yes. You know another thing, did I ever tell you this other thing that - I mean, I'm just - as I'm on this therapist thing. She told me once, the last time I saw her actually. I had been to this party. We had this big Christmas party at the agency with all of the homemakers and whatever. And the guy that was renting out the place that worked in this social service agency and like rented out this particular place. I had talked to him for a little while. He got my phone number and he started calling me. He's black. And I told - I was talking about guy and like, oh my god - you know I can't - oh my god - I can't go out with him, whatever. And after a few sessions I mentioned that he was black. And that was the last session. And she said to me don't do anything before we talk again. And she was going to be on vacation for a month. She said, "Don't do anything. Don't go out with him before we talk again because this could be hairy because he's black." And I was like, what? You're telling me not to act of a month because he's black. [28:40]
COUNSELOR: You look really pissed off right now.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's just kind of this controlling suffocating thing to do. Right?
PATIENT: Yes. Like I can't make my own decision? I mean and I felt like her comment on one hand, I couldn't make my own decisions. And on the other hand it's because he's black. And this is real - I mean, fine there can be issues between blacks and whites. I know. But like, no way should you tell someone to wait a month to make an action in your own life.
COUNSELOR: It was almost like - it was like her life.
PATIENT: Yes. Wait a month for her. Wait a month for her.
COUNSELOR: And then did - and then you said that was your last session so you never went back.
PATIENT: I never went back.
COUNSELOR: You were pissed off at her.
PATIENT: Ever since (inaudible at 29:30) and part of it was I didn't really want to go back. Part of it was that I was using the insurance and then they took my disability away from me because I was in therapy. That's why I didn't use my insurance this time because they took my disability insurance away from me because they felt I was really depressed. I mean that wasn't even her diagnosis. Depression wasn't her diagnosis. And she had to write something in to the insurance company.
COUNSELOR: You mean your disability insurance was taken away because you were depressed?
PATIENT: Because I was in therapy. But she didn't even write that I was depressed. That wasn't her diagnosis. Depression, it wasn't even her - I mean a simple diagnosis of depression wasn't even her diagnosis. Even if it was depression, even if it was whatever, they shouldn't have taken my disability away. So that was a whole big embarrassing thing, that my boss was involved with the office manager. And I was just like, s***, I'm not going back. Forget it. I don't want to deal with this. I just want my disability insurance back and to be cleared of this s***.
COUNSELOR: So you were really pissed off. Pissed off at her, pissed off at this system that somehow - if you're a risk we'll take away your insurance.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Like, or I'm imagining that's what it was.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So -
PATIENT: I moved into the city too, anyway.
COUNSELOR: And you what?
PATIENT: I moved into the city so I wasn't going to go back to her then for therapy. (pause)
COUNSELOR: Would you tell her? Could you tell a therapist?
PATIENT: At first (inaudible at 31:11) I don't know if I could do that. My first reaction was her son died a year ago, I can't tell her. (laughter) I don't want to upset her. I never talked to her after her son died and I feel bad about that too. Her son died. (laughter) I'm laughing, I don't know - I guess I shouldn't feel bad. But like, her son died on that vacation. They went to New Mexico and he couldn't stand the altitude. And he died. And I never talked to her after that. (laughter) (inaudible at 31:46) I don't know why I'm smiling over this.
COUNSELOR: Are you worried about it ending or -?
PATIENT: Partly. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: It's interesting, I mean. You said I couldn't do that, well her son died a year ago.
PATIENT: Yes, I don't know. That was ridiculous.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: (Laughter) I don't know. That wasn't my, (laughter) that was my initial like, oh she's suffering, I can't -
COUNSELOR: Right. So you couldn't be angry with her.
PATIENT: That was a year though. But I couldn't be angry. I don't know, I just - I would feel bad. I mean, she wouldn't mind. But (laughter) -
COUNSELOR: But you would feel uncomfortable being that angry?
PATIENT: I would be uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: So it means emotion for you, anger.
PATIENT: Anger. (pause) Sometimes it's pretty easy.
COUNSELOR: Sometimes you get angry in here.
PATIENT: I definitely - I definitely get angry. I definitely get angry.
COUNSELOR: That's right, you came in. You said you were being such a bitch at work. I imagine some of that was anger, like you showed people part of your angry side. [33:01]
PATIENT: Yes. But I'm mostly bitchy to Jason. I'm not bitchy to other people. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: You pick. You pick your victim.
PATIENT: Yes. (laughter) Jason's my victim. And he notices. He's like, gosh, you're so cold sometimes. (laughter) I was like, oh god.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? You mean that he had seen - that he noticed that you could be cold to him.
PATIENT: Yes. I feel bad. But he just bugs me sometimes (laughter). I'm bitchy to my best friend sometimes. I don't know. (pause) (laughter)
COUNSELOR: How about -
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Well I was - yes. I was just wondering what was happening. And I was sort of thinking - I was sitting here wondering about how easy it is for you to be angry with people. Like would you go to your therapist and say, "That really felt insensitive, and controlling, and smothering." Or however you experienced it. Or would that be hard for you?
PATIENT: See the - I don't know. Part of me feels like it would be hard. And then part of me feels like it wouldn't be. But part of me feels like it's just irrelevant right now. [34:49]
COUNSELOR: Right. You mean to actually go back and do that?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I mean it's -
COUNSELOR: That you're past that and you're in a different stage in your life.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I mean I should have thought about it at the time. I should - I kind of thought about it and then it didn't really matter. But at the time I should have thought about it more and been like, hold it, that's not right.
COUNSELOR: A question for me that I'm sort of holding, is not so much the specific but like, how comfortable are you part - are you with the part of you that can get angry because anger is about feeling like you're being attacked or smothered and then you retaliate? It's very adaptive. So that's sort of what I'm sitting here wondering about. I'm not really thinking. I mean I'm getting to know that part of you.
PATIENT: I think anger is sometimes very easy for me. (laughter) But it's sometimes easy.
COUNSELOR: When's it easy?
PATIENT: I mean I definitely get angry.
COUNSELOR: Like?
PATIENT: I get angry with my father. I get angry (inaudible 35:57). I get bitchy.
COUNSELOR: Bitchy's different right?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Bitchy's like you don't really have to own it if you're bitchy, right?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Like anger's like, I'm mad at you.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Bitchy's like -
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: I don't know.
PATIENT: It's true. It's true.
COUNSELOR: What's bitchy like for you? What are you like when you're bitchy?
PATIENT: Like insensitive and just making like snap comments. Just -
COUNSELOR: I don't think I've seen this in you. Have I?
PATIENT: Bitchy?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I guess not. I mean I'm not bitchy a lot. (inaudible at 36:51) bitchy. (laughter) (pause) (laughter) I don't know why if feels funny. (laughter) It's not funny. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: It's for minutes.
PATIENT: What is this thing anyways? (laughter)
COUNSELOR: It is a mic, a microphone.
PATIENT: Oh yes?
COUNSELOR: Sue (ph) mic.
PATIENT: (Laughter)
COUNSELOR: You didn't - did you know? Had you noticed it before?
PATIENT: I noticed it before but I just looked at it like, what is that thing?
COUNSELOR: Did you wonder what it was before?
PATIENT: Slight - I wondered but I didn't really -
COUNSELOR: Process.
PATIENT: It didn't really bother me that much. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Well what sense do we make out of our when we're sitting here. You know? Like when we're sitting here and it makes you a little uncomfortable. It's usually like when I'm, sort of - my experience is I'm waiting - I'm just sort of waiting to see where you want to go. But somehow - what sense do you make of it? Or what's the feeling?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Because it feels to me like you kind of - there's like two levels. You get uncomfortable and then you get sort of critical for being uncomfortable. You kind of go, "I don't know why I'm -"
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: It almost feels like you're critical of yourself for being that way.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Does it feel that way?
PATIENT: Yes. I'm often critical of myself. I am, unfortunately. What was kind of happening, like a few minutes ago when I kind of got uncomfortable, I was like (laughter) it was just a thing about whatever. I was like, oh can't you know (laughter) - he knows all my s***. (laughter) (inaudible 39:00).
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Like, I'm a bitch. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: So you were feeling like I know all your s***. I know all the bad things about you so I could never like you.
PATIENT: I mean and I don't want to like, not say anything here. I mean I say everything here. I don't - you know, I don't -
COUNSELOR: Are you self-conscious about the camera?
PATIENT: I am a little bit.
COUNSELOR: Yes. You keep looking over there.
PATIENT: Yes. Today I'm very self-conscious about the camera. I haven't thought about it for a few sessions. Now I've between the time and camera.
COUNSELOR: You're - these are your focal points.
PATIENT: Yes. (laughter) Then I go to the mic for a minute too. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: So what do you - any sense of what it's about? Is it about, like you're - I don't know - I mean I can spin lots of theories that I could offer us. But any -
PATIENT: Offer some.
COUNSELOR: Is it staying away from me? If you're [stuttering sound] decreases this? Is it -?
PATIENT: I guess so.
COUNSELOR: I mean it could be. Is it that? I don't -
PATIENT: It could be part of it but -
COUNSELOR: It does feel that way. Because these are just - I'm just spinning these. Who knows what it is.
PATIENT: I feel like it's more comfortable if I come in here with one thing to talk about for an hour, for 45 minutes and that's it. And none of this little like - [40:21]
COUNSELOR: And then -
PATIENT: - a little here, a little there and I have to like look at you (laughter).
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I'm like, where's the camera? Where's the - (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Right. So there's something about a little here, a little there and then you have to look at me. It's like we have to make contact. Right.
PATIENT: (Laughter)
COUNSELOR: So is that - is there more to the camera? Is there something about being videoed or video taped that's uncomfortable or not really?
PATIENT: I don't know. It's bothering me today. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Well let's stay with the first thing then because - how do you experience those moments where we're kind of just sitting there?
PATIENT: Well now it's more - like in the beginning, it was - the first couple of sessions it happened basically in the beginning of the session where I didn't know what to talk about. And then (inaudible at 41:49) until today, I feel like that's basically been - it's kind of in the beginning and then it's okay. Now today I kind of feel very exposed just because I've exposed myself to you. And so now it's just like - it kind of just - it sits there when there's a lull. And it's kind of like -
COUNSELOR: Right, this feeling of being exposed.
PATIENT: Yes. It's just like -
COUNSELOR: Well here I am -
PATIENT: There I am.
COUNSELOR: - with all my s***.
PATIENT: Right there I am with all my s***.
COUNSELOR: And maybe I - how could I like someone with all this s***?
PATIENT: Kind of. I mean it's just funny the - to feel like - like you would be a man that I would be interested in. And here I am - gosh this is kind of interesting - and here I am just like, telling you I'm a bitch and tell you - and I don't know. Like I wouldn't want you to think I was a bitch. And I really (laughter) not a bitch. So -
COUNSELOR: Thank you for sparing me. (laughter)
PATIENT: Right. I'm really not attracted to you. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Right. So I'm not quite sure, are you saying - why is it interesting to you? What you said, "well this is interesting."
PATIENT: Because I - I don't know. I mean partly it would tell you something about men, like my relations to men, like I don't want men to know anything bad about me. Like I don't want a man to know like that I have any weaknesses or -
COUNSELOR: And if I - and if I know you have weakness, what do you think it might do? Or a man knows you have weaknesses?
PATIENT: It just - shew (ph).
COUNSELOR: Out with her. Is that I wouldn't find you acceptable, or desirable, or likable, or worthwhile?
PATIENT: Yes. Now I don't know how that ties into my liking men that I can't have, wanting men that I can't have.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But -
COUNSELOR: Well with them you don't even have to -
PATIENT: We don't have to go there. They don't know me at all.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: They wouldn't get to know me at all because they're just so off in the distance.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I mean, like it's with those men. I want to like, bring them closer. I want to bring them closer and I can't.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Yes. So there are two really poignant feelings. There's this like, men I can't have and I want to bring them closer. And then there's, I'm kind of being you, I'm sitting here telling you about myself. And I feel exposed. And I feel like who could like me if I tell them what a bitch I am. I mean so. How acceptable do you feel right now? [44:41]
PATIENT: Acceptable?
COUNSELOR: Yes. How much do you think I could like you right now?
PATIENT: Not too much. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: You feel kind of unlikable?
PATIENT: Sort of, not really. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Any sense of - you're moving away from it right now.
PATIENT: (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Any sense of (laughter) -
PATIENT: Hello Mr. Camera. You're looking better than Josh today. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: (laughter)
PATIENT: I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: We have a little safety realm over here. Hello Mr. Camera. (laughter) So you're aware of wanting to move away from it.
PATIENT: (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Are you? Or are you just following my lead?
PATIENT: Yes. Yes. No, no, no, go ahead.
COUNSELOR: No but are you aware of it?
PATIENT: Aware of moving away from there?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Well what -
PATIENT: I look down. My face got red. Did my face get red? Did you see my face get red?
COUNSELOR: I didn't see your face get red.
PATIENT: Oh, okay.
COUNSELOR: I just knew that somehow you were moving away.
PATIENT: Yes. I looked down.
COUNSELOR: Right. So there's - it's uncomfortable. Now what about it's uncomfortable?
PATIENT: I'll think about it. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: What's not uncomfortable about it? (laughter) Okay. All right. Well it's like I'm asking you to stay with it. Right? There's a - I'm sort of sitting here thinking there's a part of you that's right now feeling like, how could he like me? And I'm asking you to focus on it. And there's a part of you that kind of has hope. Right? That's saying, look I'm not a bitch. Right? I'm not totally unlikable.
PATIENT: Yes. See there's always a part of me that like - I mean I know I'm not unlikable. I mean I think I'm likable.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: But these men don't like me. (laughter) These men I want don't like me.
COUNSELOR: Well this - so we're trying to explore a certain experience you have, right? That sometimes when you were sitting here with me there was a moment when you felt like, I just said all this s***. How could he like me? Right?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: So and - you know part of the way I process that is, she's saying to me if I really show him who I am - really show him who I am, could I be accepted? That's - I don't know if that's what you're - that's one way that I make sense of it. My ways of making sense of it always change, as I know you better. But that's one way. And another thing, I hear you saying, it's important to say that this isn't like all of what you are. You're not just all this fear about not being likable.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: There's part of you that like yourself. [47:35]
PATIENT: Yes. Definitely. It's just weird to like - to come into therapy and care what you think.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Like I said - I think it was today, I was thinking about, well gosh he knows all the crap about me. Like he doesn't know the great things about me. Like there are a lot of really good things about me. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Should slip some of them in there.
PATIENT: I was like this sucks. Yes.
COUNSELOR: Yes. But why - in -
PATIENT: I know there's no points about take of it.
COUNSELOR: No, what were you going to say?
PATIENT: Nothing (laughter).
COUNSELOR: No, you were going to say something. There's no point to what?
PATIENT: Nothing.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: (Laughter) nothing.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Go ahead.
COUNSELOR: Why - what just happened there?
PATIENT: I don't know. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: You were going to say something. And then what you were afraid that you were interrupting? No?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Is that what happened?
PATIENT: (Laughter) Go ahead (laughter).
COUNSELOR: Well I don't - I can always remember what I'm saying. I'm often very - when you have a reaction like that.
PATIENT: Yes. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: You had this reaction like you thought I was saying something. And you kind of like, I know, I know, it's not. I don't know what you were going to say. It's not why should I care about feeling positive - showing you I'm positive or something. I'm curious what that's about, what you're saying. But you're kind of like quickly it goes away. Right?
PATIENT: (Laughter) Yes well -
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: No, no no.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. Right. Right. Why no, no, no? Why can't you say it?
PATIENT: Because (laughter).
COUNSELOR: Because why?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: It's just stupid. It's just silly.
COUNSELOR: But the silliness has its grip on you.
PATIENT: The silliness?
COUNSELOR: Right. You say it's silly why I can't - oh wait, what was silly? The thing you were going to say?
PATIENT: The thing I was going to say.
COUNSELOR: Oh so to say it was kind of silly.
PATIENT: Not silly, just kind of inappropriate.
COUNSELOR: Oh so you don't want - you're choosing not to say it.
PATIENT: I'm choosing not to say it.
COUNSELOR: Fine. Okay. I didn't understand that.
PATIENT: Okay. (laughter) I'm choosing not to say it.
COUNSELOR: Okay. We have to choose a way to wrap up. Is there something you want to wrap up with, or - [50:01]
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay.
PATIENT: Why he maintains his hope? That's it. That's why that I wouldn't want to - that I would want you to know.
COUNSELOR: Part of you maintains hope that -
PATIENT: A hope that like after therapy we like we could date and it would be wonderful.
COUNSELOR: I get it.
PATIENT: And we would go to parties. And people would say, "How did you meet?" And like we'd say, "Ha, ha, ha." I mean it's just so silly but that's what it was.
COUNSELOR: Right. Okay.
PATIENT: It's just embarrassing. (laughter) (pause)
COUNSELOR: You said this risky thing.
PATIENT: I'm just going for it. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: And then you kind of like trying to take care of yourself by kind of saying, "Well that was embarrassing." You're pointing out how embarrassing it was in a kind of serious way - not so serious way. Right?
PATIENT: Yes. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: Is that sort of. Okay.
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: I'll see you in a week.
END TRANSCRIPT
