Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: (Client starts out saying something but it is very inaudible). ..yesterday. Up and down. Yeah, yeah. I've been trying explicitly to be more honest with people and most people responded positively. And I was chatting with my friend and should we talk (in like a couple (inaudible)). And she said, "How are you doing?" And I was like, "I'm really not doing any better." And basically I said, "I don't want to bug you" and she said, "No no no, I want you to pry (laughs). That would be good. It's hard for me to reach out." So like,
THERAPIST: Right away.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was nice. But I also said, I also don't want to overburden you so, you know. Don't let me do that. Yeah. Yeah. I had a really good conversation I met up with a (inaudible) in my department who does like 19th century Literature. So completely different. Like same department but completely different. And I talked with him briefly at some point about possibly doing, getting more involved in student representation. The school is basically getting somebody to show up at meetings. And so, he was like, "Let's meet up and talk about things." And he didn't say what he wanted to talk about. And so, I was like, "Yeah, I'm not going to be here next year." And he's like, "Oh okay, well, let's just have lunch then." (laughs) And he's just very nice to me and that was good. He said that he had spent his first three years at the university just hating it. His mom had died just two weeks before he showed up and there was just no faculty recognition that maybe his situation was a little bit (inaudible) than most people? (pause)
CLIENT: [00:02:38] You know, I've been kind of avoiding people in my department (pause) Like, a lot. I don't know what to say and I don't know many of them very well. And, yeah, um, you know. To a large degree still just ashamed that this is the step that I have to take, that I can't be (pause), that I don't (trails off) I think there's a more reasonable view is that really everybody is in kind of the same boat that I am in one level or another. I ran into a woman who's in Bible also and who's doing her finishing year this coming year. And she's like, "Well, I'm looking for jobs because I'm not going to do adjunct, I'm not going to do a post-doc so, maybe I'll get a tenure track out of it, that's probably not going to happen, so I'm kind of shit out of luck." So. (laughs). And so, I don't know. (mumbles for a bit)
CLIENT: [00:03:59] This guy that I talked to, he's like, "You're pretty open about this for a Gentile." (Laughter.) I'm like, "Yeah, I know." (laughs) (pause) I'm trying to get insurance worked out. I think I have a quote, fill out the form, send it in today, probably. Just for future reference. I am not eligible to buy a PPO, an independent plan, if I'm covered under the insurance. If I can get insurance through an employer, I can't do an independent plan. So, oh well.
THERAPIST: So, with the insurance that you're signing up for, is it the school insurance?
CLIENT: No, I'm signing up for an individual PPO.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: For now, but like if next year I go back, I won't be able to. Basically, whatever my employer offers is what I have to take. We'll figure something out. (softly) Yeah, it'll be fine? Yeah, it's a good plan. (long pause)
CLIENT: [00:05:47 ] There's just a lot to do today. I have to fill out forms for my rental agreement, you know, send my next landlord the number of my previous landlord or management company so that they can give me a reference so that I don't have to get a co-signer. But I may have to get a co-signer anyway. Just doing stuff. (pause) But my boss told me I'm doing a good job. Which is good. (pause) It really helped. It was like, yesterday afternoon, I would be like, (not sure here...) There should be just good things happened. I got some really good work done, I'm doing, kind of like really enjoying the work that I'm doing. My, the professor I'm working for gave me some good feedback, I had lunch with this guy who's just like, just really kind in a way that is not, that most people are not like.
THERAPIST: Something seemed to happen there a minute ago. Like
CLIENT: I kind of went (breathes in), and then it was like, no, let's not talk about that (laughs). Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Do you know what made you go...?
CLIENT: Um. (pause) Just thinking about, like, just thinking about the fact that insurance is never going to stop being a pain in the ass for me. It's just always going to be more stuff to deal with. (pause) What happens when I get a fulltime job in two months? Like that would be ideal, that would be great, but then I have to do this ALL over again.
THERAPIST: The insurance thing?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I (pause) yeah. (pause) I'm also not feeling great physically. It's hard for me to get out the door today.
THERAPIST: Is it the same pain?
CLIENT: Yeah. If it's still like this tomorrow, I'll call and see if this is normal but (pause) Yeah. I don't know.
THERAPIST: [00:09:00 ] Sorry, I'm laughing because it was like, what could be a bigger pain than insurance?
CLIENT: (laughs) The number (unintelligible through laughter). But it's kind of like being in the hospital and learning how to advocate for ourselves. It sucks but I'm learning how the system works.
THERAPIST: No, I'm sorry, I meant like the pain from surgery.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. (laughs) Yeah, that's not nearly as bad as the insurance (laughs). I worry. I haven't had a whole, I haven't had a whole lot of loss in my life, like I haven't lost people that I've been close to. And I realize that the two people that I really have lost are Bryan and Dan. Those are the people I've grieved for. But I feel like the depression makes me, I don't know, it's like that's not as bad as the depression, grieving for somebody. It doesn't hurt as much. It hurts a lot, but it's not as bad. And I find that very strange, like I don't, I feel like it's not, that shouldn't be right. I don't know.
CLIENT: (long pause) [00:10:48 ] Yeah, I agree with the obvious. I was depressed at the time, also so it's hard to extract those two. But there was definitely a point where I was like, okay, I'm at peace with the way this relationship ended. I'm in an okay place now and that's separate from the depression. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: You (inaudible) settled with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And you know, the same thing happens with Bryan. Like I settle and then unsettle. Settle and then unsettle. I mean I still think about them both. (inaudible) regularly. (pause) So while I was (inaudible) with that, all of these good things happened to me yesterday and I was like at first I was like, this is really nice and then I was like, this can't be right. (laughs). I spent most of yesterday evening, re-running this conversation I had with this person who seemed to really like me, who was very kind to me. I was trying to figure out where I fucked up. And I'd be like, oh, you definitely did not do this, you definitely are not a good person (laughs). So (pause)
THERAPIST: [00:12:33 ] I'm sorry, which conversation was this?
CLIENT: Oh this was my insurance guy
THERAPIST: HR.
CLIENT: And I felt like, was he hitting on me? But he definitely wasn't. Or if he was, it was not something that I noticed. I usually pretty good as seeing that. (inaudible) And he's married. (long pause) I don't know. I don't know what to do (inaudible) (pause).
THERAPIST: I guess there was something that felt uncomfortable about it or unsettling about it?
CLIENT: [00:13:43 ] Unsettling. Yeah. (pause) It was like, in retrospect, I realized I had really let my guard down. And okay, this can't be good. (laughs) Like there's no way that this situation (inaudible) like this. It actually worked out well. Yeah, I overshare, a lot. (speaking very softly). (pause) He's in a tough spot too, though. He's doing a, I guess, post doc for a year, something, here. Next year, teaching. He's a preceptor in [inaudible] and he hasn't, he has to finish his dissertation by August 3rd. Vacation (not sure) Hasn't gotten comments on his last chapter, of course and frantically revising. So, yeesh. (long pause)
[00:15:21 ] (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Is there sort of a blank or ?
CLIENT: Um, kind of. I was talking with James last night and one of the things that I said was that I'm not very good, I can't quite tell when I'm actually not sad and when I'm just not letting myself be sad. Like I don't, I really don't know. And I don't know what to do with that.
THERAPIST: Are you saying in part that you're uncertain about that now?
CLIENT: Yeah. But, you know. (pause) I feel, I mean, I feel more in control of my life than I have in a long time. Like just today and in the last couple of days. Actually, as I was walking here from the bus stop, I had a call from one of the temp agencies that I had applied to saying would you like to talk about a couple of positions that she had open. So that's great. (pause) But I worry that, in the same way, that I kind of sabotage good relationships by saying this can't be right, like I worry that I'm going to sabotage my good days by saying that this can't actually be right.(laughs) Like this, (pause) I don't know. Yeah. Also, and now that I scrutinize this, this is weird, I feel like I'm boring when I show up here and I'm in a good mood. (laughs) I worry about that.
THERAPIST: [00:18:23 ] I see. (pause) Oh gosh, I wish it was miserable so it would be more entertaining for me.
CLIENT: (laughs) Exactly. Once I scrutinize it, it seems weird.
THERAPIST: No, yeah. I see it. Um. (pause) Do you have any other thoughts about that?
CLIENT: It's just that I don't know what to do now. I don't know what to talk about. I don't know what (trails off)
THERAPIST: Is that the things that come to mind seem sort of happy or irrelevant.
CLIENT: Not irrelevant, yeah, not happy, it's just a work day. Normal. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, there is good being repetitive. And we're definitely being repetitive. That' a (inaudible). I would say whatever comes to mind even if it's irrelevant.
CLIENT: I mean, I basically have been saying what comes to mind.
THERAPIST: Okay, all right. It's not like you have a whole flood of thoughts that you're editing (inaudible) comments (inaudible) like this is the good stuff (inaudible)
CLIENT: Or seems less relevant (inaudible). (pause) Yeah, like I had to figure out, things like I have to figure out how to report my time because I realize that you can only report the time and for the week that is currently happening. You can't say well, I worked (inaudible) hours last week.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because that, the last on-campus job, I sent my hours to the secretary and he entered them and that's fine. So, I felt like it was really important that I get permission from the administration guy to enter last week's hours under this week's (inaudible) Is that okay? He's like, yes, yes, it's okay. But of course, I lost the sheet that they gave me that told me exactly how to do it. Yeah, they're on a Thursday to Thursday schedule which I find bizarre.
THERAPIST: Like a week is Thursday to Thursday?
CLIENT: Yeah, like you have to report your hours for the week by Thursday. Presumably for paychecks to go out on Friday or something like that. (pause) (inaudible) this weekend (inaudible).
THERAPIST: While I'm thinking about it then, are you around on Monday?
CLIENT: I'm not around on Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I didn't know whether you want to reschedule or just have it two days a week. I'm kind of neutral.
THERAPIST: It's up to you. I have time on Friday midday if you like.
CLIENT: Why don't we just, reschedule if that's okay. I feel like three days in a row are really (inaudible) (laughs) Again, as soon as I say it out loud, it makes me less (inaudible)
THERAPIST: [00:22:39] I think you're really self-conscious.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But I'm really good at acting like I'm not self-conscious. (laughs)
THERAPIST: But yeah, I guess you're sort of tracking yourself very closely.
CLIENT: Hmm. Yeah, I like to
THERAPIST: And that way. (Client starts to speak) Go ahead.
CLIENT: Do most people not? I guess it's probably not really a fair question to ask.
THERAPIST: See like that. (laughs)
CLIENT: Yes. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:23:37 ] that don't (pause) and for good reasons, I imagine you're worried about messing something up. Maybe for me, but probably more for you. In other words, like that you'll say something that will have some bad repercussions for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I mean, this is why, or I imagine this is why I start re-analyzing conversations in which I'm not self-conscious. That was a bad idea. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Yeah. I think you worry about this spontaneity or (inaudible) spontaneity, um, some sort of (inaudible) that comes out of you that shouldn't have.
CLIENT: (pause) I worry that I'm going to hurt people or that I ought to make people hate me. (inaudible) (pause) It took me a long time to get to the point where I was comfortable with the image that I present. I feel like I don't know whether this is a normal thing for children, but I certainly always felt as a child as though I was both very self-conscious and completely uncapable of controlling what I actually said. (laughs) So it was like I was constantly fucking it up.
THERAPIST: Like how so? What did you say?
CLIENT: Um, I just would get too excited or too emotionally invested in things. Or I would cry too easily. I cried a lot. Or, you know, have ideas that the general opinion of my peers was that they were pretty stupid. I felt embarrassed about (inaudible).
THERAPIST: [00:26:39 ] I'm sorry, had ideas
CLIENT: Or like, when we would say, oh we should do this.
THERAPIST: People would think (overtalk)
CLIENT: I don't care about that. That's a terrible idea. (pause) You know, in part, I realize that I also (inaudible) children of social gaffs. You let things go. God, there was a girl in my high school, you know, I hadn't been at that school since kindergarten but probably 40 percent of the class had. And there was one girl who was very sweet, not very intelligent, but not, but you know capable, and was kind of part of the popular crowd or whatever. And apparently like she had crapped in her pants once when she was in 2nd grade and people were still talking about that in 12th grade. I was like, seriously guys? This is why (inaudible) change schools. This is why I think everybody should change schools in high school. Get the fuck out of there. Meet new people who are not going to remember the embarrassing things you did when you were like, did not have control over your body. (laughs) (pause)
CLIENT: [00:28:23 ] Being a child sucks. I don't understand why anybody, like that whole Victorian-esque romanticism of the innocence of childhood. I'm like have you met any children? They are horrible creatures (laughter). Like I was both really bullied but I also participated in bullying a couple of kids. Because I was fucking terrified and, I mean a year or two I got in touch through Facebook with one of those girls, the main one, and apologized to her. I said "Look (inaudible) really not right. I'm really sorry. She (inaudible) And also affirmed my remembering that our grade school was pretty fucked up. It was a lot of, it was a small school (inaudible) lot of rich kids. And there was just no understanding on the part of the faculty members, that it basically is Lord of the Flies. Like there's no understanding that, you know. Somebody took a stuffed animal that I had once and hung it by the neck from a door and nobody said anything. None of the teachers intervened, do you really not see that? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right, and these are teachers.
CLIENT: Yeah, I find it really easy to forgive my fellow students. I find it very difficult to forgive my teachers (pause) Yeah. (pause). You know, I can kind of forgive myself for the things I did as a child but it's hard. You know (inaudible) I'm not that person anymore. What if this were another child?
THERAPIST: Part of it, in some situations more than others, I think sometimes including this one, you very much feel that sense of danger under scrutiny that you felt as a kid.
CLIENT: Yeah, I find very hard to tell you the things that I did as a kid that I felt bad about. Like I really don't want to do that. (laughs) (long pause)
THERAPIST: [00:31:21] How come? Because I judge you so harshly or?
CLIENT: (inaudible) You know, it's like who I was, but it's also still me.
THERAPIST: Somebody in here has been really quite judgmental.
CLIENT: (laughs) clearly. Yeah. (long pause) I'm working on it. (laughs) I am. (pause) I guess I don't, I would just really find it hard to process (inaudible) the thing that I have done I'm not proud of are not necessarily representative of me as a whole. But like, I'm not always the person I am at my worst. That might not be a (inaudible) (long pause)
CLIENT: [00:34:22] I also feel like, I don't know. As soon as I start talking about my childhood, I feel like I'm waving a red flag hoping that you'll look somewhere else. (laughs) I guess I, on the one hand, I think I've said this before, one the hand, it's probably pretty important. On the other hand, it's not who I am. I don't know. I feel like yes, everybody had a shitty childhood, deal with it. (laughs) If that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Sort of. I mean, I don't think everybody had a shitty childhood. Some people who wind up in therapy didn't have a shitty childhood. I don't mean that, overwhelming struggles and difficulties in everybody's childhood, but
CLIENT: I wonder?
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But yeah, I mean.
THERAPIST: Like, you say you wonder. You mean, you think actually everybody did have a shitty childhood.
CLIENT: I mean, I wonder whether, I feel like, just like growing up is in itself pretty intensely traumatic.
THERAPIST: Oh, I would agree with that.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it, in that sense. (laughs)
THERAPIST: [00:35:55 ] Yeah, no, I guess that's what I (unintelligible), everybody has very overwhelming things happen as a kid. (pause) But what you're saying is (pause) I guess you're worried about being identified with yourself as a kid. Like, being mistaken for that same person you were then. Is that what you mean?
CLIENT: Um, I guess I'm more, I mean that it's, (pause) it's very tempting for me to kind of have a pity party and I don't know if that's very useful. It's easy for me to feel wronged. But like, oh well, (pause) you know, I mean, I go back and forth. When I was in the hospital, I had this terrible psychiatrist that wanted to put me on Paxil and told me that my crisis point was that, 'Well, there's an E.R. right down the road. (laughs) And I about I think about the 3rd or 4th time that I was repeating how bad this guy was, in my dad's presence, I can't remember whether I was still in the hospital or it was in the week or two I got out. He was like, "You know, I don't think that's really the best thing for you to be focusing on or the healthiest thing for you to be focusing on." He's was kind of just like, "Let it go." And I was like, "No!" (laughs) No, I'm not letting this go! So, what am I looking for, um, (pause)
THERAPIST: [00:38:35 ]Yeah, I think you're premeditating a lot. (laughs) And I think you are sort of worried about where you'll find yourself if you kind of head down any of these alternative paths of talking about this or that. Probably partly (inaudible) how I would judge it or what I would make of you from it and also to some extent, (pause) even if it did feel good to talk about it or something good did come out of it, then you would then go after yourself for what you had said.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just don't feel so good about myself after I've been complaining. You know, it doesn't, I feel like I'm (inaudible) to make somehow.
THERAPIST: Like you're in kind of a mine field here, I think. And well, I could sort of go that way but you know, that could blow in my face. I could sort of go that way, but that could blow up in my face. I think that's kind of what you're, I guess (inaudible) sort of feel constricted by.
CLIENT: Yeah. (tentatively) (pause) Yeah, I don't know how to turn off that (inaudible) to manage or to, (pause) I'd be trying to seek out every possible road (not sure).
THERAPIST: [00:41:00 ] I suspect that you also, (inaudible) how you use it in here is that, I could imagine you'd feel, you are pretty scrutinized, but like, we're both probably look carefully at what you said.
CLIENT: Yes. (overtalk) Although that kind of weights what I find, feel good about talking about in different directions than with other people. So it's not, most of the time, it's not so much that I want to, (pause) it's not so much that I want to seem like a good person, as that I want to seem like a compliant patient. If that makes sense. (laughs) I'm helpful. And I recognize that I'm not really the person who should be deciding what is helpful. But I always think I know better than people (laughs). So it's hard for me to turn that off. And I also do want to be seen like a good person. I can't turn that off. Or I have not been able to. (pause) And I'm going to leave and then I'm going to be thinking about this conversation and I don't want to put myself in a situation where I'm going to be beating myself up about this later. Not that I can really necessarily predict what I'm going to beat myself up about, but. (inaudible) I do a thing where I rehearse conversations or more often like rehash conversations only I actually mouth the words out loud as I'm walking down the street. (laughs) I CAN make myself talk (inaudible through laughter) it's a little embarrassing. But the nice thing about living here is that there are plenty of people who actually do talk to themselves. People notice less. (pause)
THERAPIST: [00:44:04] I guess it's also a way, all this, of keeping me out.
CLIENT: Yeah. I wish it were not. I try for it not to be. But yes.
THERAPIST: My precious (unintelligible) mixed feelings on that part.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Talking about.
CLIENT: (long pause) Yeah. It's like every time I think I'm comfortable enough with somebody that they can know anything about me, and that will be okay, I realize that if I look at it closely enough, (inaudible) whole thing, but that is not actually the case.
THERAPIST: Well, I'm sure part of it, I mean one thing it seems to me that is (inaudible) that we're finding out as we talk is that it's often things you weren't quite aware of or weren't quite expecting or that are hurting you.
CLIENT: How do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well, like you know, it's becoming clearer that even though it seemed (inaudible — saying some names?) seem perfectly reasonable in your conversations with him, that there were a number of hurtful things going on. Not that either of you were (inaudible) was going on or the fact that ANY way would have been what you would want or meant. But that was what was happening. Then it's sort of like (pause), uncertain dangers about being closer to people.
CLIENT: Hmmm.
THERAPIST: [00:46:34 ] (unintelligible)
CLIENT: I think that's a factor. I mean, the way I think about it is more, I am probably perhaps the person who knows myself best. And I really, really dislike myself. And when I like myself it's when I only pick certain pieces of myself into consideration and sort of shut out the rest. So it's hard for me not to think that anybody who actually knew me as well as I know myself would hate me. I just, yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop. So we'll talk more on Wednesday.
[End of file]
END TRANSCRIPT
