Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(silence) [00:02:32]
THERAPIST: Hi, c'mon in.
CLIENT 1 (male): Hi. We're on time today.
CLIENT 2 (female): Hi.
CLIENT 1: Nice Day.
CLIENT 2: It is?
CLIENT 1: Going to be really hot which kind of sucks for us because we work on the third floor of a mill lifting things. There's no air conditioning. It's alright. If it's not too cold up there it's too hot, so whatever. Sometimes it's cool but not usually in the summer. You want to go? Start -
CLIENT 2: I don't know what to say. I don't know if much has happened since we last saw you. [00:03:33]
CLIENT 1: (sigh) I don't know. I think the biggest source of stress in our lives which is a major obstacle, or maybe even precipitated a lot of the problems we've been talking about in here, is the money stuff. It's just constant. It's ongoing. We're in a hole. We feel like we can't dig out of it. I very often think about the inertia or trajectory of my life and how I feel like if you're in a positive trajectory things keep getting better and easier; but if you find yourself in a negative trajectory financially it's like you just keep on getting further and further. You know, whatever, it's part of our natural discourse now. Just the concept of viewing it from one side of the equation or the other side and, notwithstanding the money that I eventually have coming towards me or the money Jessica eventually has coming towards her, her inheritance, just left to our own devices, I feel like we're really on the almost downward spiral of things. Which has born a bunch of different things. I don't know. I'm just going to make a general statement about this kind of stuff, because I think it's something we need to talk about; because if we don't talk about it we're not going to be united or on a firm footing to be able to do anything about it. But anyway, I think it comes from a lot of different things. [00:05:07]
I mean when we first got together we went into the bank. I realize it was a different economy then and they were giving loans to anybody. Anyway, I got a small loan pretty much when we first started dating so we could move into our first apartment together and we paid it back without a problem. I don't know how much support we were getting from home at the time. I don't think I was getting any. We were dealing drugs together. That was a long time ago. The point is we just had, this is like over 10 years ago but that's not really the point, I just feel like we have all these debts and we can't even work enough to break even, let alone cover these debts and we don't even know what some of them are. [00:05:56]
CLIENT 2: Well, we could start to break even by not spending money on frivolous things.
CLIENT 1: Frivolous things. I know.
THERAPIST: So are these debts you accumulated over time because your expenses were outstripping your income, basically?
CLIENT 1: Right.
CLIENT 2: It's like even when we moved out of our apartment in Virginia and I switched the water bill over when we moved out, or our electric bill or something, I don't think they switched it, so now I owe money for some extra time.
CLIENT 1: There are all these different ways in which I feel, here's the thing, and it's made all the worse by that I feel like, for example, if you have no money in your account and you're responsible and you aren't keeping track of it and, like I can't tell you, it must be thousands of dollars in fees that we've gotten in the last 10 years. Because you're broke.
CLIENT 2: Mostly from this one bank.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, right. You're broke, right? You lost your line of credit
THERAPIST: I'm so sorry about that.
CLIENT 1: It's OK. You lost your line of credit because you don't have $300 whatever-they-call-it.
CLIENT 2: No, it's because they switched banks and they had a different policy. [00:07:11]
CLIENT 1: That's not the point. The point is we didn't have that $300 safety net or whatever it is. Right? That's not even the point. It's like you're broke and then you get charged a $35 fee, so it's like the very people who are most in the hole get - look, there have been like six $35 fees because I bought a candy bar over the weekend, you know?
CLIENT 2: Yeah, they charge the most expensive thing first. They take that out first so that you're more likely to overdraft with the small things.
CLIENT 1: All I'm saying is that - or like this water bill thing, there's a certain element of it where these corporations - I'm not trying to feel bad for myself but I'm just trying to explain the situation - it's like not only do I feel like we are irresponsible but I feel like the system, as it stands, sort of makes it that much harder. It's like if only I had that positive inertia, then I wouldn't have an overdrawn account and I wouldn't have these charges. It just goes on and on and on. [00:08:14]
The thing that is really hanging over our heads in the wake of my mom's death, more recently in that letter you read, by like he hadn't sent a check yet. He will. He says he wants to send it to me and then I'm supposed to make one up to you.
CLIENT 2: It'll come.
CLIENT 1: It'll come. It will come.
THERAPIST: I gave you an updated statement.
CLIENT 1: We got it. Yeah, we got it. It's just like my step dad said one of the things he doesn't want to do, and I talked about this with my individual therapist, is like "I don't want to enable you anymore. I can stop enabling this guy." Right? This was his statement about me, okay? So it makes me confront the fact that my mother and everything up until this point - I have been enabled, and now it's like they just pull money out from under me. But the fact is in two months when he said he's not paying for anymore of our stuff, I don't think he begins to understand how royally fucked we are.
CLIENT 2: Well he said, "In your new job I'm sure you'll make more money".
CLIENT 1: I'm going to.
CLIENT 2: And if he is paying for stuff for the next two months that means all the money we make will basically be safe - I mean we can save it. [00:09:28]
CLIENT 1: And I want to be optimistic and everything just like (sigh) the simplest things like getting paperwork together and making sure I handle stuff, we just can't seem to do it. Like I haven't done our taxes yet, you know?
THERAPIST: Well, what happens? Do you guys think "Oh, we'll do them today"? Is there a plan to do them and it's not executed, or do you not make the plan, or where does the process break down?
CLIENT 2: A lot of times the plan is not executed, but we don't have a big plan but we'll just do them tomorrow - and then we don't. I wish we had two computers, because when I want to do something on the computer that's important, so we won't be watching shows so I'll have my computer time, but then I feel like I have to do "just that"; whereas if it was my own computer I could browse a little bit and get your work done - check your e-mail and get your stuff done. [00:10:26]
CLIENT 1: One of the real "ball-busters" in this whole thing is we gave my mom what would be our second computer last summer.
CLIENT 2: I didn't want you to.
CLIENT 1: I did because she didn't have a computer. She was still working off an ancient machine, you know what I mean? I was like "here is [a notebook]"; [00:10:47] don't have to get a fancy new computer - just deal with the first transitional - like here's one. Try it out - you might like it. And, of course, they did. Then my mom went and bought a brand new Macbook Pro, and now I'm like "can I please have this computer back?"
CLIENT 2: And then they're like "we don't know how to take all our files off it." (laughs) (overlapping voices) ["Can you do that for me?"] (ph?) [00:11:04] Now his stepdad has two computers - including ours. (overlapping voices)
CLIENT 1: It's all this frustration with this fucking thing where it's like as soon as this guy knocks off we can buy four computers - sorry.
CLIENT 2: He just doesn't need two computers; he doesn't even know how to work them.
CLIENT 1: No but the thing is - this is such a detail - he has all these files upstairs on our old computer, and he has my mom's computer . . .
CLIENT 2: They're all Word documents and pictures, so we can get them off.
CLIENT 1: I know, I know, Jessica, I know.
CLIENT 2: Sorry.
CLIENT 1: No, it's OK. I share your frustration. It's just like (sigh) - it's not like we can go on the Mac. We have no credit. I don't even know what our credit score is. It's got to be . . .
CLIENT 2: It doesn't matter. We're not going to buy anything with credit.
CLIENT 1: I know, but like that's the point. It's so bad - I don't even know how it's rated, but we're like 400-and-something.
CLIENT 2: I don't know - it doesn't matter.
CLIENT 1: It's got to be that low.
CLIENT 2: We're not going to be able to use credit for anything.
CLIENT 1: I understand that.
THERAPIST: Do you have a lot of debt now?
CLIENT 2: (ph?) [00:12:02]
CLIENT 1: Yeah, but we have - like auto insurance. It's like this constantly happens. Like yesterday, last night, I was like "OK, what about auto insurance?" and I went like "Oh, shit". It's like we don't want to be driving without insurance right now. (pause) This isn't the kind of thing where you're obligated to call the DMV on us, are you? (chuckles) I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding.
THERAPIST: You could have told me that you killed someone and I'm not obligated.
(overlapping voices) [00:12:32]
THERAPIST: . . . someone and you identify, you just say "I want to kill someone." That's not - you need to identify - that might be - it seems like you're actually kind of serious about it, then I would have to do something. That's about it. I'm not calling the DMV on you. (laughs)
CLIENT 1: I didn't think so. I was being facetious.
THERAPIST: No, I know, but you know what? I actually think it also speaks to a particular kind of relationship that you have, I think for both of you, to authority - this feeling like you can't be your own authorities on your life and you're sort of needing to evade or answer to authorities, both at the same time, and I think it causes a lot of anxiety and angst in your life. [00:13:08]
CLIENT 1: I mean, totally. I'm going crazy (pause) (sigh) and it creates crisis. I'm just going to stay in crisis constantly. I mean, really. I mean, or the crisis exists but I'm like "Oh my God, I can't deal with that", so I'm just going to ignore it, which makes it even worse.
CLIENT 2: I would like to have some money in the bank so when somebody calls me or they call my dad's house I'm like you are not [inaudible]. [00:13:39] And I avoid the calls because I don't have any money to pay them, and they always insist on a little payment on the Visa. I would like to be able to have money in my account that I don't answer all my calls. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: So what are your thoughts about what you can do toward that end? [00:13:59]
CLIENT 2: We have ideas of how to make money. We have things to sell.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, OK, a new job [because our job is ending.] (ph?) [00:14:14] I mean she makes $10 an hour . . .
CLIENT 2: It's the same amount I made eight years ago. (overlapping voices)
CLIENT 1: Less - it was $10.50 - $10. I make $15 an hour. I got paid $25 - $24.50 an hour - when I was down in Virginia. I'm totally undervalued. We both have college degrees. I mean it's just like . . .
CLIENT 2: Well anyway, we're going to change jobs.
CLIENT 1: I know.
CLIENT 2: But in the meantime, we could still save better than we do.
CLIENT 1: Of course. [00:14:42]
THERAPIST: What do you feel like you guys spent on that you could save?
CLIENT 1: Oh, I just buy drugs - it's stupid.
CLIENT 2: It's expensive.
CLIENT 1: It's got to stop, and you know, it's like I'm doing well now so I'm going to stay on that trajectory. I haven't had an appointment with my damn addiction psychiatrist. I was avoiding it two weeks ago and rescheduling with her because I was going to test positive on my test - on my screening - so it's like I don't want to do that. So it's not a good . . .
CLIENT 2: But you were going to see her this week.
CLIENT 1: I was going to tell her I was using, you know, but I'd really like to tell her I was using - but be clean on my urine screen 'cause it's like - it's disingenuous. I don't know. In the last couple months I've had bad things go on with that, and I can dole out responsibility to being upset about Jessica's infidelity and all this other stress I have in my life; and it's just stupid because what I'm doing just doesn't make anything better. You're dealing with things that are crises or whatever, then you're ignoring them even though they exist. But then if you're using drugs it's like this other way where you're actually exacerbating the problem. I know the whole story. When we were here last time I was asked pretty point blank about what I could do - what I could do - to not use.
CLIENT 2: I think we'd save a lot of money just by quitting smoking. [00:16:18]
CLIENT 1: I know, I've got to quit smoking. I mean I spent ten bucks this morning; I'll spend $10 tomorrow; I'll spend $10 the day after that.
CLIENT 2: That's $300 a month.
THERAPIST: That's how much you spend on . . .
CLIENT 1: Real easy, at least.
CLIENT 2: Not if you're in Virginia, but here. (chuckles) [It's like your aunts have forced you to there] (ph) [00:16:35] So just go and quit smoking.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, there's this dude that has some kind of hypnotism thing and it apparently works. It's $65 [ ]. (ph?) [00:16:45]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like - and I'm not minimizing your other problems by any means - but it sounds like the fact that you have someone who pays for stuff that are really positive in your life - like therapy - so those are incentivized at some level. That's awesome. I'm not saying that this . . .
CLIENT 2: No, that is very fortunate.
CLIENT 1: I mean I get that.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying "you guys - oh, why aren't you grateful?" I'm not saying that, but I'm just saying, I guess in terms of looking at it in terms of . . .
CLIENT 2: . . . that here's the chance to actually try to save money.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and I understand what you're saying. You get in a negative cycle and you keep on that. There's some sort of inherent reality to that. I think that that's actually true. I mean, so it just sort of speaks to all the extra energy you guys will need to expend to sort of surmount that hurdle - and I'm not minimizing it. [00:17:36]
CLIENT 1: And, Jessica, I only brought it up - well I guess I brought it up not for a year or something like that - but I brought it up maybe this morning. I went outside; it was really nice out. I woke up early this morning and I went outside and it was beautiful out and, I don't know, there was this summer camp I worked at . . .
CLIENT 2: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT 1: . . . for years, right? It's this island and it's beautiful. It's like about an hour from [where we are now] [00:18:07] (ph?)(overlapping voices)
CLIENT 2: Yeah, that sounds great but it won't work if we have jobs and then we have to quit them to go work there.
CLIENT 1: I get that.
CLIENT 2: OK
CLIENT 1: The point is it's June, July and August, right? These kids stay for eight to nine weeks and it's like there's something like a three to one ratio - campers to counselors - so it's really a cool place. There are like 100 campers - that's it. That's the way it's been since 1950 or something. So you get history of this really really cool place. I started when I was in high school and I was a counselor there through my sophomore year in college I guess. Anyway. We could go there and I'd be an assistant director and Jessica would have some other position, whatever Scott and his wife would want to assign us to. He's the owner and the director of the camp. And they totally put us up and feed us and we have to have a very regimented lifestyle. We have to be up at seven every morning but it's like . . . [00:19:12]
CLIENT 2: So it's like you'd use it kind of like rehab . . .
CLIENT 1: But the thing is it's something that I've done very successfully in the past. I couldn't smoke when I was there, so all these things that would be good for our lives anyway - we'd be fending for ourselves and wouldn't have to have shit from our family and at the end of the day we'd have like . . .
CLIENT 2: I think the amount of money you said was way too low.
CLIENT 1: No, I don't think so.
CLIENT 2: Because you're paying for room and board.
CLIENT 1: No, I got $5,000 when I was a sophomore in college.
CLIENT 2: As a counselor?
CLIENT 1: As a counselor. The point is, at the other end of it, I think we'd have like fifteen grand at the end of August to then like move on with our lives. And I'm just throwing it out there, dude, cause I'm just looking for solutions. The point is you get paid and you don't have to spend anything on your life while you're there.
CLIENT 2: And that'd be enough to pay off the . . .
CLIENT 1: You stay on an island. There's no electricity or running water. You go for a swim every morning. Every morning you jump in the lake and that's how you wake up. [00:20:12]
CLIENT 2: Cold with water?
CLIENT 1: Well, you get over it, you know? At one point, in the middle of the summer, there might only be a third of the number of campers that are actually in camp because everyone else is off doing trips - like I'm talking 10-day hiking trips in the Mountains or kayaking down the river and that kind of stuff - and you can be a trip counselor.
CLIENT 2: I can do that.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, it's awesome. You go with another counselor and eight kids and you're hiking the Mountains for five days. You've got to plan everything, have all your supplies to feed the kids, and I could do this when I was seventeen.
THERAPIST: I was going to say - because you definitely need some skills for that.
CLIENT 1: But I did it when I was 17.
CLIENT 2: I did that at my summer camp, too, but we'd go on five-day trips, but the campers had to carry their own food.
CLIENT 1: Of course. (laughter)
THERAPIST: I was going to say I don't want to carry it all. [00:21:15]
CLIENT 1: You get trained in first aid and you get licensed as a trip leader in the State or whatever. They've got like almost two weeks of training at the beginning where you just hang out at the camp before the kids get there. We wouldn't have to be in a tent - we're married. There are always at least one or two couples like that that are at the camp every year who are sort of the directors' go-to people because they're adults, not twenty-year-olds. And I'm not saying this is the solution for us right now.
CLIENT 2: No, that sounds good, but it's just like "how can we do it?"
CLIENT 1: We can't get a lease right now because we don't have enough money to do it. The point is, any other time that we've been at one of these junctures or crossroads in our life - like "what the fuck are we doing?" It's been like not the right time of year and we haven't been in the right geographic place. The fact is at the end of April and May is when he hires people to work there.
CLIENT 2: Well, why don't you call him then? Now that you say it, if it's at the end of April or end of May then we would have a couple of months to where we need to find jobs. [00:22:28]
CLIENT 1: Here's the point - we just don't have a plan. We don't have something that's concrete that's going to be like "here's what we are doing and here's how we are going to do it".
CLIENT 2: But if you did maybe he would . . .
CLIENT 1: Of course. That's what he wants. My God. You can go over and tutor. I can go work for this guy at this place for like a month. It's not that far away. I think the campers arrive like last week in May - maybe the first week in June - like June 12th.
CLIENT 2: Well you said there were two weeks training.
CLIENT 1: Yeah. June 12th or something like that. This is not the solution. I just wanted to take the time out in this time right here where we can just be honest with each other - not honest with each other - just have open time to talk about stuff. I just want to be clear-eyed. I cannot go there being like "yeah, I'm just coming off drugs". That's not what this place is about. But at the same time, we can take two months and actually know we had to quit smoking because we needed to be at this camp with these kids on this date. Do you think Jim wouldn't cover if he knew we were doing this? He would be like "OK, I agree to cover your rent for April and May". That's all we need actually. That's what we already agreed to do. "We didn't have to ask him if that's what he's doing." Maybe I'm enabling myself even more.
THERAPIST: Why do you say that?
CLIENT 1: Well, no, I'm not. (overlapping voices) [00:24:19] The point is he'd be like OK, we need to ask him for more money to tide us over until this thing happens. I mean one of the big authorities we deal with is our families. I think more directly with me, and maybe slightly more indirectly with you.
CLIENT 2: Well, I don't like to ask them for money because then I do feel like you have to answer to them.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, right. And it's a big complaint I've always said it's like I always have to ask my family for money and Jessica doesn't, but there's no reason why you should. And plus I think your dad is more inclined to say "no" than my mother ever was.
CLIENT 2: It's just because he has four kids and I'm in my thirties. I shouldn't be dependent. (chuckles)
CLIENT 1: Totally. And I'm in my thirties too; I shouldn't be dependent either. But the point, is how much would our folks like it to know that we were going for three months and they wouldn't have to worry about us? And they knew that we wouldn't be spending money. [00:25:18]
CLIENT 2: Yeah, except for we would still have to make payments on things.
CLIENT 1: Well, yeah.
CLIENT 2: They'd do direct deposit into our account. We could set that up.
CLIENT 1: Well, yeah, every two weeks you do. You get a check. I didn't even cash them until August the last times I was working there. You literally have no need for any money. I mean that's not entirely true. You have days off.
CLIENT 2: Yeah, that you want to spend a little money in town or something.
CLIENT 1: We would need to go out to dinner like once every couple of weeks. I mean, you just go too crazy at the silence. But I think we'd probably be afforded a cabin on the mainland because we're married and I just know the dynamic there. I mean if he's like "Well, yeah, you can do it but you have to be in a cabin with these kids", I'm not taking on four 4th to 9th graders - four 8th graders in a cabin. (Client 1 &amp; 2 chuckling) I'm married; I'm not doing that.
CLIENT 2: Well, just talk to him.
CLIENT 1: Well that's the thing, I need to communicate with him to find out if it's even an option. This is not the end-all solution; but if you don't do that, what the fuck are we going to do? Because I have a feeling Jim's not fucking around.
CLIENT 2: Right. So let's find out if we can do that. I'm down.
CLIENT 1: But you said this morning that you thought it would be escapist.
CLIENT 2: I was half asleep.
CLIENT 1: But, no, is this escapism? Are we avoiding what we should be doing, which is like getting jobs and getting up at seven in the morning on our own accord? [00:26:52]
CLIENT 2: But it sounds like it would also like therapy/rehabilitation, too - not that you would use them like that.
CLIENT 1: Can we not go into that?
CLIENT 2: Well I know. I'm just saying - to have three months of steady living.
CLIENT 1: It's just regimented. It's just regimented. For me it's very familiar. I know you - you'd plug right into the "summer camp" thing. (pause) You know.
CLIENT 2: Yeah, I know, I mean if I can't smoke I don't . . .(overlapping voices) [00:27:20]
CLIENT 1: Because we're older we'd be in positions of authority there. It would actually feel like I was being responsible for stuff, not just - or I could call and he'd be like "sorry I don't really have - if you could be just a counselor sure, I'd plug you in.
CLIENT 2: Yeah, he might already have somebody.
CLIENT 1: Right, but I don't have any positions like that, you know.
THERAPIST: He might know people who would, though, if he didn't.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, that's the thing is we have this amazing network of people who could get us jobs and stuff but we don't tap into it - and mainly because I'm afraid I'm going to fail. And I don't want to fail on the recommendation from a friend or a family member or a friend of my family's or something like that.
THERAPIST: How would you fail?
CLIENT 1: Just by not getting up in the morning - by not performing well enough, you know? Or maybe it's like I've just been, you know, aside from my intermittent drug use which I'm on medication for - it's like I was using last week, OK, but you wouldn't know it today because I've got this medication that I take and it's a replacement therapy. I'm not high, but I don't have any physical withdrawal.
CLIENT 2: To me that's an enabling drug.
CLIENT 1: It's an enabling drug.
CLIENT 2: Because it means you can do heroin and then you have that [to fall back on]. (overlapping voices)(ph?) [00:28:40]
CLIENT 1: I feel like it's [Avoxin] [00:28:42](ph?) therapy is like it's kind of - well like, again, I'll step back and like "who am I kidding?" I was doing heroin three months earlier and I want to be a mentor kind of person to these kids? Maybe that's not a good idea for me because maybe I'm damaged goods and I shouldn't do that.
CLIENT 2: I think you're good when you're an authority to other people.
CLIENT 1: I know I'd just plug right into that place and be [][00:29:08] I just know it like the back of my hand.
THERAPIST: But your saying you're "damaged goods" kind of keeps with the negative trajectory.
CLIENT 1: I get that, but that doesn't mean that I don't feel that way.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean rather than feeling like you're truly trying to come up with some solutions.
CLIENT 1: [00:29:22] Just like I feel our marriage is damaged, you know? It's like this theme of feeling like I'm all [bruised] (ph?) [00:29:29] or something. My whole life - and I think you're whole life - you were National Honor Society; I was a State Championship. We both went to college. She went to NYU; I went to Temple. I graduate in 4 years, [maybe if you needed to drop out.] (ph?) But like the point is, at a certain point I feel like I fell from grace or something; and now I'm just a liability and I'm unworthy and it sucks.
CLIENT 2: Well I think it takes a lot longer to repair than it does to damage.(chuckles)
CLIENT 1: I don't know if that's true.
CLIENT 2: Well it's the same thing with breaking a bone. You can do that really quick.
THERAPIST: When he expresses his feelings, how do you feel?
CLIENT 2: Sometimes I feel, well I feel more optimistic than he does a lot of times.
THERAPIST: In general?
CLIENT 2: But them sometimes I feel not like if in the past, at least, when he's talked about going I've just felt like it's not really possible so it's not going to happen. I guess I'm both ways, but now I feel differently. If it's possible . . .
CLIENT 1: Well it is possible, because the timing is just right.
CLIENT 2: Because every time in the past it was about having jobs and stuff that we couldn't just break off from . . .
CLIENT 1: . . . and leave. This job is ending now at the end of April so it's like a pretty good time.
THERAPIST: What do you feel, Jessica, when you hear Michael talk about these feelings about himself?
CLIENT 2: I don't want him to feel that way. I can see where he's coming from because I've felt the same way a bit. I don't want him to be on that downward spiral or like with a negative loop. (chuckles)
CLIENT 1: Feedback loop?
CLIENT 2: Feedback loop (chuckles) because it doesn't seem helpful. [00:31:37]
CLIENT 1: Then I feel like a lot of those feelings of crisis or brokenness and everything are what precipitated you cheating on me and that's OK - I get that.
THERAPIST: I think it's great that you guys are thinking about how to make a more positive future for yourself than you have in the past and how can you, in a sense, get control of your lives so that they just don't feel like you're objects of randomness.
CLIENT 2: After having a summer like that, it just seems like you don't have to go back to where you were before, you know?
CLIENT 1: It's a great reset. Can you imagine having three months where you have no real obligations outside this little microcosm and, at the end of it, you collect all the pay for three months - I mean I don't need to spend barely any of it . . .
CLIENT 2: We would have enough to get an apartment. [00:32:47]
(pause)
THERAPIST: The other reason I asked you that, Jessica, is I do feel like you guys talk to each other but I'm always struck by how not emotionally engaged you are with each other. Like in this case, Michael, it didn't seem like you were - and not that you would say this explicitly - but like "Hey, Jessica, I was talking about all these negative feelings about myself. Make me feel better. Say something nice to me that makes me feel better," or Jessica, I think it does make you feel bad to hear Michael talk about this. I'm glad you're talking about it, but you guys have a way of not engaging each other emotionally. I'm sure I can think of other examples for you, Jessica. I'm just talking about this specific example that you're not really talking to each other about how you're feeling. [00:33:48]
(pause)
CLIENT 1: When I start thinking about all these things we haven't dealt with, (sigh) (pause) I just don't feel like there's a way out and I just want to die - like I want to kill myself. Like lately I have been thinking about killing myself. Right after you told me you cheated on me I was thinking about that all the time and it was reactionary and it was silly and in some ways it was really shallow. But now it's like whenever it occurs to me I'm like "Oh, man, that's a good option," and I know it's not that - I'm not going to do that. I mean I hate to bring it out like "here's something even worse." [00:34:28]
CLIENT 2: Well when you bring up all the issues that we have it makes me nervous, too.
CLIENT 1: I know, I know. It's like both our heart rates get high and we start freaking out.
CLIENT 2: But we have each other.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, but we've always had each other and that didn't help.
THERAPIST: I don't actually know if you've always had each other. Being together is not having each other, and I guess that's one of the things - maybe it's a different of bringing it up - how can you really create a relationship where you actually really have each other? That when one of you is using it would be like "Wait a second, honey, that's not OK." Have each other for support, for guidance, when one of you is feeling bad to really be able to engage each other in that - or feeling good for that matter.
CLIENT1: I don't even feel like I can feel, like, joy anymore, which really sucks. The best I get is like contemplatively - is deep aesthetic appreciation. It's not joy. (sniggers) It's like "Oh, that's nice - babbling brook)." (chuckles) It's like I feel like cynical. I feel like I can turn anything into like existential dread, even something great. [00:35:59]
CLIENT2: Yeah, you do that. That's humorous sometimes to people. (both chuckle)
THERAPIST: I just said that before you sort of - you agreed. You thought - what were you thinking?
CLIENT2: About what?
THERAPIST: About sort of having each other; what it would mean to have each other.
CLIENT2: Well I think it's more like depending on each other. I don't think we felt like we can.
CLIENT1: Yeah, I don't feel like I can depend on you.
CLIENT2: Yeah, I haven't felt like I could depend on you either.
THERAPIST: Do you think that's a problem?
CLIENT2: Yeah.
CLIENT1: Of course.
(chuckling)
THERAPIST: I didn't mean to be patronizing. I want to know what you guys want.
CLIENT2: Yeah, I want to be able to depend on you.
CLIENT1: Well I love you very much.
CLIENT2: I know. [00:36:52]
(pause)
CLIENT1: I just want solutions - something that will actually work - that we can plan on that we know will work. I guess part of this whole feeling of (sigh) self doubt and everything it used to be I was automatically in the right situation, whether my family put me there or what have you. I was thinking this morning it's like half of being successful in school is showing up. I mean all you've got to do is just be in class, and that's pretty much what got me through the first two years of college. I was like OK I'll just be there. As long as I'm here I'm not stupid; I'm going to be OK. And it worked, you know? Now I feel like OK, I can show up but I'm showing up for the wrong thing entirely. I mean even the things I try to be successful at aren't good sometimes. That's why this camp thing has a lot of appeal to me because I feel like "OK, plug me in there". The only thing I can see as being a super big obstacle is cigarette smoking. [00:38:14]
CLIENT 2: You can go to the hypnotherapist.
CLIENT 1: I know, and hopefully that's a solution, but again that's the only thing I can see being like "Oh, shit, that's the big obstacle here".
CLIENT 2: I don't see that as too much of an obstacle . . .
CLIENT 1: Well, I'm just trying to be realistic about my life like there you're around kids; you cannot smoke. If you do, you get kicked out immediately. It's like whoever you are it doesn't matter. I got in trouble there for smoking in front of a kid.
CLIENT 2: When you were in high school?
CLIENT 1: Yeah, how old was I? I was a senior in high school. Me and this other counselor were taking a trip. It's this stupid trip where you hike. It's dumb, because it's like not even . . .
CLIENT 2: That ski club?
CLIENT 1: Yeah . . . vegetated. You come down the backside and it's beautiful there. But we were smoking cigarettes and this kid saw us and this whole big fucking thing. I didn't get kicked out.
CLIENT 2: But you were in high school? Now you're . . .
CLIENT 1: Well, the point is I have a history of being in trouble there smoking.
CLIENT 2: (laughs) So go to the hypnotherapist and have him . . . Yeah, I wouldn't have a problem quitting smoking. [00:39:23]
CLIENT 1: And I don't think you would. The point is we need to have situations where we're set up to be successful, and right now in life I don't see our lives . . .
CLIENT 2: Even if I get a job . . .
CLIENT 1: Yeah - even getting jobs I don't feel like we meet those needs.
THERAPIST: But before all this happened you guys did seem like you had a plan about each of your employment potentials.
CLIENT 1: Going to Vermont and everything. Yeah, until my stepdad totally shot all over it.
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm wondering is how much of it you can recreate elsewhere, how much of it was just unique to Vermont.
CLIENT 1: Oh, it's the health insurance thing we have here.
CLIENT 2: Right, so that should make it easier to recreate it here.
THERAPIST: So, Jessica, you were going to be training at something. [00:40:24]
CLIENT 1: Oh, I see what you mean. Do what we were going to do in Vermont, but here.
THERAPIST: Well, yeah. I'm just wondering. I guess I'm just tapping into the idea that you did have a plan . . .
CLIENT 1: But I don't think it was a good plan for me. Starting my business would have been stupid, I think hers is way more feasible.
CLIENT 2: My sister also suggested I could take a paralegal course just because my brother-in-law said I was like the best employee he ever had - one of - I don't know. He said I was really good at it.
CLIENT 1: That's the thing. I feel like when we do well at jobs we do exceptionally well. I mean, you know, there are ways in which I've worked in different jobs that I overall haven't done very well at. (overlapping voices)
CLIENT 2: But usually that had to do with showing up, right?
CLIENT 1: No, it's like just going above and beyond and just, you know, I feel like we have a lot to offer but - that's the thing - I don't feel appreciated, I don't feel like I'm doing what I need to - I mean all this stuff. All I know is like . . .
CLIENT 2: Maybe it's Jepardo (sp?)
CLIENT 1: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Maybe it's what?
CLIENT 2: Our boss. (chuckles)
CLIENT 1: All I know is that, I mean for example, he didn't get us our stuff for our taxes until Friday just because we asked him special.
CLIENT 2: Yeah, and he acted like it was a pain in the ass he had to go back to that . . . (overlapping voices)
THERAPIST: I don't want to discuss this, but at the moment like . . .
CLIENT 1: I asked him in January (inaudible at 00:41:45)
THERAPIST: You guys are really tough. First of all, it sounds like the job is ending and second of all as you're describing it's not a job that you're really going to be able to sort of create a comfortable life for yourselves in terms of the income.
CLIENT 2: Right, because that's how we are now.
CLIENT 1: But those are the kind of jobs that I'm considering and I think I need time. I keep saying over and over again, "I wish I could just have a little time to not worry about shit to think about what I wanted to do."
THERAPIST: But the bad news is the world's stuck in that.
CLIENT 1: But that's the cool thing about going to this camp. It would be awesome.
CLIENT 2: Yep.
THERAPIST: It would be, but you'd have a lot of responsibility. I'm not saying it wouldn't be good for you guys but I mean life never stands still. It sounds like the expenses would stand still, which sounds awesome, and that sounds like a great opportunity.
CLIENT 1: No, but it's really tranquil.
CLIENT 2: Yeah. (laughs)
CLIENT 1: No, it's awesome.
THERAPIST: I mean I hope it works. It does sound like a good plan and I hope it works out for you, but I guess, aside from that, you guys are very educated and you're very bright. So the question is, "How can we harness those resources so you can actually do something?" [00:42:56]
CLIENT 1: We do make a living successfully all over the place, right?
TH &amp; CLIENT 2: Yes. (laughs)
THERAPIST: With far less than college degrees, too.
CLIENT 2: Yeah.
CLIENT 1: It's when I'm doing the work ethic.
THERAPIST: Do you know who has the best health insurance in the State? The best union workers.
CLIENT 1: Of course.
THERAPIST: Union workers get everything - well I guess in some ways that seems obvious but boy, they do. A lot of them are very talented. They have high school diplomas. You often don't need more, and they actually do very well. They made a lot of money but they also have ridiculous benefits. I guess my point being that it's not like you guys lack the resources intellectually and so forth to do well; but yeah, there's a couple of problems you're having. One is that it's hard for you guys to hold yourselves accountable in a consistent way. It does seem like you do. It's not like you completely just don't care and just rack up debt til - who cares - but it's hard for you to be consistent about it.
(pause)
CLIENT 2: And that's probably due to the fact your mom was so enabling.
CLIENT 1: (sigh) Yeah, yeah. I guess.
THERAPIST: There has to be more than that because there are plenty of people with parents who just give them money, but they still will work.
CLIENT 2: Right. It's more about the way that we thought about the fact that she gave him money or something that maybe that meant even that's being responsible.
CLIENT 1: The thing that happened when I turned 25, we were were only like two years married I got a lot of money from a trust.
CLIENT 2: A trust or something.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, for my college or whatever. It was like the worst thing that could have possibly happened to me because I had no financial management skills at all. I just turned loose with this money. My mom was all fucked up; my stepdad wasn't paying attention. No one was paying attention, and I blew through it and ended up being in debt because of it, sort of. Does that make any sense?
THERAPIST: Did you blow through it on drugs?
CLIENT 1: No, not necessarily.
CLIENT 2: But you would buy gifts for Megan and . . .
CLIENT 1: Yeah, it's just [old stuff] (ph?) [00:45:01] I don't even want to talk about it.
CLIENT 2: Okay.
CLIENT 1: It's like they say people win the lottery and then they go into huge financial ruin because of it, which makes no sense, but there it is. (sigh) (pause) Anyway.
THERAPIST: You guys are talking about trying to create a future for yourselves and you're thinking about what could stand in your way of doing it, or maybe even also what has stood in your way so far from doing it.
CLIENT 1: I mean the single best thing I can do is not use drugs.
CLIENT 2: Well, yeah, I think a lot of the reason why we're not motivated probably has to do with our health, right? If you exercise more regularly you're going to have more energy and stuff like that.
CLIENT 1: It's this whole thing about inertia.
CLIENT 2: That's why the camp would be, too.
CLIENT 1: Yeah, you've got to have exercise.
CLIENT 2: And you'll eat well. [00:45:50]
CLIENT 1: Eat well. You know. Our schedule is like - I don't know how I did it - I used to stay up 'til like midnight or one in the morning and still wake up at seven. I could never do that now. As soon as campfire was over I'd be like "going to bed. See you guys later."
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today. I wish you good luck in finding out about these opportunities.
CLIENT 1: Should I look into the camp?
CLIENT 2: Yeah, and you should do it now if you're going to do it because it's not like you have to accept just the position available. Just find out because it will get filled. I doubt he's waiting 'til the last minute to find somebody to do that.
CLIENT 1: No, and I can call him right away.
THERAPIST: And also I'll see you guys next week at 10:10 at our regular time. Okay? Sound good? Okay. It was good to meet you guys. Good luck. Enjoy the day. [00:46:41]
END TRANSCRIPT
