TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
____________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client 0324-006, session two, 1970; client 0324-006, session two, October 20, 1970. Let me just say about the - I talked to James, and he said as far as he knows there's really, really no chance that anybody will find out anything. He will have someone who will be doing ratings. What will happen is that little segments of various tapes will be taken out, but it would be - it won't, first of all, it would never be anybody that you knew who would be doing the rating.


PATIENT: OK that's good. 


COUNSELOR: And second of all, there would be no identifying information. 


PATIENT: OK.


COUNSELOR: So they would just know this was a research, someone in James research. They would have - they will never see the names of the people involved. 


PATIENT: OK.


COUNSELOR: But he felt quite confident about being able to safeguard confidentiality. 


PATIENT: OK it's just that there are so many people that will know. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah I kind of thought like, "Wow, she knows many of these people out running around in the hallway."


PATIENT: Well I do. I mean I know at least by sight an awful lot of them, and I'm sure if I went to the social work meetings, which I usually don't go to, I'd know a lot more. 


COUNSELOR: I also wanted to say, I forget to mention this, and I don't know if it would have any impact on you but, I work for a different professor. So you - or I'd work on his project, so you may see me over in HD a fair amount. I have the [writing amount] (ph).


PATIENT: Oh, that's fine. 


COUNSELOR: And in case you're startled by that, that's why I'm there. 


PATIENT: Oh that's OK. 


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: OK I wanted to [find you] (ph) - I have a very vague idea of what I want to talk to you about, [stuff like that] (ph). And I guess I'm going to have to write down what I want to say to you before I come because I always end up like really not knowing where to begin, or the reasons for the things that have upset me. This week I used not (inaudible at 2:20). I've done very well at work, but I've done some very good work on therapy and stuff like that about Kyle and that situation. [2:31]


But once I get away for there, I know part of it was like that, I guess, part of it was that my boyfriend finally found a place to live, so he moved out. So that just, not that I even saw him that much, but just kind of going home to an empty house just kind of brought back to me like aren't you going to sit down and start making a new life for yourself. 


And start doing some constructive things now that you recovered from grievance, and at least I'm working, which I'm sure is what's keeping me sane. But this time last year I wasn't working, I was sleeping all the time. I wasn't doing anything, but it's the same kind of feeling of just being overwhelmed by everything I should be doing, and not really feeling like doing any of it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah so like it sounds like during the day, you can do some other things and kind of pull that off, but the minute your other duties are quite over for the day, those things are working just to come and get you whenever you're done.


PATIENT: Yeah I mean sometimes I really don't - part of it maybe that I've just been tired, which makes it easier for - harder for me to cope with forms of emotions and depressions and stuff. And like just going over - my boyfriend and I went to dinner at a mutual friend's house, and this has happened a lot before, it hasn't happened recently. And it was, if fact, it was the night I was here. I think it was the night. I was here last Wednesday, and it was Thursday night then, and I had just gone to a really, really fascinating class that I was very inspired about. [4:38]


After I've gone to work, and then I've gone to a class for three hours, and then we went to this friend's house for dinner. And I got there, and I felt really completely impotent in that, like I felt like I couldn't say a thing at dinner. Like I was this little girl that they brought along, and they could ask me how I was doing and that was it. And I had gone filled with this - I was going tell them all about this class, which was really an exciting thing to talk about, what went on. But they ended up talking about things that they had in common; politics, med school, and stuff like that, but I didn't and, or that I was not as informed as they were.


And it's just fantastic depression. It was like it was all I could do - I mean, it wasn't noticeable to them. To them I was just very quiet and maybe tired or something like that, but inside I was just like really in torment, and it was all I could do to just say anything at all.


COUNSELOR: It's like, it sounds like much more than feeling shut out, but that like you had nothing to contribute. And you were almost - it was almost like you felt like some kind of freak or pet that had been brought along, and like it really made you feel almost in another world.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And it was all you could do to keep from getting up and running is what I'm thinking.


PATIENT: Exactly, I mean, I really wanted to get up and run and, or else I felt like just an onlooker that - like I would do things like doing the dishes or helping out and being this nice little person that as long as I did all these things that I wouldn't be in the way, and then they wouldn't feel so bad about having me. [6:24]


COUNSELOR: Yeah like you could be unobtrusive and kind of helpful but inside you were, you were really like seething or ...


PATIENT: Yeah well the way that I could be helpful or wanted or valuable was not as myself and, I mean, I realize that I felt that many, many times before. But this is the first time in a long time that it's kind of come through so hard. 


COUNSELOR: The way I'm hearing it, and I need to check this out, is like it was something that you feel is coming from you, but you didn't feel shut out by them. You didn't feel that they were doing that to you. Is that right or was it ...?


PATIENT: It was probably a combination. I mean it was - it's like somehow my approach to them makes me be a person that really has nothing to contribute, and I act like a little girl that's sort of coming along. And as a result, their not likely to ask me interesting questions or what do you think about this or something like that. And to open my mouth and make an observation, which I did once in a while, is like - takes everything that I have. It's much more - it's much easier to shut up. 


Like I found this like - I used to, I was in groups, and we were in his class or in classes in college and stuff like that, and I would find the same thing. That like, I guess my first group that I was in here at Bevermann's I came in late and various things, and they decided that I wasn't really interested. It was just because I've gotten lost getting there, and so somebody made the observation that I sort of reminded them of a lost puppy. [8:15]


That I was - I guess I'd come in pigtails, and that I was putting on this act or something like that. I don't know, but anyway just kind of the way they said it. I couldn't speak the rest - oh, I know. I guess they said it after I've been there for a while and hadn't spoken because I'd been really too scared to speak. And they took it as meaning, "Well she's sitting over there just because she wants attention and that's why she's not talking." 


COUNSELOR: Like she - their saying she's playing waif and she wants our something or other. 


PATIENT: Yeah like I want their sympathy, and I want them to draw me out and stuff like that. And they - I want them to focus on me, which was the last thing in the world I wanted because it just really tore me apart when they did focus on me. Like I really wanted to act as an equal with them putting in my two bits like everybody else did. 


COUNSELOR: But like you couldn't - it sounds like you couldn't even, and you can't often, even say that. Say, "No that's not what I want. I want to be in, but I'm really afraid." 


PATIENT: Yeah I couldn't say that. I just, I just cut out or something. 


COUNSELOR: It makes you bring that farther (ph), it's part of...


PATIENT: I mean that's - it's my way of escaping is keeping quiet. And like, in fact, they would say, they would comment later on during parts of the group. Of course they thought I just wasn't interested in that group, and later on, you know, like I was really into everything that was going on. I'd be shaking my head, and really feeling strongly about everything that everybody said, but I wouldn't say anything. And then they forced the way through the meeting. This was later on, they'd say, "OK Katie, you've just", which is what they called me, "You've been shaking your head, and all this. I know you must be thinking something. What do you think?" [10:16] 


And then if I could get up the courage, I'd go into this long tirade about all sorts of things, but that would be the only way that I could speak. And then one time that happened, and I was really emotionally involved in a whole bunch of things. And I sort of started given this analogy that was, it was really a deep kind of thing, and it was a really powerful kind of thing. And like I had tried to kill myself the night before and that was sort of on my mind. And I didn't express it that way, but I was also involved in the group very intimately. And like I had a whole bunch of information, evidence and stuff like that, which I hope doesn't get anywhere. 


And so, and like I'd been very - I knew enough of the details. I begun to be very, very upset about it, and what'd provoked it was that there was this little rat at dinner that night that I was trying to save. It was in this little bag, and he was a baby and he was sort of struggling. And my - the roommates that I was staying with had wanted to kill him, and I said, "You just can't do that. He's just such a little thing, and he's so blind and so helpless and struggling so hard for life." And I kind of brought up the whole analogy of just all the potential for life, which Fred Hampton had, and which I think I had, and which this rat had in his own little way that was just being destroyed.


And something that people had said in that meeting had triggered it off. I mean I guess we were talking about the potential that was in us that had not been brought up. It was near one of the other meetings. And anyway I went into a long talk about this rat saying that I had tried to kill myself. [I said] (ph) a friend of mine had tried to kill himself before. And one of the other - after I finally got through, it was like once I started I had to keep going. One of the girls in the meeting said, "Like wow, like I sort of get the feeling you're saying that to say like look here you've had all these things going on, and nothing I can say can match it." They think I'm trying to put them all down, and so. [12:48]


COUNSELOR: That was how she felt. She couldn't match that. 


PATIENT: So that somehow if I do say what I feel, in either case, it's like I'm putting everybody done. That's the way it comes across.


COUNSELOR: Like either you hit them as too condescending or detached or something like that and not willing, maybe not willing to be involved or as really bowling them over with something very dramatic. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And the feeling that's also going to give me is that people are, people feel like you're doing something, or you're like putting them on purpose almost. 


PATIENT: Well like, I mean, I imagine a lot of it comes from the fact that I feel very separate myself. I really have trouble identifying with other people. And as a result, I'm sure even when I try very hard to make myself equal with them, equal meaning the same not superior or inferior, that I still come across like I'm somehow separate, and like somehow my problems are different from any of their problems. And I don't want that because I just - like I finally got a new roommate that I can talk to that has some of the same kinds of feelings and problems and stuff like that and she's very happy. She's got a lot of problems, but she's a very outgoing kind of person, which is the way I was in college. [14:19]


And the way I know I can be if I'm - haven't given up. Kind of tying to communicate with people, which I have now, which I have for the last two years; maybe I want to get back to the way she is, I don't know. And not let myself get really bogged down by worrying about my own problems.


COUNSELOR: But like it sounded, just to go back a second, like when you try to get over that gap or that separateness and like say something that would maybe bring you closer, it sounds like it turns out a lot of times it just underlines your feeling of being separate. And plus, like you don't have that energy or that, maybe that wish right now to reach out to people or to pull yourself towards them.


PATIENT: Part of it is really having trouble reaching out on a superficial level; just on an everyday mundane level, which I can do, and I used to be able to do. But right now I end up like - I really almost forgotten how to laugh, which is one thing I know my boyfriend mentioned - this boyfriend in West Virginia that I visited - that I can't have fun anymore. And this, in fact, my roommate was saying this today that she'd just gone through a really rough experience. And she said the way she was getting over it was that she was eventually getting able to laugh and just feel happy about some things, and I've forgotten how to do that. And almost anything (ph) it's gotten so that people say, hit some really sore spot with me. And I get turned inside and that's really why. [16:23]


COUNSELOR: You mean like day to day stuff that people might say instead of being able to take it, I don't know, as just kind of the medium of exchange hits a cord and you get scared or? 


PATIENT: I don't, well, not so much scared as unhappy; just - it's like being able to draw from them.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like everything's deadly serious in some way, and you don't ever leave that sort of - it sounds like if you said something it might be a throw away line for them, but from where you are it is serious. And it makes you think of something that you got to go look into or ...


PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, I'm able, at least right now, to respond to them on their level, but it still touches something inside me that will set me off. I mean I analyze, like I analyze that night as to why I was so depressed at this friend's for dinner that nobody wants to [sit close] (ph) to you. And I suspect, the only thing I can think of that would have set me into this besides the fact that they started - one of the things was that they stated talking about medicine, which, and economics, which I have been out of. I don't know very much about, and I feel very bad for not knowing very much about. But it's my own fault because I've been withdrawn within myself for so long that I - that's one of the parts of the outside world that I just blocked out and very deliberately. [18:11]


Just it would upset me so much, and it would make me so mad. It being so unidealistic kind of that I would just, I wouldn't care and I wouldn't listen to the news reports about the economy and, as a result, wouldn't know very much about it. And I guess the fact that I couldn't keep up with them just on basic issues like that was part of the problem. And, I don't know, part of the other problem I guess was this particular girl is - she had just gotten married. She's a lot older than I am. I had lived with her and this guy and this whole group of us living together, and that's how I know her (ph). She used to live, not live here but be a very good friend of everybody and go with a guy that lived here. 


And it's like in a lot of ways, she's what I would like to be. And I'm like her in a lot of ways basically, but I don't across that way. She's very strong and very self-sufficient and self-reliant and that kind of thing and very, yet very much a very good house wife and good academic at the same time. And doesn't get - is able to take her current problems, whatever they are, whether it's buying a house or something like that, putting them on a very kind of light level to the point where she can discuss them with other people and that can become the topic of conversation with everybody joining in and trying to help out. [20:06]


And just basically, just basically being able to be sociable, and I guess somehow the contrast between her and me because between - with her I feel like I'm a very young person, and maybe it's because I'm like 10 years younger than she is but it's a lot more than that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah because it sounded like you were saying, "OK I've got some of the equipment or traits or temperament" or whatever you said you felt you shared with her, and like that contrast really hurts because you don't, or at least you feel you don't, present yourself at all like that. 


PATIENT: I present myself when, especially when I'm with her and when I'm with her husband. I lived with both of them for a long time before they got married, and well what happened was they took me in when I was - I had been in the hospital for about a month. And the people I lived with couldn't take me back because they had some more people come and live with them. So I sort of didn't have any place to go, so I moved in with these two people who have since gotten married. And the guy that has since sort of developed into a boyfriend, and then one other guy who was Ginger's (ph) boyfriend. 


And they sort of took me in and took care of me, and I was completely dependent on them. I guess partially just the fact that I was so weak and dependent made me feel like I was really obligated them, and that I wasn't their equal. That I was some little child that needed to be taking care of and looked after, and that was sort of be [helpful to them] (ph).


COUNSELOR: And like somehow you don't - it sounds like you don't know how to break out of that. Like you're in a different place now in some respects, but ...


PATIENT: I'm - I still - they still act the same way towards me, and in that case there was some legitimate reason for it I guess. But the problem is that I act that way with a lot of people that there's no legitimate reason for. That I just generally feel socially inferior to (inaudible at 22:19) the intellectually their equal or superior or something else and being able to just cope with reality. Just knowing what's going on around me in town or politics or where to shop or anything else. I come across like, "Well, to help me; take my hand." [22:43]


COUNSELOR: It's like, I don't know, it sounds like some of its simple things or common sense things and that makes it even more embarrassing for you. It's not like OK so you might not be able to deliver a dissertation on, I don't know, a politician or something, you know, whatever the topic is. But it's like the daily bread and butter or whatever of a conversation, you're having trouble doing; like talking about where to shop or whatever and that really, that really makes you feel left out. It's like not having the rudiments to even. 


PATIENT: I can do OK on a one to one thing. I can talk to people fine, but in any kind of a group, even up to three people, I all of a sudden - I'm just, somehow I don't have the right. I feel like I'm left out it. 


COUNSELOR: You don't have the - what did you say?


PATIENT: I didn't - I don't know. I mean I don't have the right motivation skills. I don't know. Generally I don't feel competent or confident. There are a few times that I can do beautifully if I'm in a particularly very high kind of mood. Yesterday at work I was able for about the first time to say something in several meetings. I feel very comfortable but it's a very rare thing and it's a very sporadic thing. And if I get just the right degree of drunk at a party, once in a while, and happen to feel good, I can talk to anybody there about anything. I can make people that - I can patch up arguments and all sorts of things between black militants and white conservatives in this city, which is, you know, which has happened at various parties and talked both their languages. And, but that's very rare. [24:47]


COUNSELOR: It's like very rare, and it's not - it's very isolated it sounds like because that, speaking in three staff meetings doesn't mean to you well that's the start of something different for me. It just means gee that was nice, but it won't happen again maybe. 


PATIENT: Well it's, I mean, the fact is it's happened many times in the past. Many being like once every six months, and all that it shows me is that in fact I am capable of talking with many different kinds of people and in fitting in with various different situations. Given, number one, getting outside of myself so that I do have basic information on what's happening in this world or in my particular environment, which I tend to be very isolated from. I don't know what's going on on campus, in the city, or in the nation, and it's my own fault.


And that being one thing, just quipping myself of basic information to carry on a conversation, but the main thing just being - feeling like I'm part of that group, whatever the group is. That I'm an equal part of that group, and that I'm not some little peculiar, ignorant person that doesn't belong.


COUNSELOR: And just on the first part of what you said, I'm getting - in a couple things, you said I'm getting these like two things that happen. One is OK feeling really cut off or lacking in information or inadequate, incompetent. And that's bad enough, but on top of that is this sinking feeling that you're the one that spun it to yourself. You're the one that's responsible for cutting yourself off. [26:39]


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: And that just makes it feel more hopeless it sounds like or ...


PATIENT: Well in a sense it's not more hopeless because it's very easy. I mean that's a problem I can solve. I can go out and read the newspaper; that being an objective thing. What I can't go out and do is change my attitude towards just basic function. If I keep letting myself be completely overcome with feelings of depression and feelings of just not fitting in anywhere, I don't know, kind of - it's very hard. I guess there were some things that happened this week that I imagine were related to what I talked about last week of things not really getting better because like either two or three night ago, I guess, I really, really considered suicide real strongly. Much more so than I have in several months, and it was sort of like two nights running. [28:07]


It was like the night before last I guess I just thought about it a whole lot, and to the point that it scared me. And I ended up just cutting myself on my arm a few times, and if I can hurt myself badly enough, I can usually kind of get back at myself. And that sort of really helps me, and then I can go to sleep. And like last night, I'd just driven back from a trip to visit a friend in Nebraska and I guess that, I think this was one of my good friend's that has just recently gotten married, and in a sense it probably reinforced my feelings that I told you last week that, "Well she's married now, and she's got her life. And she doesn't need me, and I'm just sort of an outsider that comes in and visits every once in a while." And it just kind of reinforces the feeling of being an outsider.


And like the fact that I had driven - the reason I had driven up there was her sister had visited New York, and I had driven her sister up to see her and then driving her sister back to New York. And on the way back, her sister got talking about some very disturbed roommate that she used to have. And well I guess she'd ask me about my mother, and I said, "She wasn't very good." And she said, "Well in situations like that sometimes you just have to leave, you know, leave her alone and that sometimes it's better to just let one person get really bad than to bring both of you down with her." And I agreed, and we sort of - I'd sort of just left it at that. [30:02]


And then she started talking about this roommate of hers that, I guess a following (ph) roommate of hers, that had slit her wrists and tried to kill herself and got in a mental institution as a result. And then gotten out and gotten married, and this girl I was riding with said that she didn't think that was very good. That she really had to learn to stand on her own two feet, and that maybe she never would. But that this girl had finally had to move out of the apartment because she just - she couldn't do anything for the girl, and she didn't know if anybody could.


And the psychiatrist had ended up recommending that she get married, and [stay sick] (ph) or get married because maybe some kind of support would help her, and I guess that had kind of made me come over the feeling of it just being really hopeless. 


COUNSELOR: Like here's this weak, unhelpable person they were depicting. It sounds like the only way she was going to get by at all was by being supported or to have a ...


PATIENT: Yeah well she kind of gave me the feeling that she wasn't going to get by at all unless she'd learn to stand on her own two feet by herself, and I sort of brought up the point that maybe she really couldn't do it by herself. And maybe that having a husband that would support her would help, and this girl would always be (inaudible at 31:37).


COUNSELOR: Well and it sounds like that, that also has some affect on you too.


PATIENT: Well it hit home.


COUNSELOR: Yeah well maybe, like it sounded all too familiar almost. 


PATIENT: Yeah and kind of the - partially the way it was discussed, we, you know, the [picture of] (ph) kind of aura around this girl, and kind of the fact that this girl was not in any shape to do anything for herself. I just really got the feeling that she might as well just be left there and be pardon to kill herself if she felt like it. And, I don't know, it just - naturally I identified with the girl, and I guess that's what really got me upset. [32:36]


But anyway, I just sort of stopped off at my boyfriend's house on my way home. I don't know why, but I just really wanted to see him. And this was, yeah, this was Sunday night, and I asked him if - I didn't ask him if he would come over, but I really indicated that I wanted him to come over, and instead he said, "No that he was busy." And I couldn't ask him anymore, but I knew damn well that I really needed him to support me against myself because I felt really, really - I knew if I went home, I was - I didn't know what I was going to do, [so I left] (ph). I mean like I managed to get out of my boyfriend's house on a very nice, I don't know, OK level, and he said, "Are you going to be all right?" And I said, "Sure." 


And I ended up going home, and like in a sense it was really lucky that I managed to have like 25 tranquilizers or something like that, which I took. And that I was also very lucky that I didn't have anything stronger because I knew, I mean, I knew that those were not going to really hurt me. But that they might calm me down. They might knock me out for a while, which is in a sense what I needed. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah it really sounds like you've had a very dangerous, well, almost a dangerous creature on your hands, and like it was like shooting a - shooting a gun, one of those tranquilizers guns, into a very, very agitated animal. And the only thing you could do is to just like snuff out that energy for a while.


PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, if I had had anything stronger, I would have taken it and that scared me too. I mean like I was really glad that I didn't have any sleeping pills around, which I used to have all the time. And it was like I just took absolutely everything I had, and I was pretty sure it wouldn't do me any harm. But at that point, I felt like I really didn't care if it did or not. [34:50]


COUNSELOR: And like a couple (ph) in that sounds like there was a feeling well there was nobody to even know about that.


PATIENT: That's right.


COUNSELOR: Like you, like almost like you stopped at your boyfriend's house, and he wasn't there for you. 


PATIENT: Yeah, well in a sense, yeah. 


COUNSELOR: I mean he was there but ...


PATIENT: I mean he had his life, and I had mine. And I wasn't - I couldn't cope with it. I had to talk, and I just really couldn't. And, I mean, I did everything that I needed to do, and I was perfectly responsible. And I fed my Iguana, and I fed my cat, and I got all my stuff out to go to work the next day because I knew if I, if things started to work that I probably wouldn't be in very good shape to organize myself the next morning. And, I mean, it was like really - I went to bed. It was like a knife and a razor blade at the table right next to my bed, which is, you know, it's really bizarre in a lot of ways.


COUNSELOR: Why is that? Why did you say that?


PATIENT: Well ...


COUNSELOR: I mean that may seem like that's a stupid question, but I really wanted to know why you thought it was bizarre or whatever to you. 


PATIENT: As a psychologist, it's a very bizarre thing for patients to do. 


COUNSELOR: So like ...


PATIENT: If, you know ...


COUNSELOR: So are you thinking of me looking at it, or are you thinking of you looking at it?


PATIENT: I'm thinking of anybody looking at it as an objective observer. 


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: Myself included.


COUNSELOR: OK. [36:26]


PATIENT: It was just kind of something that I needed to do, and I was very - there's nobody else in the house except, I think, one of my roommates who might have been asleep, I don't know. And I managed to stay awake long enough to cut my chest pretty much with a razor blade, and I probably would have used the knife. I don't know how if I hadn't managed to get sleepy so fast, which I was probably (ph) - which was really cool that I did because I finally, after about a half hour or so, I stopped wanting to kill myself, which is kind of what I had wanted to do, was to get the feeling out of my mind. But I - there was no other way that I knew how to get it out of my head except to actually, in some sense, try - approach it without doing it. 


COUNSELOR: What's that - is that like a thing that seems to seize you, and once you start on that, you feel like you're going to do something about it. 


PATIENT: Unless something really drastic happens to change my mind and to get me out of that mood, which is very real, which is in a sense why I had wanted my boyfriend to come over because I wasn't that bad when I went to see him. But I knew I was getting that bad, and I knew if he didn't come over that I was going to do something. I didn't know what, and I, in a sense, I don't really like cutting myself particularly. And it can get to a point where if you cut yourself enough, you just want to cut yourself more. 


I mean you just sort of get addicted to it, which I had last year or something like that and then managed to go for six months without doing it. And it was kind of like not - the problem is like I can get dependent on him and I didn't want to do that, and he doesn't want me to do that. And I'm sure he was thinking, "Well she'll be OK, and I don't want to encourage her dependence." Whereas in this case - well I was really asking, but I didn't put it that way - just come for tonight so that I can get through tonight so that I can start work tomorrow and because I knew at the point that I started work, I'd be all right. [38:53]


As it was, I managed - I got up for work and went like a half day late, which was good because I didn't particular want to stay. [So I go] (ph) along to work, and I did a fine job. But I just, it was like get me through now, and I'll have more strength by tomorrow to start working on being independent, which I was. By last night, I was fine. I didn't care if he came over or not, but I couldn't tell him that. I couldn't tell him, "Look if you don't come, I'm going to try to kill myself." Because that of all things is just like, you know, it's a really horrible thing to do to somebody, and it's putting a really strong obligation on them, which I just couldn't do.


And the fact I was pretty sure I wasn't going to kill myself. I think if I had really felt that strongly, I'd probably would have called him and asked him to come over. There had been times when I was living with him with all these other people that I - this was after I had first tried to kill myself with all these sleeping pills. I had come back and began feeling the same way, and I gave him the sleeping pills and I said, "Hide them, and give me two a night", which I needed to go to sleep. But I said, "Don't let me have anymore." 


COUNSELOR: Yeah I was wondering is that a policy of yours not to have sleeping pills around now, or?


PATIENT: It's not a policy; it's that I can't get anybody to give them to me (chuckle), and I have no one that I can ask for them. I would like to have them around sometimes, but I would also like to have somebody else have control of them because right now I don't feel like I can control them myself. I mean if I had like ten around that's fine because that couldn't do anything, but I wouldn't like to have 30 or 40. [40:48]


COUNSELOR: It almost sounds like two different worlds that you're telling about. Like after you got home there, I don't mean like that you went out of control or just kind of blew the whole thing, but it's like something starts to happen, and you're powerless to stop it. You know a lot about the course that it may take because you - it sounds like you've been there a lot of times, and you know about, I don't know, maybe cutting and how much you were going to cut yourself or something like that. 


But there's something that just, for some reason I don't like the word control here but maybe that's the one to use. It's like you just don't have any power to stop those things when it starts. Does it feel like you're doing it? Do you feel like - oh, I suppose you could call it depersonalized or [some stuff] (ph), which is kind of ...


PATIENT: It's not completely out of control. I could stop myself. The thing is I couldn't stop the feelings and what it is, is a controlled way of stopping the really strong feelings. 


COUNSELOR: So the actions are in some way a controlled outlet. They have a certain amount of a dangerous or whatever feeling to them but ...


PATIENT: But it's control. I mean I'm not silting my wrists. I'm not cutting my throat, which I know very well I could do, and would do if I decided to kill myself. If I also decided to kill myself, I would make sure I secured the proper amount of pills if I wanted to that. I mean I've considered very well when I'm in a state like this what the various methods are and which would be most messy, and which would hurt my friends and my father the most and that kind of thing. [42:44]


In a sense it's not controlled in that it's like I have to do something right then, but I can't plan it and say, "Well tomorrow I'll just run away and get away from this." It's like I have to do something right now. But it's controlled in the sense of, like I evaluate it. I knew I didn't have anything to do at work until a seminar that afternoon. Had I had a patient waiting for me that morning, I would have never taken all of those tranquilizers. 


I would have cut myself probably, and I probably would have done it a lot harder. I would have done it in a place where it wasn't noticeable. I would have wore - I would have indeed wear long sleeve blouses ever since, and it, you know, it's like there's some practicality involved, and it's considered beforehand. And it's considered what I got to face the next day. Like I guess I had considered doing something Saturday night - it was, yeah, it was Saturday night that I cut my arm, and then it was Sunday night that I took all the pills. 


And Saturday night, I knew that I couldn't take too many pills because I had this obligation to take this girl to Nebraska the next morning, and I had to be in good shape to do that. And then it's like you can't play around with something like that. If I was really serious, I could have gone and killed myself, and called and left a message beforehand that I couldn't take her to Nebraska, so she could make other plans. But If I have people depending on me, then I'll make sure I do something about that obligation before I do anything to myself. 


COUNSELOR: So in some ways it sounds like it's very carefully gauged; what you do, how you'll do it, how far you'll go. It's like a - it sounds like a mixture of something. [44:40]


PATIENT: It really is. I mean like this time on this camping trip when I was just really ready to scream, and I just knew that I had to cry or do something, and my boyfriend was asleep. I mean I could have gone into hysterics right there in the tent and gotten him really upset, which he would have done. And gotten him - made him very responsive, and I didn't want to do that. I just very quietly put everything on that I had so that I wouldn't freeze to death and just went out and found a place that was far enough away so that he couldn't hear me crying and stayed there for several hours. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like just, like suddenly like you feel like there's no way to share this with anybody, or at least with your boyfriend, without engulfing him. If feels like no way to say, "Help me" without also adding, "If you don't help me, you're really going to be responsible for what happens to me." 


PATIENT: I mean I ask him to help me. It drives him away because he's scared. He's scared that he'll do something wrong, and that he's gong to be responsible, so I usually minimize anything that I'm feeling. 


COUNSELOR: And it's like he's saying, "You're too - you or this or your problems are too hard for me to handle. I can't get into this with you at all." 


PATIENT: Yeah he just really can't take it, and as a result I can't talk really about a whole bunch of even just little things that really bother me. That would prevent probably my getting to this stage. 


COUNSELOR: So there's an outlet, it sounds like it's cut off. You can't even - OK maybe you try not to be upset or have hysterics or talk about cutting yourself in front of him, but there's also a whole other range of things that you also feel you can't say. Is that what you mean; like you can't even approach any of these subjects? [46:48]


PATIENT: I can't approach a lot of them. I do every once in a while afterwards when I can do it in a somewhat, you know, a way to minimize the feeling and where all the danger is off. Like I talked a little bit to him last night about how I felt the pervious nights, and kind of some of the why's (ph). But it was OK then because we did it - the danger was over.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like there was no urgency in there. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Where going to have to stop. I want to say one thing, which I didn't say last time; I forgot. I got the feeling that you had had this experience when you've gone to see some other people. It's like beating your head against a stone wall or, I don't know, I guess my fantasy is that so you mentioned suicide, so everybody's got to pry into the symptoms or, I don't know, whatever it is. 


PATIENT: Yeah, right.


COUNSELOR: It's very dramatic and nobody listens to you. And like I'm very concerned about that; about if you have any of those feelings, I really want to hear about it. If anything like that happens here.


PATIENT: Here.


COUNSELOR: I'd really - because I think there are ways to do something about it.


PATIENT: Yeah, well I don't - yeah, I have not felt that way here. 


COUNSELOR: But like I really, just for myself, appreciate it if somebody can say, "You're not listening, or I might as well be talking to a stone wall." 


PATIENT: Yeah, well I'm not [with you] (ph).


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: Which is why I come back here because - I mean what I've had, every place else that I've gone, and I started going to just before I found out that I could come in here, I would just started again trying to go some - to a place at the hospital (ph) and the psychiatrist was the same way, and I didn't go back to him. I mean I still have the option of going back to him if I really need to, but he was - it's like hard, objective facts rather than motivations. It's like how many times did you cut yourself rather than what were your feeling and why. [48:59]


COUNSELOR: Yeah that's, that's exactly - I was feeling a little funny about asking you about a detail about that experience at one point because I had the feeling like it, you know, you must get a lot of those questions because like sometimes I want to know, so I'm just going to ask. 


PATIENT: Well that doesn't bother me because like I want you to know what's going on, and sometimes it might help me. It's just when the detail, you know, all the objective detail I think is important as long as you get the subjective feeing that goes with it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like you ...


PATIENT: Which is what I had trouble confiding. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah it's almost like well you could leave your symptom on the table with every little fact and walk out of the room and that would be OK or ...


PATIENT: Or I could put it in a questionnaire.


COUNSELOR: Right. 


PATIENT: Which is not too cool (ph).


COUNSELOR: The other thing I needed to settle was about the second time. Do I understand that you have a class on Thursday nights, Thursday evening?


PATIENT: I have a class until 10:00 on Tuesday nights. 


COUNSELOR: OK what I'd like to do if this would be OK would be to vary when the second time would be.


PATIENT: That's fine.


COUNSELOR: Sometimes Wednesday. It's not - sometimes it's not too preferable to come two evenings in a row, but like sometimes Monday and sometimes Wednesday. Is that - would that be OK?


PATIENT: That would be very good.


COUNSELOR: OK so let's see, what's this? So this week would Wednesday be OK, or would you prefer tomorrow? I can do either this week. [50:36]


PATIENT: This week I think I'd prefer tomorrow because I may go away for the weekend, but I'm not sure. 


COUNSELOR: OK.


PATIENT: But why don't you call me if it turns out that Wednesday going to be more convenient or something like that.


COUNSELOR: No both are OK with me. It's just that sometimes Wednesday I'm not here either.


PATIENT: OK.


COUNSELOR: And also sometimes people have feelings about having to come two days in a row. So like ...


PATIENT: Like right now, I would just assume come two days in a row just because right now I'm having a whole bunch of feelings that I would like to get expressed now that maybe is completely gone by Wednesday. It may be gone by tomorrow, so I don't know. 


COUNSELOR: OK yeah that's fine with me. So was it 4:30 is when you can come on Monday's right?


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: OK. I'm trying to figure out what week it is on (inaudible at 51:52). OK.


PATIENT: Thank you very much.


COUNSELOR: Right, see you then.


PATIENT: OK. [52:07]


END TRANSCRIPT
