TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi. I'm really tired. (chuckling) I think the coffee shop is going to be fine. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Harder than I had expected, harder than I remember it being.
THERAPIST: You worked for them before?
CLIENT: Not for this one but for (inaudible at 00:00:21). And I worked (inaudible at 00:00:25) which is (inaudible at 00:00:28). Yea. It's not easy to be nice to people as it used to be. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: (chuckling) 
CLIENT: Yea. I'm not sure why. It used to be really easy. I just liked people. Even [when I was] (ph) in a bad mood, it was just really easy to try to make people have a better day. [00:01:01] It's just what I like about working with customers. I like myself when I'm there. (pause) It's harder. Still there, it's just, I care less (ph), (crying) (pause) which is kind of scary to contemplate, that I care less about other people. But I don't know. (pause) 
That and the—I'm trying to think of a good analogy, but like the kind of intense, focused, relaxed, like working very hard and lining up the drinks and getting them—putting them together exactly right, in the right order, at the right time, is [I'm out of practice] (ph) [00:02:11] 
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: It's hard to (inaudible at 00:02:15) but, (pause) I find it more difficult to concentrate than I used to but that might just be me not knowing that I am out of practice? I don't know. (pause) I went to a thing for church last night and they hurt my feelings. They didn't mean to, but—
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:02:55) 
CLIENT: Yea. That's OK. Just, I said, "Well, I've been (ph) working at the coffee shop." And, then kind of—it was just a handful of people—and one person, the priest, said, "Oh, I could never do that." Not as a, like, "It's like a bad thing for you to do." But he was kind of like—I think he was trying to say, "Oh, that's beyond my capabilities." (pause) I just, kind of wanted to say, "Well, you could if you had to. I'm pretty sure you could if that was the job that you could get." (pause) (crying) So I cried for a long time last night. I talked with James about it [for a long time]. (ph) [00:03:50] Just—(pause) I—(pause) I had this thing that I'd love to do, that I was getting paid to do and that's not there anymore. And I want it back. (crying) Yea. 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: And it's—but I don't want it back the same way because the way I was living my life before this was what got me here. Clearly, like something was wrong, like, (pause) (crying) clearly, there was something wrong but—[00:05:02] 
(crying) It's the whole vision of who I am and what I do, and how I am valuable and where I fit in the world, in my communities. All that is—it's kind of gone in ways that I don't realize all the time? And certainly, I feel like it's gone. And it's like, I mean, James, for example, doesn't understand. He does not just, like I can't just, pick back up where I left off at school and if I go back I can't just pretend this didn't happen. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:05:57) 
CLIENT: Two years, I guess.
THERAPIST: Do you mean, (pause) in terms of the work that you do, or do you mean in terms of the how you and many other people would see or think about you? I don't know. 
CLIENT: It's the latter. It's, yea. (pause) Yea. 
THERAPIST: Yea. (pause)
CLIENT: It kind of complicates who I think I am and how I think about myself.
THERAPIST: Yea?
CLIENT: (pause) I also just feel like I can't just pick back up because I can't do it. I'm just not there. [00:06:56] I want it to be how I teach. I want that to be my life but I don't—(pause) I don't feel like that's something that I can do. It's part of something that I won't (ph) necessarily and not—(pause) I lack confidence in that, in my ability to do that. (pause) 
I guess I just feel like, (pause) all of the things that make me feel good about myself, I feel like the world has just kind of, one by one, said, "Nope, you can't have that. Nope, you can't have that either. Nope, you can't have that." [00:07:57] (crying) (pause) 
So, (pause) you have to mourn and then figure out what's left. (crying) (pause) Like I have this all this empty space inside and something else has to take that space up, but I don't know what it's going to be. 
THERAPIST: You mean more like, being what your work used to be?
CLIENT: (pause) (crying) Yea. And that kind of image is one sticks with—or that has been sticking with me in like different ways. [00:09:08] 
THERAPIST: I think as you're talking you may be kind of like shedding (ph) from being more angry or bitter to being more sad and defeated?
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying that they're not all there. 
CLIENT: No, but yea, yea, yea. (pause) Yea, and then part of, kind of recapping, what happened last night but it was exactly the same cycle of -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —being pissed off to being bitter and then just being sad instead. [00:10:03] (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess I'm imagining that partly because the sadness and sense of defeat being done too are more comfortable and (inaudible at 00:10:45) 
CLIENT: Yea. I guess so. (pause) (crying) When it's clear that means that people mean no harm, it's really hard for me to feel like it's OK to be angry. [00:11:06] 
THERAPIST: Well, you had it there for a second—
CLIENT: (chuckling)
THERAPIST: —with your line about how, "You know, if you really had to do that -
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: —you could." (chuckling) 
CLIENT: Yea, yea, yea. (pause) So, back to my dad -
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: —that's the thing. He didn't mean any harm. He didn't have anything but the best of intentions from start to finish. I think like I am sure of that. I am sure of that. [00:12:00] (pause) (crying) 
So there's some kind of—(pause) (crying) there has to be some kind of balance between saying that that's true on the one hand but it's also true that those things weren't OK on the other hand. Like that, he didn't mean any harm but he did a fuck ton of harm. 
THERAPIST: Well, sometimes he certainly didn't mean well. I mean, on a small scale like when he threw your clothes at you and shamed you and told you had to stay home and clean your room. And then clearly felt guilty about it later and invited you out without really acknowledging what he did. Like that's not all about meaning you well. [00:12:58] Like that's not simply making you clean your room because he thought it was important for you. I mean, he didn't handle it like that.
CLIENT: Yea, yea, yea.
THERAPIST: I mean, [you're like] (ph) -
CLIENT: No, that makes sense. (crosstalk) (pause) 
THERAPIST: I'm sure other times he's lost his temper, that wasn't very well intentioned. 
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: I don't mean to know just what you're saying. [Of course there is.] (ph) And I think that's an important thing of balancing out but [that's what I think about] (ph) the whole story.
CLIENT: OK. (pause) Yea, I don't know. I don't know how to make any of that make sense or be OK with it not making any sense. [00:13:59] (pause) I don't know—(crying) (pause) I don't have anywhere to go with that. (pause) (crying) 
There's this, "This American Life." I haven't gotten that far in listening to it but there's a piece that recently like, "What doesn't kill you." And there's a story, apparently, about a girl who got bitten by a shark. And then they said it was going to be OK. But then she got really sick and she almost died. And her parents basically ignored the fact that she almost died and then bought a house where she had gotten bitten by the shark. [00:15:19] And basically just completely dropping the ball. 
And just this kind of thing I discussed with some of my friends on Facebook. And one of my friends who has pretty rough parents said, "Well, it seems pretty clear to me that these girl's parents were psychologically invested in her not as being sick as she was and her being OK. That they had a lot riding on that." (pause) 
I don't know how else to say—to explain like—(pause) it's like my parents just lost me. [00:16:10] (pause) (crying) A couple of years ago, my mom was really pushing to talk about stuff and all that. And I was like, "I'm sure you're very angry at me and you'll just need to tell me about. You really need to let it out." [00:17:07] And this was very troubling and distressing for me for a while until I figured out that, "No. Fuck you. I don't—yea, maybe I'm angry at you but right now you want me to let out my anger so that you can feel better about whatever happened. And no, this is going to happen on my schedule and not yours. If it doesn't happen..." So, there's that. (pause) (crying) 
That, and the things that she thinks that I should be angry at her for are not the things that I am angry at her for. [00:18:01] I'm not angry at her for having a mental illness that meant that she was incapable of taking care of her children. Or at least I don't think I'm angry at her about that. Like—(crying) 
THERAPIST: [It's all right.] (ph) I think you're saying that this or what she said or what wanted from you felt like a kind of disguised way of using you.
CLIENT: Yes, yea. Yea, which is what she does. That's how she knows how to be with me. I'm her favorite child. Did I mention that, [that thing?] (ph) Oh, well, yea, I'm the favorite. Lucky me. [00:18:53] 
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
CLIENT: Thank you. It's a real honor. (chuckling) I'm the one that reminds her of herself and so I'm the one that she does (inaudible at 00:19:06). I really started to get intense around 12 or 13 for me and it kind of has continued the pace. She and Penelope have a more openly antagonist relationship and Penelope is the one I think reminds her of papa and I'm the one that reminds her of herself.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: Yea. I'm the favorite. (pause) It is just using me. Maybe not "just". It is using me among other things. [00:19:54] (pause) 
Is that mean though, to say, "Oh, let's work through the things that I feel guilty about. Mainly like, not suing your father for custody of you when we got divorced," which I think is one of the things that she really regrets. Honestly, like I'm really glad that she didn't get custody of me, in retrospect. Like she did sue for custody of Johnny (sp?) when Johnny (sp?) was in 8th grade and she lost as she needed to. She was not—the year after that was when papa found out that she'd been smoking pot with Johnny. (sp?) Like—
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Yea. [00:20:57] (pause) So—but I'm not—(pause) Like I'm not angry at her for not being really capable of taking care of a child. (pause) Maybe I am, but it doesn't feel like. I kind of say, "Yea. That was where you were." and that, "It sucks and I'm sorry. It's no good. But the fact that you're still so far from seeing what the problems are in the way that you treat me? Like, that is a problem." (pause) She still—she just can't have a conversation with me where she doesn't talk 80 percent of the time. [00:22:08] (chuckling) It's hilarious in some ways, like it's—but in a very bitter way. 
THERAPIST: I see. (pause) 
CLIENT: (crying) When I'm so lost and so confused and kind of at the end of my rope, and she knows that. That's the reason she's calling me. (laughter) (crying) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But I can't and I don't have the -
THERAPIST: That's the bitter laugh.
CLIENT: Yea. (chuckling) And it's just as much me as her. [00:23:05] I don't know how to say, "You know, I really need to talk about what's going on with me now." Or how to not—I don't know—stroke her in the ways that she is asking me to. You know, be the loving and attentive listener.
THERAPIST: I guess I wouldn't have imagined that if you could magically know that she would actually respond well and be able to do it for 15-20 seconds or longer, it wouldn't be that hard for you. (pause) 
CLIENT: Maybe not. [00:24:05] Yea. (crosstalk) If she's stops giving me the cues, I would stop responding to that but I don't know how to break it. I mean, I try. I did tell her shortly after I got out of the hospital for the first time. I was like, when she was kind of like giving me some of her medical history. Like, "These are the drugs that I've tried and that did this to me." Well, that's really useful to know because as it turns out, she often takes Adderall and that's how I -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —why I tried it, hence, the only thing that kind of works so well. But I was like, "You're not me and the things that work for you aren't necessarily going to work for me." And she was like, "Yes. Yes." And she actually did pretty well with that. (pause) Yea. [00:25:00] But—(pause) [So tired.] (ph) I have to be at my most brave all the time when I'm talking to her or I'll just feel like crap. So it makes it hard to talk to her. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I don't understand. What is it that—(pause) I understand that it's very difficult to talk to her because even when you're just out of the hospital or (inaudible at 00:26:11) or doing awfully, that conversation is going to about her and where she's at. It might be about trying to make her feel better about she's being with you or something like. So I think I'm clear about those things but I guess I didn't follow about where the bravery comes in?
CLIENT: Oh, just to be able to stop her and say, "You know you need to think about it this way."
THERAPIST: OK, that makes sense. It just sort of -
CLIENT: To say, "I'm not you."
THERAPIST: (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Or like, "It's not OK for you to tell me, 'Oh well, I got a new job,'" when I'm desperately looking for a job. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: To say like, "That was the wrong thing to say to me." (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: That's starting to make sense to me. [00:27:02] I didn't catch what you meant about that but that makes sense. (pause) I would imagine that (inaudible at 00:27:15) 
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: My thought actually—(pause) I know that the conversation after being hospitalized was that that sounds like actually one good thing that came from the hospitalization was that telling her—
CLIENT: I love you.
THERAPIST: It worked. Yea.
CLIENT: Yea, yea, yea. James talked with her a lot when I was in the hospital. [00:27:49] I think his—(pause) He said—from what he says, it sounds like she's working very, very hard to recognize the differences between herself and me and to not to push me and to kind of not use me. (chuckling) (pause) 
THERAPIST: Is that the bitter laugh again?
CLIENT: That was the just like—(crosstalk) I don't what to say about that. Like, I'm glad she's working hard. I wish it were paying off more. (pause) 
And also the—(chuckling) [And Holly] (ph) had more trouble with this than I did but all of our boyfriends end up on mom's side. (crying) (pause) Mom is very charming and so—(pause) [00:29:13] Yea, they end up on mom's side against us, James, less so. I kind of told him when I was in the hospital, "Be careful here." (laughing) "Because this is what happens and it's not pretty." (laughing) But—(pause) and she really needs to be the center of attention, particularly from every man in the room. (pause) 
But, none of this got—none of this was a problem before I was in high school. [00:30:12] Of course she was the center of attention when [I was] (ph) eight and nine and ten. Like it's normal that all that—(pause) I adored her. She's beautiful and she is really creative and she never told me no, ever. (chuckling) And sometimes I really needed people—somebody who was not going to tell me no. Who was going to be really affectionate with me all the time. And that was really good. [00:30:59] (pause) Just next day she was gone. And I really (ph) don't know why. (pause) 
THERAPIST: What do you mean by whenever (ph) she (inaudible at 00:31:23)? Like, every other weekend or so?
CLIENT: Yea. Mostly but like sometimes she just would come? 
THERAPIST: And did your dad know that usually or he didn't and she would just be there?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't quite—I don't remember. And Dan remembers her not showing up or she—yea. She talks about that. But -
THERAPIST: It's devastating (ph) for you. 
CLIENT: I don't like waiting for people. When I was at school and James would come visit me on the weekends, waiting for him to get there was just horrible. [00:32:07] Like, so anxiety producing. And for a while, he was consistently late. So we would plan to have dinner and miss it or like there would be a party and he would miss it and it—yea. (pause) Finally, I was just like, "Look, this isn't OK. Like, this is really breaking my heart. I can't do this. Like, you need to work harder to leave on time." It's been more of a deal than it should be. 
THERAPIST: I bet it goes back to her.
CLIENT: (pause) I guess so. 
THERAPIST: And I -
CLIENT: It's certainly the way I phrased it. (pause) Yea. [00:32:58] Just waiting for her to show up. 
THERAPIST: You have the love of your life.
CLIENT: Yea. (pause) (chuckling) (inaudible at 00:33:21) not very 
THERAPIST: (chuckling) I can't imagine him being real punctual.
CLIENT: No, God. (chuckling) There only a couple of times that he actually just forgot, flat out, period. But he was just always late. And it's private school and so there is no bus. And, yea, that's why they have an after school program. So it wasn't like it would be just me but. "Do you know when your father's coming?" "No. No idea, anytime now?" [00:34:02] (pause) 
Yea. I was always late. Yea. (crying) For a while, in high school and college, I would just have panic attacks when I was late and feel so horrible about it. I still feel pretty bad about it. But I'm better at not being late now. (chuckling) It's why it happens less often. I just show up really early. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. It sounds to me like the way you—again like concerning (ph) that experience of them being late for you.
CLIENT: Yea. [00:34:59] 
THERAPIST: I guess—(pause) my impression is that you remember and are very clear about what it was like with James and you remember and are very clear about it was when you were late. But you're much, I mean, sort of blander or flatter or about what is was actually like when Dan didn't show up. 
CLIENT: Yea. It's harder for me to remember.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) I think it's very hard too.
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: These are the things that I've (inaudible at 00:35:57) this week. These are the things seem to be the way that you are around him.
CLIENT: That's a useful thing for me to hear. I don't think I've heard that before. [00:36:07] (inaudible at 00:36:12) Yea. I do remember one time I—he's also like he's, I mean, he's a minister so stuff comes up and I'm sure, he's a disorganized minister, so lots of stuff comes up. But one time I was actually at therapy which was in a town a half and hour's drive away from where we lived. And he wasn't there to pick me up where he dropped me and then he couldn't pick me up. And so after some confusion, he call—I don't know if it was a friend of his or just some person—but a cab or limo service took me home. [00:37:01] And just like, "Hmm. OK. Guess this is how I'm getting home?" (chuckling) But -
THERAPIST: I wonder what could have come up?
CLIENT: Somebody's dying. It happens once a month. (pause) Or he scheduled two things at once and didn't realize it until the time was happening.
THERAPIST: Usually your kid would be the one you—
CLIENT: Yea, yea, yea. Well, I was imagining him scheduling things with two different children. (crosstalk) [00:37:59] 
THERAPIST: Yea. Sure, that I can see. I'm not—(inaudible at 00:38:01) being busy and having a (inaudible at 00:38:05) of a job and all that stuff, sure. But, yea, no.
CLIENT: Yea. (crosstalk) It wasn't very—Well, that's one of the things that's really hard about being a priest's kid is that it's hard to be second to everyone else's troubles. (pause) Yea, his job is to be the person who shows up in a crisis. Like, be the person who shows up when somebody is in the ER or when somebody dies or when somebody's home gets broken into or when somebody leaves his wife or when somebody beats his wife or all of those things. His job is to be there then but it's really hard. [00:39:04] (pause) (crying) And I didn't really ever come first. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I wonder how much it had to be that way?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I know he had the choice of hiring an assistant rector or hiring a full time person. [00:40:11] Basically a full time layperson. And he pretty much always wanted a full time layperson and still does. But—(pause) I imagine it—I don't know, I imagine that it's more rewarding to be there for people that you don't know sometimes than to have to deal with people that you have to deal with all the time. I mean, I imagine him being overwhelmed as a father and escaping into work that, there's no question, is good work. [00:41:00] 
THERAPIST: (crosstalk) responsible?
CLIENT: Well, yes, but—(chuckling) (pause) I don't know whether that was the case or not.
THERAPIST: Right. I imagine you can't remember what it felt like?
CLIENT: Well, it was always, "This is what I need to do because this is my job." And so I just—that was how it was. (crying) Yea, it was inevitable. I didn't know any other priests. I didn't know any other priests' kids.
THERAPIST: I see. No, no. I guess, so I think what you're saying is, what you remember really I guess and what was very painful, was knowing that you, then, came second?
CLIENT: (crying) Yea. [00:42:08] (crying) The year after my parent's divorce, for the first couple months after they separated, I think all of the people in the church made dinner for us which was a really nice thing. It was—what I remember is a year of just ham and shepherd's pie for dinner every single night. (laughing) I didn't like either of them. And if I started out liking them, I was going to not like them pretty fast. (pause) 
Yea. [00:42:58] (crying) And in a way it's—the idea that like, "Yes, this is what you do with your life. You take care of other people. This is a good job. This is how to have a fulfilled life." That's something I got from my dad and that's something I really, really value. But—(pause) (crying) it was at a high cost. Like—(pause) (crying) It took me a long time to get to where I could say, "OK, I want the kind of life where I'm doing what my father does," rather than a father that doesn't take care of you. [00:44:10] He takes care of other people. He doesn't take care of me. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I guess [something else where meaning] (ph) as where we started today was with how you could no longer continue to operate that way where you're working for [somewhere you] (ph) came second.
CLIENT: (crying) 
THERAPIST: I'm not saying that your work itself was bad for you. I'm just saying you couldn't continue to focus on it and, for a long time, included (ph) that how you were feeling. [00:44:55] 
CLIENT: (crying) Yea. (pause) Yea. (pause) I really want to push back on that but I don't have anything. (chuckling) Like, "No, that's not right." (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: What don't you like about it?
CLIENT: Well, I didn't feel like that was what I was trying to say when I started talking? But that is about what was happening. (pause) But if I'm not doing good work, then I don't feel like I'm worth taking care of. [00:46:11] So it—(crying) (pause) it's hard. (pause) (crying) 
THERAPIST: We should stop now. 
CLIENT: Thank you. Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: Thank you, you too. So [I'll met] (ph) you at some different time. Was it on Monday?
CLIENT: Monday afternoon?
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: Great. 
END TRANSCRIPT
