TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client number 0735-103, Session number 17, 1970.


PATIENT: It's kind of funny I showed up early which is nothing bad. I didn't mean to make it sound like I was rushing you or anything.


COUNSELOR: Oh no, no.


PATIENT: No, I thought I was going to have a real hectic day today, you see I'm trying to arrange that trip to Michigan. Sometimes those things can click off and sometimes they just... it's like rubbing two pieces of sandpaper together; you can't seem to get anywhere. And then everything seemed to click off so the time that I have left doesn't allow me to do too much, so I'm just kind of sitting on my thumbs until quitting time more or less I've got time.


What are you doing, going into the art business?


COUNSELOR: We're driving the (inaudible at 0:01:17.8) away for the weekend.


PATIENT: I thought [you meant] (ph) the artist too.


COUNSELOR: No "(chuckles)".


PATIENT: [Have you got] (ph) a free sample for me?


COUNSELOR: Right "(chuckles)".


PATIENT: I'm hurt though. I'm hurt.


COUNSELOR: Why are you hurt?


PATIENT: I overhead you saying you needed a couple of dollars to pay the cab, why didn't you turn around and ask me?


COUNSELOR: [I don't] (ph) think I should be making money off you so "(chuckles)".


PATIENT: Oh, I would consider it a loan. If you didn't pay me back why I'd write it off on a lost column you know. You see when I'm going out of town frequently, or when I'm just getting ready to go out or just got back, why I usually have a little money in my pocket and I'm the big spender from the East see. [As long as it's] (ph) company money.


COUNSELOR: I see, I see.


PATIENT: [When it comes to] (ph) the day of reckoning but then when that comes around why I just (inaudible at 0:02:07.7) deny it, add in the switch (ph) factors and all kinds of typical tricks.


COUNSELOR: Right but did you feel insecure (ph) or a little bit hurt or...?


PATIENT: No, I'm just kidding. [Give you] (ph) some more time to think anyhow while I was sitting down there (inaudible at 0:02:25.0). 0:02:26.6


Talked to my wife the last few days, said something about if she would encourage me I'd probably give up smoking. And she got the point across that this, isn't one of the roles that she wants to play; the wife that gets her husband to do things by hook or crook, or any way. She wants me to be an individual where I do things on my own and then just tell her about them later, this, is the type that she is more or less. And I won't accept this role and she won't accept the role that I want her to play, so it's sort of a Mexican standoff type of thing. I want her to be the wife that gets her husband to do things, "I'll do this if you do that," or "Please do this for me," or something. So we've got a little bit of a Mexican standoff type thing going.


It's one of the things I was sitting down there thinking about.


COUNSELOR: Yes. There doesn't seem to be any way around this (ph).


PATIENT: It doesn't seem to be. Like I say, I don't particularly want to accept the role she wants me to play entirely and she doesn't want to accept the roles that I want her to play, so what are we going to do?


This among other things (inaudible at 0:04:10.1) keep me from trying to break my neck, make sure I (inaudible at 0:04:13.2). "(Chuckles)" Sure (ph) I'm missing anything here? You'll never find a familiar (ph) couple I suppose if you ever... [I could] (ph) work this job for 30 years probably. Like I said the other day she said something about that... I said something about I thought she was in some kind of a mood and she said, "No I...". Oh, I thought she was in a mood or if she had a boyfriend or something, she said no she wasn't in a mood but she thought maybe she might need a boyfriend "(chuckles)". 

I've still got that other idea in my head.


COUNSELOR: "(Chuckles)".


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)".


COUNSELOR: [Enjoying the] (ph) (inaudible at 0:04:59.4).


PATIENT: Yes, yes, you know how it is. 0:05:00.3


She's kind of a... the last few days there she said something about... oh I was telling her about what I said here a couple of sessions ago, about how I wouldn't hesitate for a minute if a girl gave me the right stare or something, to pick (ph) her up and take her up to my motel room if she was so inclined. So we got to talking about how to pick up a girl or something like this and she was telling me about when you stare, or when you're say in a restaurant and you look at a girl and she looks up at you, and she says, "What do you do?" And I say, "I look away." She says, "No, you're supposed to stare at her." So is this right? She's teaching me how to pick up girls; this, is kind of odd you might say.


COUNSELOR: How do you feel about that?


PATIENT: It's kind of late in life to be learning things like that.


COUNSELOR: You mean you should have known that before or...?


PATIENT: Yes, I should have known that when I was 20, that's what she seemed to think. She couldn't figure out why I didn't know such things, I said "Well, I just never had any girl that would teach me these things it seems." Like when you stare at this girl and she looks away and then stares back at you, why that's a come-on. And if she keeps her hands down out of sight or on the table or wherever they are, why that's another come on. If she puts her hand up in front of her face or something and you can see her ring, why that's a go-away sign and all this. And I said, "Well, I never knew anything like that I'm just dumb as you can be when you get right down to things like this."


COUNSELOR: [So you felt a little bad] (ph) for not knowing that before?


PATIENT: I sure wish I'd known it 10, 15 years ago, no telling where I'd be now.


COUNSELOR: It would have been nice to know?


PATIENT: Yes, I guess that's why it would have been nice to have an older sister or something; maybe to teach you these things which I never had any girls teaching me things like that. If they knew it they kept it to themselves "(chuckles)". She said, "Well didn't the guys ever teach you anything like this?" "No, no. They never bothered to spread the word around if they knew it."


COUNSELOR: And left out some important information.


PATIENT: Yes, it seems like you kind of missed something.


The last couple of days I've had the darndest (ph) need to write the [Masters in Johnson] (ph) just for the heck of it to see what kind of response I would get more or less, more than anything else.


COUNSELOR: For their (inaudible at 0:07:57.5)? 0:07:57.7


PATIENT: I read another article of theirs. Yes, for their... see what the... it's either that or go back to this Urologist I think because I think there's some kind of physical problem that needs to be corrected.


COUNSELOR: Like when you have sex like you weren't maintaining an erection or...?


PATIENT: I haven't had an erection in the last couple of weeks I guess you'd say, oh maybe once but that's to me unusual. Usually a guy has maybe one a day or something like that until he's maybe 40 and then starts slowing down or something. But I still think there's something physically wrong. 


COUNSELOR: And I guess it's not that you just haven't been interested it's...?


PATIENT: No, in fact I feel like I've been overly interested. Of course about a week ago, until about two weeks ago, my wife was on her period of course and that slowed down things but that didn't delay my interest, let's put it that way. But it's just... well, like I say I haven't missed a mini skirt in two to three weeks at least.


COUNSELOR: I understand, right.


PATIENT: But that doesn't do anything.


COUNSELOR: Like being interested in a mini skirt doesn't mean that you get an erection?


PATIENT: No, not at all. Let's put it this way, the other night, or Friday I think it was, I picked up this book at work that some guy had and it was strictly one of these sex stories. The [two best] (ph) kinds, there's nothing but sex all the way through the book. I read the thing all the way through and it didn't... well when I got in bed that night of course I expected to maybe kind of flash back to some of the stuff I'd read and then kind of create an interest, as well as snuggling up to my wife. And of course we sleep in the nude and this should create interest and nothing. It just kind of bothers a guy when it seems like all the stimulus is there but it just doesn't do any good. 


COUNSELOR: Yes, it seems like with all that stimulus like you ought to. 0:11:00.8


Was the... all that stimulus, like your wife and that book you read, was that making you feel aroused or was it just like it was there but it wasn't having an affect on you?


PATIENT: Like water off a ducks back. It didn't seem to have any affect at all. Of course I've noticed over the last five, ten years, oh I guess this part's normal though, a person when they're 18, 20, 25 in that age group, if they were to pick up some of these pictures that I had they'd just have to run to the closet and hide for about an hour. I can pick up the same thing now and it seems like I can glance through it just like any other piece of business that comes across my desk, it's...


COUNSELOR: No big deal.


PATIENT: ..."Oh well, I'll put this in this slot here," and that's all there is to it. And I don't know, maybe this, is all a complicated picture that I don't... I'm not able to arrange all the parts to or something. You know the way society looks at all this nowadays is entirely different than what it was ten years ago. My ideas on things like this have changed in the last year or two, even so maybe all this kind of fits together in a different way and I'm not able to completely perceive (ph) the picture I guess you might say.


COUNSELOR: By perceive (ph) the picture do you mean understand?


PATIENT: Yes. Maybe it all fits together in such a way that it just doesn't do anything for me anymore, maybe that's what I'm trying to say. In fact, like I said my wife has encouraged me to try to see if I can't pick up something while I'm on these business trips. And I'm going out to the lab there in Michigan tomorrow. I don't know, six months ago I would have been all enthused about maybe I could get out of the lab early and get to some place where I could eat and then go to a bar later and see what I could find and all this stuff. The way I look at it right now I'd just as soon stay at the lab until 10 o'clock tomorrow night and work and go back to the motel and go to bed and forget the going out and chasing around bit. At least it's...


COUNSELOR: That doesn't appeal to you?


PATIENT: Well, I don't have the ambition let's put it that way. I think I look at it from an entirely different standpoint than I would have six months, a year ago. I look at it from a stand point of, "Well what's the use, I couldn't do anything anyhow," and all this type of thinking, so it just doesn't entice me anymore. 0:14:06.8


COUNSELOR: Yes, there's no point if it's not going to come to anything. 


PATIENT: Because like I say, I've tried a few times and never had any success and so...


COUNSELOR: You feel bad when it doesn't work out.


PATIENT: Yes, I haven't been able to get anything, pick up anything and everything else just doesn't seem to be going any better so why should you even worry about it so...


COUNSELOR: You're not likely to pick up a girl in the first place and then the second place would be you (ph) and I guess what you're saying is like maybe you wouldn't get hard anyway.


PATIENT: That's about it (inaudible at 0:14:53.9) these flights, you know how airline stewardesses are if you ever travel very much, they're kind of distant; they're friendly but they're distant. I used to try to see... well I used to get excited, emotionally not physically, about the airline stewardesses and even took one to an apartment one time. Just the fact that I happened to have a car available and she needed a ride and her apartment was more or less on the way, so there wasn't anything really. Well, we didn't have anything planned let's put it that way, in fact I think she would have been very reluctant even if I was single to... but I wouldn't even bother to try that out because it just doesn't interest me. [It seems like to me] (ph) if an occasion rolls (ph) where an airline stewardess needed a ride some place when, say for instance I get to Michigan, I could offer one of them a ride and she accepted it, it would be more or less of a bother to me now. It's going to be a waste of time to have to go out of my way, even two blocks, to take her some place and so that's the way I look at it these days.


COUNSELOR: Yes, like with the bother it seems like you don't have any hope of anything developing.


PATIENT: That's right, so why waste your time. I'm in this sort of confused state, I want to but I don't want to for different reasons and I might have wanted to and didn't a year or two ago.


COUNSELOR: What are your reasons now?


PATIENT: Like I say it's a waste of time. Back then I seemed to be trying and couldn't succeed and then just be determined, yes still try the next time. Now it's a waste of time. 0:17:05.9


COUNSELOR: Yes, like now you're deterred. And yet you partly want to in a way or...?


PATIENT: Oh yes, I suppose so. Like I said, I still got that idea that I want to go to bed with somebody other than my wife and the sooner the better I suppose.

It's a world full of nuts, right?


COUNSELOR: Is that how you're applying that to you or...?


PATIENT: Primarily, yes. Like I say, it's a world full of nuts, just a different species of nuts.


I talked to my wife again about this but the improvement was, that she thought I was making as a result of this and she said well, it was the fact that I didn't let things bug me so much nowadays as I used to. And I guess it's more or less valid that I don't let things get to me so much but then again I don't have the same outlook on a lot of things that I used to. 


This goes along with what we were just talking about. I don't have the ambition to try them things like that it seems like, as much as I used to. Whereas I used to and I'd try and I'd fail and a couple of days maybe [to kind of jog in there] (ph) and I'd go right back to the old pattern again.


COUNSELOR: I guess it's not altogether, I don't know, it's not so much like you got better at doing things as you said your goals are. 0:19:41.8


PATIENT: I was thinking about this, not only does life go in a (inaudible at 0:19:47.8) function but all the things connected with it, like you can divide your work up into several projects, like this project's up, that project's down and so on and so forth. But instead of sort of running the zero line right through the middle I'm trying to move the zero line down the list, so that maybe all the things above the zero line will be more than the ones below.


COUNSELOR: Yes, I get what you're saying, it's something like you wish you're able to move the sign function up instead of moving the zero line down.


PATIENT: Yes, if I'm thinking the same way you're thinking, yes. I'd like to be able to be the, if you pardon the expression, cocks man (ph) that I was maybe 15, 20 years ago. No not 20 years ago, [I think it was] (ph) 20 years ago, 15 years ago let's say and then I can maybe pursue it (inaudible at 0:20:55.1) vitality.


It's kind of a funny thing, I was sitting there in Church the other day, yesterday, one of her boyfriends of course was there, him and his wife and their kids. Among other things I was sitting there thinking, you know I wished I had the vigor, or whatever you want to call it, that that guys got. Even though I do kind of harbor a little bit of animosity at him (inaudible at 0:21:26.9) whatever you want to call it.


COUNSELOR: So you'd like to be that vigorous yourself?


PATIENT: Although I do think that some of the stories that he told my wife is more or less just a line that guy's feeding the girls and some of them take it in hook, line and sinker and she did. And I think that was just part of the situation.


We were talking to this couple; one of the couples that we swing with, this guy and my wife never did hit it off too well but they went along for a while it seems like. But she and I got along fine together, as fine as I'm capable of.


COUNSELOR: What do you mean there? 0:22:41.2


PATIENT: Well, without being able to really achieve erection you can't really feel that you're thoroughly satisfying a girl. Nonetheless she was of a mental capacity that she could accept this, whereas some other couples we've tried to swing with they haven't; the girl hasn't been able to accept this of me. And like I said at Church yesterday I was thinking now if he and this girl were married we could have a real compatible couple that we could be very compatible with but it just doesn't seem to work out that way. 


So when we were talking to them the other night I mentioned trying to get together, I said, "Well I've got to get back to work," Call them back later and check on it and see what their ideas were. And my wife talked to her for a while, for quite a while, in fact about an hour or so. So the next night my wife was at work, well I called back and talked to her, on the pretext that I was lonely. See her husband works at night and my wife works at night so I thought I'd call and chit chat with her. 


I found out that my wife had told her several things that really weren't true and so I immediately told her how I felt about the situation, not how my wife felt that I felt, which contradicted what my wife had said. And I don't really think it made any change in the situation but it did seem to alleviate my mind as to the fact that she knew how I felt instead of how my wife thought I felt, which wasn't true in my books. I told her that my wife has a way of doing this quite often, she'll tell things from the way she sees them. Even things that say we've done together, she'll be telling some other couple about them and she won't have her story straight she needs to [have it] (ph) corrected. Now I just say, well the heck with it let her tell it that way. If it ever gets to where I need to tell my side of the story I may be completely contradictory of her but I tell it the way I see it.


COUNSELOR: So are you [straightening it out] (ph) the way you saw it (ph)? I guess I don't understand it entirely, like I know I understand the situation but... 0:25:27.4


PATIENT: Well, let me put it right down to (inaudible at 0:25:36.1) facts. About three or four weeks ago I guess it was, this guy calls about 11:30 at night, it just happened I was up and still watching the next (ph) edition football game on TV or something. He says, "Hey, why don't you go jump in the car, you come over here and I'll jump in the car and come over there?" And I was all in favor of it so I said, "Okay." I talked to my wife without even consulting her beforehand and I said, "Okay, we'll just go through with the plan like it is." And I went and talked with my wife and she was tired, had a headache, not in the mood and all this stuff, so I talked her into going ahead and doing it. So there the other night when I was talking to this girl she said well she had talked her husband into it because she was more or less (inaudible at 0:26:31.2). This was the Asian (ph) girl with the [bad back] (ph) and all that that she'd talked him into it. Nonetheless it created a situation where my wife and her husband were together and not really wanting to be, and it's kind of like we forced them to it. So it kind of didn't help the situation at all which was kind of not too good in the first place so (inaudible at 0:26:54.8) all of that. So like I said it was kind of an ego noting (ph) to me to find out that she...


COUNSELOR: She wanted you.


PATIENT: ...wanted me and I wanted her and yet the other two didn't care for each other.


COUNSELOR: It's a pity.


PATIENT: Yes it is. Like I said I wish that she was married to the guy that my wife really goes for because then we can have a real swinging situation. You know I don't really see that much bad in it. You see these things on TV, you read about it in magazines and what have you and all this. It's bringing out all the bad points when really the only bad point is that you can't find a couple that's completely compatible to you, you and your wife, that's the only bad point about it. [You don't like that one] (ph) "(chuckles)"?


COUNSELOR: No that's okay. Did you think I didn't approve of it or something or...?


PATIENT: Well not being married I don't know whether you could really grasp the entire feelings that are in the situation like this. My wife and I like to call it maturity maybe it's not.


COUNSELOR: Call it what? 


PATIENT: Maturity. 


COUNSELOR: Oh, maturity. 0:28:19.4


PATIENT: Some couples can accept the idea of their partner going to bed with someone else and not let it tear them up but for most people it's kind of "that's my property and I don't think anybody else should have it." We don't really look at it that way. 0:28:41.6


COUNSELOR: And so you're thinking that maybe I felt like, well I don't want anyone fooling with my man and [to a bunch of people] (ph) who...


PATIENT: Like I said I didn't think that maybe you could completely grasp the situation. Maybe you don't have anybody that you're that involved with that you could transfer your thinking along that line. A lot of people have the idea that marriage is this contractual thing where I own that person; they don't do anything without my approval, when it's not really that way in the long run. You have a certain control over that person but then again you can't really control every move that they make, you don't really, well you shouldn't be able to because you couldn't if you tried. But you have sort of a working relationship I guess you'd call it with another person and that's marriage.


COUNSELOR: And mentally you tend to look at it [and think that's] (ph) more mature, you and your wife both.


PATIENT: Well we call it maturity, I don't know whether anybody else would or not. We try to pin a name on it like maturity and say that's it, maybe it is and maybe it isn't.


COUNSELOR: But be aware that other people might not see it that way.


PATIENT: I'm well aware; in fact I think I would say that there is a minority that would look at it that way that the majority seems to say, "Well I own that person, my wife, my husband." And they won't let anybody else touch them. 0:30:34.4


I keep thinking that if I have to without any qualms I could accept the fact that the only way that I could carry on love was all (ph) love. But it seems like, like I say this, isn't all that a woman looks for.


COUNSELOR: It might be okay with you.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: But...


PATIENT: It might be alright with some women some of the time but not all the time. 


COUNSELOR: So you feel like just about any woman would be disappointed?


PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:31:58.6)


COUNSELOR: Yes, like a woman who likes it for a while for a couple of times?


PATIENT: You'd get tired of not being completely fulfilled, or whatever you want to call it and it just wouldn't work out. And that's the way I look at my wife, I say well maybe she can accept it maybe even the majority of the time but who knows some of the time that she'd like to have it some other way. And so I have to, I guess maybe in the long run, I'll have to accept that she has a boyfriend.


COUNSELOR: You're thinking that, well if it's something that she wants, if she wants to f*** and I can't give that to her well. In a way you can't be surprised with her wanting a boyfriend.


PATIENT: I say, well what am I going to do? Let's just put it that way.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you feel sort of sad and a bit resigned?


PATIENT: Wouldn't you?


COUNSELOR: Yes, sure. 0:33:34.1


PATIENT: You go to all the MD's, or the General Practitioners (inaudible at 0:33:52.4) with this problem and they kind of laugh you out of the office. And I've been to one Urologist and he's not giving me that much encouragement to come back a second time and really pursue this problem. It's as if, well that's just happenstance so you'll have to live with it. That's why I said I think the last couple of days I've been playing with the idea to even write [Masters and Johnson] (ph) to see if they will give me any encouragement on it.


COUNSELOR: Because nobody's helping you.


PATIENT: Nobody seems to be helping me because I think the problem is mostly physical. It's some kind of physical problem that I can't determine and the people who seem to be able to determine don't think it's that important. 


COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like they just don't realize how important it is to you.


PATIENT: And yet it is. I'm reading this article there yesterday, it was one of these interview articles where people in the audience asked questions and all this, and I'd read about two or three paragraphs and I'd insert my own little question like, "Hey can you help me? I've got a problem." Which is what I would have been doing if I'd have been there, I'd be jumping up saying, "Hey I've got a problem, help me." But I guess it's a major accomplishment that I'm able to admit it and still keep my sanity. Maybe that's just my own little ego building (ph).


COUNSELOR: Yes, I guess you're saying it's not an easy thing to admit.


PATIENT: No, I don't think it is. But it seems to be all within me not to... I wish this girl, pick up where I was talking about a while ago, is very vivacious, easily can stimulate a pine tree I think but not me. And yet she, like I said, was willing to accept the fact that she couldn't stimulate me to an erection. 0:36:30.0


COUNSELOR: In a way that almost makes it worse because like if she could stimulate a pine tree, it's like you said before, all that stimulus there and there's nothing to blame it on.


PATIENT: It's all my fault.


COUNSELOR: Is there anything different that happened, like the times when you do get hard from the times when you don't?


PATIENT: Well, used to be that the situation was usually that I came home after working eight, nine hours a day, very tired. Around eight had a chance to go right to bed, or something like this situation, where I could just plop down and relax after a real strenuous exercise or working or what have you, and then I could. Now it doesn't seem that even that brings it on.


COUNSELOR: Even relaxing?


PATIENT: Even relaxing after three, four, five, eight hours, ten hours, whatever, hard work, which seemed to be... used to help but even that doesn't seem to do anything.


COUNSELOR: So mostly nowadays you just don't get hard period?


PATIENT: Or used to be that maybe getting up in the morning. First thing in the morning stretch and everything else starts stretching but like I say only once or so in the last two or three weeks. I'm a has-been at 35.


COUNSELOR: But I guess that's really how you feel a little?


PATIENT: Sexually, yes.


COUNSELOR: Are you being (inaudible at 0:39:36.6) right now or...? 0:39:38.0


PATIENT: [A little bit] (ph) I suppose. I think I was kind of mentally primed for it anyhow though. Not having a chance to sit down and talk about things like this kind of makes you forget it after a while and maybe you don't get depressed. But when you kind of have these things in your mind and have a chance to sit down and talk about them, you kind of have a tendency to get depressed maybe.


COUNSELOR: If you pay enough attention to them you just let them depress you.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: You know those times you feel you shouldn't be sad or you shouldn't be depressed or... is that right (ph)?


PATIENT: I don't know, should I? Should I put that much importance on sex? [I like it] (ph) to say that I put too much time in thinking about sex and maybe this, is the reason I think, well I still have that tendency and maybe I just put too much importance on it. But it's always been sort of an, I don't know, important part of my life. At least I think about it a lot.


COUNSELOR: No, it's no small thing to you.


PATIENT: No, it occupies a lot more of my thinking than it should I suppose but nonetheless it does so I guess I've got to learn to live with it.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:41:54.5] how much it occupies your thinking and also it doesn't help being able to get hard and (inaudible at 0:42:02.5). 0:42:03.6


PATIENT: You don't want what I'm thinking on your tape.


COUNSELOR: What were you saying about my tape?


PATIENT: I said you don't want what I'm thinking on your tape.


COUNSELOR: Oh, I don't.


PATIENT: No.


COUNSELOR: Do you mean I wouldn't want to hear it or...?


PATIENT: That and wouldn't want anybody else to hear it "(chuckles)".


(Inaudible at 0:44:13.8) is stimulating.


COUNSELOR: Is there something that turns you on?


PATIENT: Well I was thinking where I could say to (inaudible at 0:44:21.3) sit on my lap, or how I could get my hands on your legs, or something like that and it kind of makes my pulse beat a little faster and like I say you don't want anybody to hear this part of the tape.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're feeling maybe a little embarrassed but like also you're enjoying this?


PATIENT: Yes, it's both of those.


COUNSELOR: I see. 0:45:00.8


PATIENT: Maybe we should start talking about the (inaudible at 0:45:32.0).


COUNSELOR: But we have a few more minutes do you want to put it on (ph)?


PATIENT: Do I what?


COUNSELOR: Do you want to put...?


PATIENT: No, no, no.


COUNSELOR: I guess it just doesn't seem right to you to continue talking along the lines that you were thinking?


PATIENT: Not really. I've always had this therapist, patient idea should be a completely non-involved, which is true I suppose that way you don't... well you know the complications.


COUNSELOR: I agree with you there but I also think you can't stop a man from thinking.


PATIENT: No but you can't really... but you don't want to encourage him when he's not thinking along the lines he should. Like I say you don't want to get therapist, patient involvement because it's got to be along the therapeutic line.


COUNSELOR: Oh yes. Yes, like you said...


PATIENT: I think this, is why single girls don't go out with married men because they're afraid to get involved. So you've got to watch for that little ring around the finger.


COUNSELOR: I guess what I'm trying to say to you is, yes you're right I definitely don't want to get sexually involved with you but...


PATIENT: I know I shouldn't condemn myself for having those thoughts.


COUNSELOR: Yes and also to [bust up through] (ph) legitimate (inaudible at 0:47:38.9) about here if anything else. 0:47:40.1


PATIENT: And I'm still afraid of who listens to these tapes. I can be fairly bold even knowing there's a tape recorder going on and someone might listen to them but to try to get erotically involved with you is not the purpose of this session, or any other session. And this, is what I would think you could try to... I try to progress it towards that plane (ph) whereas you would be trying to read what I'm thinking or something else.


COUNSELOR: You kind of get caught doing something you're not supposed to be doing.


PATIENT: What do you mean caught?


COUNSELOR: By the tape listener.


PATIENT: Oh yes, yes. It would be kind of amusing though wouldn't it? Someone else listening to this tape can hear a scream, or a sigh, or something un-eerie (ph). What's going on? 


Way in the back of my mind it kind of objects (ph) me that they're trying to make skirts longer. Even the disc jockeys are fighting on this; you hear them on the radio. On the way up here, the guy said, "Oh, the button makers in Paris are all happy because the dresses are going to be longer, this means more buttons." And he says, "Come on girls let's fight it." "(Chuckles)" "Let's prove them wrong." "(Chuckles)" So the disc jockeys are even fighting longer skirts.


COUNSELOR: Yes there's something I want to say that I'm not sure I got across (inaudible at 0:49:35.3) like when I say to you it's alright to talk about that, it's not by way of seducing you [a little] (ph) or something, it's by way of saying it's alright to talk about that.


PATIENT: I don't want to talk about it unless I can pursue it. 0:49:50.1


My wife and I were talking to this other couple about going down to this nudist colony, in fact she was in the Miss Nude Universe contest and she's a pretty good looking girl. And we were talking about when they went back down there and we said, "Oh we'd like to go with you." They have a trailer and they just take their trailer and park it, of course we don't have anything, we'd have to stay with them of course. Nudism to me is, I don't know, I keep thinking maybe it might be a thing of the future, maybe it's not the thing; nonetheless it doesn't bother me to run around nude. A lot of people would be completely sick at the idea, not having any clothes on. 


I was thinking that last night I went to... oh, I was running around in a pair of swimming trunks and I've had these swimming trunks for four, five years and when I first got them we lived in this little old town that was pretty religious. They had everything according to the (inaudible at 0:51:00.8) there and I'd go outside in these swimming trunks and we'd get calls from the neighbors. The next day my wife would be talking to some of the neighbors, "What's your husband doing out running around in shorts?" "They're not his shorts those are his swimming trunks." "Oh, I thought they were shorts." It shows where their filthy little minds are but they couldn't accept the fact that a person could be running around with that little clothing on. 


So, last night or yesterday I was running around this way and I got ready to go to bed, so I just slipped them off there in the living room and trotted into the bathroom, and of course the kitchen windows were open, the curtains were all wide. And I was thinking afterwards, we'll probably get a call from the neighbors saying, "Why don't you put some clothes on when you walk through the kitchen?" I couldn't careless; I'd tell them where they could take their little beady eyes. If they didn't like to look they didn't have to.


COUNSELOR: "(Chuckles)" I guess we should be finished (ph).


You were scheduled in for Friday. If you'd like we could try and make three sessions this week and one early next week to finish off our 20? Or else we could do it the way we planned and have one session and [take it back] (ph)?


PATIENT: When do you think we could try to have the other one?


COUNSELOR: Well, we could do it Monday, Wednesday and Friday.


PATIENT: I won't be back this Wednesday. We might try and say Thursday. I'm supposed to come back in on a flight Thursday morning.


COUNSELOR: Would you like to do it that way or...? 


PATIENT: Yes, if you want to. Go ahead and schedule in for (inaudible at 0:52:41.0). One problem, I won't have a car. I'll go up and get a company car. Do you want to go ahead and schedule one for Thursday and I'll see if I can't get a car and come up here. Seeing as I just catch a cab from the airport down to the lab and go ahead and go to work. What type would be...?


COUNSELOR: Is 4:30 okay for you?


PATIENT: Not really because if I get a car I'd probably have to have it back by five o'clock. You wouldn't be able to schedule one earlier would you?


COUNSELOR: I don't think so. I think it may be better to schedule that appointment after you get back. I know what we can do, we can get Monday and Wednesday next week maybe.


PATIENT: We can schedule it, it's just whether I'd be able to keep it or not. I'm supposed to go back to the Missouri lab tentatively next week.


COUNSELOR: Well, we'll just have to see our schedule (inaudible at 0:53:45.7).


PATIENT: I don't intend to stay down there very long but... 0:53:54.6


COUNSELOR: So we'll do it on Friday like we planned.


PATIENT: See you Friday.


COUNSELOR: See you then.


END TRANSCRIPT
