TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I brought the letter today with me, but –
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's basically the, um, the recordings are sort of a $50 subsidy –
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: so you know, what I typically do is I subtract $50 from my regular fee.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I offered you a fee below that because I knew you couldn't afford it and I wanted to work with you. So right now that your insurance is covering it, I basically subtract $50 from my regular fee, which leaves you with a small co-pay. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: So you subtract it after—?
THERAPIST: So basically my fee's $195, so between that—between the $50 of this and what your insurance pay covers, it's like a $5 or $10 difference, and that's what I charge you. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: Yeah, sure. I'll go back and look at it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but—cause you were—you don't owe the difference. You know what I'm saying—it's your insurance plus this leaves you with a very small co-pay. [00:01:03]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So, does that make sense?
CLIENT: Yeah, sure.
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah, cause I knew you were concerned about that. You e-mailed me –
CLIENT: Yeah. They said it's not billable (ph).
THERAPIST: No, it's not. You're not—you're not getting billed. You're just giving me a co-pay, that's it. And I think you have like an $80 credit, you know—do you want me to give you the $80 back or do you just want me to credit it to co-pays?
CLIENT: Yeah, sure.
THERAPIST: Okay, that's fine.
CLIENT: Um, okay. (laughs) But if I have any more questions, um, could be. (laughs) So I think last time you were saying something important and then we ran out of time. I was thinking—I was very curious about what you meant. I think you were talking about associations, um, and that kind of like a big deal for me, like I operate based on them, so I just wanted—I don't know if you remember what we were talking about. [00:2:04]
THERAPIST: Associations about—?
CLIENT: I think we were talking about expansiveness and I was making that list –
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: and you said something and I didn't quite understand what that was.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you were—I was sort of saying that this is a certain way of living; expansiveness and creativity –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: was important to you. So you think, okay: well Victor offers me this, this and this.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I was saying that you were very much—that he sort of becomes a concrete version of what you want, as if he's the only version of these things. You're saying, "Well, with Victor I can't go to book readings." —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: or book signings; as if Victor is the only representation of the things that you want. I think I was commenting on that. Does that make sense? [00:02:57]
CLIENT: Yeah, and then you said something about associations as well. Like does it mean like your studies, of course, as well you may know about associations—does it mean if I associate certain qualities with one person or in one landscape, does that mean that all other people and landscapes are kind of removed from that association? Is that the danger of associations?
THERAPIST: What do you mean 'removed'? How do you mean 'removed'?
CLIENT: Like if I think, "Oh, expansiveness can only be Victor's qualities," does that mean that no one else will—cause that's just my association?
THERAPIST: Um hmm. That's the flip side of what I way saying, yes.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's a big danger cause then I don't like give anyone else, you know, the time of day. It would be like, "Oh, you can't possibly have those qualities that I want."
THERAPIST: Yeah, and you really end up limiting your options. [00:04:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) That's not a good idea, I suppose.
THERAPIST: You're limiting your options and then the people who do embody at least a piece of what you want, like Victor, there's a lot of urgency around it, right? Cause if he's like it, then there's a lot of urgency to do something quickly.
CLIENT: Yeah. There was that urgency a few months ago, um, (coughs) (pause for .08 seconds) yeah, I mean, I just feel that maybe that's part of the reason why I'm sad so often—that I don't look for (pause for .02 seconds) the things that I like, (pause for .02 seconds) and the people that I already have in my life are in the places that I occupy, you know?
I mean—I don't know—is that part of nostalgia also? If you miss a certain place or person, then you kind of, like (pause for .02 seconds), you torture yourself on purpose by not allowing yourself to interact with (pause for .02 seconds) what you have. (whispers) I don't know.
THERAPIST: Like living in the past and not seeing what you have in the present?
CLIENT: Yeah. Um hmm. I don't know. (laughs) David said something about, "Oh, do you want to do something in the December break? Do you want to go out (inaudible at 00:05:55) and I said, "No!" (laughs) Like very, very—I just had this really strong reaction cause I just remembered last December. [00:06:03]
It was in Colorado and I was miserable and that, so—like I'm starting to have fun with David now but it's still like (pause for .02 seconds) the idea of going on a break, on a vacation somewhere within the U.S. with him makes me like cringe. (laughs) Um, again I'm fine with going with him, traveling with him in India, but not (pause for .02 seconds) even in India—I don't know. It's so weird. Like, I wish—I'm so confused.
I'm making myself sad and I'm making him sad. I'm making a lot of people sad because I'm sad. (laughs) I just feel badly about that. (pause for .07 seconds) (heavy sigh) (pause for .06 seconds) I just like, I think it's because of associations, cause—and I'm trying to—my gut reaction was just to shut out those memories. Forget Victor and forget places that I've gone with him, and even, you know, exciting places like Europe.
You know, in Europe proper—Rome. We were there together two years ago. Even that was kind of a little bit sad for me cause he was preoccupied the whole time. He'd been given money by his uncle, who runs a grassroots movement, and David was given money to go make contacts in Europe by his uncle. And so he was very, very—and he's—his uncle is a man of very limited means, but anyway, so David was completely preoccupied the whole time. [00:08:10]
And I went with him(laughs) but I was a little dissatisfied because of that, you know. (pause for .02 seconds) So now I feel like the idea of traveling with him does not appeal to me. Um, (pause for .05 seconds) I don't know—I just feel—and then that makes me feel like: oh, would I be happier with someone else? (whispers, emotional) That's all. (sniffs) (pause for .06 seconds)
While I'm thinking about this and controlling myself, and not thinking about it, like when I met Victor a month ago—more than a month ago—to give him that book that a photocopied for him, he told me that he was going to India in January. And he was going via Turkey, so he's going to stay there for a week, and I was just imagining, like, what kind of an experience would it be if I were going with him, you know? But I'm not thinking of it. [00:09:29]
Anyway, so it's just like—I wonder if it's just me making difficulties (laughs) you know thinking that because of my associations like: 'time with David is not fun when we're traveling because he's preoccupied. I don't ever want to do that again.' (laughs) I don't know why I feel that way. Why I'm afraid of (pause for .02 seconds) that. (whispers) I avoid it. 
And I feel guilty that I'm keeping David from (pause for .05 seconds), you know (laughs) this experience. Shouldn't he be with someone who says, "Yes!" (laughs) when he asks them, "Let's go on a break," or "Yeah," and it follows from this that when he asks them to marry him, they would say, "Yes!" instead of, you know, "No. Sorry. Not yet." (laughs) (pause for .03 seconds) [00:10:43]
I feel like I'm taking advantage of him. (pause for .05 seconds) (sighs) (pause for .02 seconds) Do you think it's just my associations that make me avoid traveling with him, or—it it's there's actually a genuine cause for me to avoid that?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm not—I think you're using associations maybe a little bit differently than I do; or maybe just more other versions too. When you say: 'is it my associations" what does that mean? 
CLIENT: Well just like the previous experiences of where I remember being not very satisfied or happy with that experience, and then using the memory of that to keep myself from (pause for .02 seconds) committing to such future experiences. (laughs)
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Is that not association? What is that?
THERAPIST: It's totally (inaudible at 00:11:55) (laughs) Um, it doesn't—does it matter? I mean, as long as—there's no proper definition of association I guess is what I mean.
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) I just wonder what I could do about it, you know? Like, what do I do? (laughs) 
THERAPIST: (pause for .05 seconds) About expecting things to come out similarly?
CLIENT: Yeah, like he says, "Let's go," what do I do? Should I say 'no' (laughs) cause I want to say 'no', or should I (pause for .02 seconds) um, give it another chance (laughs) and then regret that decision. (pause for .34 seconds) [00:13:18]
I don't really know like how much I'm supposed to expect from people, and how much—like in a relationship—what does the other person do and how much do you depend on them, and how much do you do it on your own, you know? And I feel like I've lost that understanding, and I feel like that's what Victor was accusing me of, when he said, "No one can satisfy you," or whatever. (laughs) 
(pause for .05 seconds) Yeah, I don't know. I'm not really sure—like, I'm not even sure if I want to be in a relationship or if I'm happy being on my own. I'm really confused. And it's okay to live with confusion, I think, and I think you said something like that earlier: people have conflicts and they live with them, and that's fine. But for me I feel like that leads to a lot of important—it leads to me not being able to make a lot of important decisions.
THERAPIST: It leads to indecisiveness. 
CLIENT: Yeah, and this whole thing with my apartment. I've spent, like, six or seven days of the last week at David's place, and I feel like it's absurd for me to pay rent at the Square. I keep getting tempted to call this one girl; I asked her to come look at the place if she was interested, and I think she's still interested. She could take over my lease. [00:15:10]
But then I'm like, "Wait a second. I'm so confused about David," you know and like, I don't know if I want to be in a relationship with him or with anyone. Shouldn't I be on my own, you know? (pause for .05 seconds) So, yeah, in my case indecisiveness leads to a lot of—I just—it makes for a lot of time thinking about all this when I could be reading or writing, or (pause for .03 seconds) (whispers) so (sighs) (pause for .07 seconds) –
THERAPIST: It seems like you sometimes hope I can tell you what to do or make a decision for you.
CLIENT: I know that's not what you want but it—I think you said yesterday you could help me do something better than that, which is to trust my experience, right? (laughs) [00:16:09]
So I mean that also, like, I hope we're getting closer to me being able to trust my experience. I mean that—that's what I mean; I'm not there yet so, um.
THERAPIST: So would you like me to tell you what to do in the meantime?
CLIENT: (laughs) No, you don't—I'm not forcing an answer out of you (inaudible at 00:16:33) It does help me to sift through all the noise and confusion in my head.
THERAPIST: Do you think I have an answer?
CLIENT: Um, (pause for .02 seconds) I don't know. (laughs) I don't know if you have an answer. I know that I'll only be happy with my own, you know, what I choose for myself.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [00:17:01]
CLIENT: So, yeah. (pause for .12 seconds) But I mean, like, for general things I wonder if you have answers. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Like what—what kind of general things?
CLIENT: Well, how relationships work or how (laughs) what can a person expect from their partner? You know, what is too much and what is just enough, or something? (laughs)
THERAPIST: I might have answers about that.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .08 seconds) I feel very, like I was thinking about (inaudible at 00:17:54 to [00:17:56) and so many things, and feeling like—I was remembering that I feel dissatisfied when I think that I'm just his blah, blah, blah—his girlfriend, or his wife, or whatever. I feel that, and I feel good when I think that I have an identity of my own. [00:18:21]
It's weird for me to say this because, you know, given this day and age, and women would say, "Obviously I have my own identity," and this and that, but the thing is that a lot of marriages—the marriages that I see working right now, the women are a lot more robust in their idea of being a wife. I mean, even if they may not have jobs, um, or they may or may not, but they feel comfortable with the idea of being someone's wife. And I am sure not there at all. 
I don't know if that is even my goal—if I'm working towards that. Then again, I know a few single women who are in their forties and I feel afraid of ending up like that. But then again, I'm like: what's so wrong with that? They are living for themselves. They have nice jobs; they're teaching; they have their own apartment; but then I fear, like, what if twenty years down the road they'll be (pause for .02 seconds) without children—how will it be for them then? You know? I don't know.
Anyways, I was just saying that I don't know if that's my goal that I want to become comfortable with the idea of being someone's wife. (pause for .04 seconds) I don't know. For a little while I thought I was—I looked at Victor as a husband because of the qualities he had. [00:20:04]
So—but like, David and I were at this gathering this weekend, like a huge thing—like 200, 300 people were there, just for this cultural event. There's festivals in India at this time and they were celebrating them all together locally, close by here. I had just read my story at someone's house, um, so I was recognized—I'm still not like a big writer in this locality or anything like that yet—but I was recognized as a writer, you know. I had my own little identity and I was kind of happy with that. Um, that I wasn't—you know—Mrs. so-and-so; that I wasn't David's girlfriend, or something. So I liked that. [00:21:12]
(pause for .03 seconds) But, you know, (laughs) that's only one gathering that happens once a year, and (pause for .02 seconds) you know, what you—what people say about you then is, shouldn't be that important. But, whatever, I don't know. Um, it is important but then (pause for .02 seconds) what do you do for the rest of your days? You know, and evenings when you feel lonely and you want someone's company.
THERAPIST: Do you feel less lonely with David?
CLIENT: Yeah, I do. Um, (pause for .02 seconds) but there is a much deeper, much greater sense of loneliness that I feel like no one can begin to touch. I felt like with Victor I was beginning to share that, but maybe that was just the thrill of something new. I'm not sure. [00:22:16]
I was beginning to share stuff with him that I've never shared with David. And it was like, "Wait a second. I have that?" you know? How can—how is it possible to still have that? But it was there. Like, there's still things that I haven't told David. So (whispers) from my childhood, and stuff. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Do you know why?
CLIENT: I just don't see him as being that emotional. Um (pause for .03 seconds) it's—(laughs) and I keep telling him this—it's stinging disappointment (ph) to realize you're not very emotional. And he's trying to be equally mean or something, and he's like, "(inaudible at 00:23:05) me too, to realize you're not an intellectual." (laughs) But um –
THERAPIST: That's a bit of a mean-spirited conversation.
CLIENT: (laughs) Well, we were just making fun. I was being mean—that's how I am to him. I consider it part of my charm (laughs) to be a little mean. Um, I don't mean him ill or anything. I mean, you know, I buy him little things and so, I'm sweet, but mean. (laughs)
But anyways, this saying about—this saying that I—so we were in my birth city, David and I, and again it was so nice of him to come with me there. I would not like to go on my own there. I've been away for so long and (pause for .03 seconds) hmm, maybe I could go on my own. (pause for .02 seconds) A sign of strength—but anyway, traveling there is difficult so it was nice to have a man with me. [00:24:13]
And as we were walking around the city and I think I came across a bungalow that I used to visit as a child, um, with my mom. She used to visit some relatives and their son used to, like, habitually molest me in the afternoons. Um, (pause for .02 seconds) I'm pretty sure that that was the bungalow; but anyways, if it wasn't, then that was certainly in the right neighborhood. I just stood there and was kind of shocked a little bit to see it after so many years.
And I was telling David that, you know, I mean—I understand that he didn't know how to respond to that, but he just kind of stood there (laughs) and didn't say anything. (pause for .03 seconds) So I mean, this happens often, where I have this incredible—to me—experience from my childhood that I want someone to look at and sympathize with—I don't know what I'm looking for, you know? But he just, is very silent, and he doesn't ask questions, and he doesn't—I feel like that means—that he doesn't want to know. And he just wants to continue with his work, you know? And to some extent, I appreciate that, because his work is important and I feel like it's important to me as well. [00:26:00]
So then the dynamics of our relationship change, where it's only about the present, maybe about the future. We have companionship; we're talking about (pause for .03 seconds) you know, political issues. Maybe I'm not as engaged and political as some of his other friends might be, but, you know, I look after him. He looks after me.
But what I'm trying to say is that is a relationship then, and that precludes me feeling like I can share anything significant about me. But with Victor it was different. Um, like our whole—whatever you want to call it—affair, whatever, started with us sharing, like, things that had happened to us. Like he had just lost his cousin—she'd committed suicide. And I said, you know, I was at that point and he responded and I responded, and we were—when we were hanging out, and you know things would just come out of me. [00:27:16]
I would tell him this happened, and this happened, and he was physically there just holding me and I felt like that was quite a good (laughs) response, emotional response. Once he said—like I told him once in my childhood my dad burned my artbooks. My mom would get me those coloring books that children have and one time he got really, really mad cause he wanted me to work on mathematics. He got upset and he just burned those books. And that's really, really—to me that was very frightening, you know?
I must have been six at the time. (pause for .02 seconds) So I really don't like to paint and stuff. I used to really like it. My mom tells me I used to really like drawing and stuff. But, so I told Victor all this and he's like, "Well, you've seen so much. I don't think I would've survived," you know, "if I'd gone through what you've gone through." It was nice of him to say that, but I just felt so, like, comforted you know and (pause for .02 seconds) like that was a nice thing to say. [00:28:42]
I'm not saying that David may not say it (pause for .02 seconds) but I'm saying that he has never said it. (laughs) And he's just so far removed emotionally from things. And I guess that, yeah, that's why I found Victor so attractive. That's why like, um, I fell in love with him because of his emotional connection –
THERAPIST: Receptivity?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) That's a lot to give up.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) (pause for .07 seconds) So I guess this is probably a good reason to be confused cause you feel like you're so emotional, and how great it would be to have someone emotional to share your life with. (pause for .03 seconds) There's so many other things you want to do with your life. You want to work and you want to be—you want to achieve something. You want to go to those book launches. (laughs) [00:30:06]
(pause for .09 seconds) (whispers) I don't know. (pause for .32 seconds) I guess that's why I feel that I don't really know whether I want to get back with David, and I still am so foolish—I still have, you know, hope that Victor might reconsider. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: Are these the only two options in your life?
CLIENT: (laughs) Um, yeah. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: Forever.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, I mean pretty soon I'm going to be, you know, old, and I don't think –
THERAPIST: Next week?
CLIENT: (laughs) Next year? (laughs) 
THERAPIST: You'll be 30 next year?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Forget it.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, see—you know. (laughs) (pause for .05 seconds) But I think, cause I have tried that and maybe it was the wrong thing to do at the time, but yeah, I was dating. (laughs) I was totally weirded out because I've never gone on blind dates and I was doing that. [00:32:12]
That one night where this guy—two guys invited me to the same party (laughs) that night. I was not going to go and then somehow I went, and I was hoping to leave before the other guy got there. And then by that time the first guy had fed me too many rum and cokes, and I was just totally drunk and dancing with the first guy. And then the second guy apparently saw me and got very pissed. But we'd only gone on one date (laughs), you know.
And then I saw some long-haired guy who reminded me of Victor, and I was so drunk that I just went up to him and said, "Hey, who are you?" and the first guy saw that and got really upset. So that whole, like, disaster (laughs) was totally not what I do and I just was like, "That is not what I want." (laughs) "I won't do that ever again" you know.
THERAPIST: So the only way to go on dates is to get drunk.
CLIENT: (laughs) Well, this guy who I went out with turned out to be 25, or 24, and I totally went off on him when he told his age. But he was being sweet and stuff, but still, like, (pause for .03 seconds) yeah, I mean, it's hard for me to say 'no' I guess. No to like—"No, I don't want to go to this party with you." 
THERAPIST: What made it that hard to say 'no'?
CLIENT: Well, again, you know, having low self-esteem, I suppose, and feeling like this is it. Not being able to stand up for yourself. Yeah, thinking too low about yourself. (laughs) [00:34:09]
THERAPIST: Do you want to talk today or at some point about what happened to you with your neighbor?
CLIENT: My neighbor?
THERAPIST: Was it your neighbor or your cousin who molested you?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Sure, um, I feel like I put that behind me. 
THERAPIST: I'm not requesting that you talk about it. I'm just providing an invitation –
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: cause I didn't want to leave that unnoticed. I know you were saying it in the context of what David does and doesn't offer you at times, but I didn't want to not notice that that's a big deal for many people.
CLIENT: Yeah, no. I mean, I definitely will—I'm open to talking about it. (pause for .02 seconds) Do we have time? Yeah, I mean, (pause for .03 seconds) in what narrative should I put it? (laughs) I'm wondering because, yeah, it happened when I was very little. Um, (pause for .02 seconds) so when I told my mom, she stopped taking me there.
I can't remember how often it happened. It felt like it happened, like, repeatedly but I've lost count. Was it ten times? Was it (pause for .03 seconds) you know, how frequently—I'll have to ask my mom. (laughs) And it's, you know, weird to ask her about that. But—what should I tell you?
THERAPIST: You don't have to tell me anything.
CLIENT: No, it's, um, I mean I realize that my suppressed sexuality probably has something to do with this, but I feel like I'm overcoming that a little bit, um, (pause for .04 seconds) (whispers) yeah (normal voice) I'm not really sure how that—I mean I'm sure it has affected me in some ways, but I've had boyfriends so it's not like (pause for .04 seconds)—I feel like things with my dad are far more, have been far more damaging to me than that. [00:36:47]
For me that was—I've somehow reduced that, the molesting experience—just to the physical act. I don't know if that makes sense, but that seems accurate. But I feel that's true, like, it'll—he would ask me to lie down next to him and not shout or scream or whatever, and not tell my parents—not tell my mom. Just lie to them. But that is—that was that.
But I feel like the stuff that, like with the books, you know—like talking about that, I feel like I tear up. But talking about the molesting, I don't. (laughs) It was just some, pre-pubescent—yeah—some jerk, (laughs) you know. But my dad has damaged me worse, I think. (pause for .18 seconds) [00:38:16]
I mean it's not that—I am sure there are great guys out there but my dilemma is, you know, like, giving up David—I'm not sure that would be the wisest decision, you know? Given our history and given our—like the affection we have for each other. I keep asking him, "Why don't –" like last night, it was like the sixth time, "Just please—just throw me out," you know? "Just tell me to leave. Just break up with me cause I can do it on my own." [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: And then?
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) Yeah, I mean, (pause for .04 seconds) I feel affectionate towards him and I feel it's nice to see him, but I feel like (pause for .03 seconds)—but it's also true that I did fall in love with (inaudible at 00:30:32) (laughs) I still found something new in him, and there were reasons why. It's not just the physical attraction, you know. The stuff that I was able to share with him (pause for .03 seconds) that meant so much to me; I guess that didn't mean as much to him.
So yeah, I mean, I know that they're great guys out there but(pause for .02 seconds) I have much stronger feelings for these two guys. (laughs) So, if I go looking for men they'll probably just be, you know, pale shadows of these two guys. (laughs) Um, plus it's too much work and there's too many risks. (laughs) [00:40:22]
(pause for .16 seconds) And yeah I do feel like time's running out and I should make a decision quickly. I mean, David feels like that too (pause for .05 seconds) and I keep telling him, "Let's just hang and let's just do what makes us happy. Why do we need to rush into a decision?" I'm just buying myself time I guess. [00:41:07]
Do you think I'll ever be as excited for David as I have been for Victor?
THERAPIST: As excited? Probably not.
CLIENT: Why? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well do you think that you'll just all of a sudden find David exciting?
CLIENT: (pause for.04 seconds) I don't know. It's not possible?
THERAPIST: I can't say what is or isn't possible.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I can say what's unlikely. Can you imagine feeling that way toward David?
CLIENT: That makes me very sad. (pause for .04 seconds) But can I live without that feeling?
THERAPIST: That's a different question. A question of whether you can—that what David does offer you will be enough, and there are things that you can do without or do with less of is a different question that will you one day feel that David just offers you this.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, that's what I mean. Like, how can I know what I want? How can I know what is more important to me and what is not important to me? That's what I'm having a really difficult time figuring out. (pause for .04 seconds) I mean, people want to be excited (ph) all the time, right? (laughs)
CLIENT: Are people excited, like, some of the time? (laughs) How often is a person excited, a normal person excited? (laughs)
THERAPIST: You were excited.
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: I said you were excited. You're saying can people be excited. It's like, well, you were excited so you're people.
CLIENT: When was I excited? [00:43:00]
THERAPIST: You were excited with Victor.
CLIENT: Yeah, but he's gone. (laughs) (pause for .03 seconds) But maybe I was excited because it was something new, and the novelty value had not worn off. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well, I think maybe there are two separate things. There's one thing about finding someone exciting, which I think is separate than the thing that you're talking about—I think that's a problem that you feel toward David, and I think maybe related but a separate problem, is you're feeling like he emotionally understands you and is open to you.
CLIENT: Who?
THERAPIST: David.
CLIENT: Oh, he is?
THERAPIST: No, you feel he isn't.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: From what you're saying.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which maybe is part of what makes someone exciting—if they're able to do that—but I don't think that's all of it.
CLIENT: It's not all of it? (pause for .03 seconds) What's not—what's not all of it?
THERAPIST: It seems like—and maybe this is simply my value system, and I'm not here to impart my value system on you—but it seems like having someone understand you emotionally is a far deeper relationship need than having someone be exciting—which to some people is very important, and you should have that if it's important to you.
But it's hard to feel connected to someone—although you do feel connected to David in other ways—but feeling like someone really emotionally understands you, seems like a fairly basic need in a relationship. [00:44:33]
CLIENT: That's exactly what I've been trying to articulate and I haven't been able to until now. And again, I feel like is my—or Victor was like, "You're crazy," or whatever, "You have—you have this insatiable need." Well ignoring that—I feel like that is important to me—someone to understand me emotionally. You know that's what I meant when I was saying being with David, is the daily disappointment to know that he's not.—
But then again, I'm like, "Can I take care of this myself?" you know, like—can I still be with David and just have someone else take care of my emotional need or take care of it by my own. Like, you know, with therapy and other things can I get healed, you know? And not feel like, "Okay, someone needs to connect emotionally with me right now," or will I never have that. Will I always have this wound and just need someone to (pause for .03 seconds) feel what I'm feeling. You know? (whispers) I don't know.
THERAPIST: So you're wondering if that need comes out of some difficulty you're having or whether it's more just sort of basic –
CLIENT: Yeah. That's like me all the time or that's me because of my neurosis or because of my depression. And it's temporary to be fixed and I don't need my partner to—I'm confused about that—what you said earlier, you said in very concrete terms that this is a basic need for me. [00:46:17]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think so. I think for many people too. I don't know about everybody, but I think there's—I think that—not to say everybody gets it in a relationship—but some people don't realize how important it is.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Some people give up on it. But I do think it's a way—it's pretty basic for most people. I think that that's true.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Cause it feels really, really good when you get it.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, it really does.
THERAPIST: So we need to stop for today.
CLIENT: Okay, alright.
THERAPIST: I will see you on Wednesday at 9:00.
CLIENT: 9:00?
THERAPIST: 9:00. 10:15 on Mondays and 9:00 on Wednesdays.
CLIENT: Yeah. Have a good weekend. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Okay, very good. Take care.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:47:08]
(shuffling papers, no voices until [00:47:22)
END TRANSCRIPT
