TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: Am I just supposed to start talking?


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: Why I'm here?


COUNSELOR: Whatever you feel like talking about at this point.


PATIENT: Well, the main reason that I decided to come here was because we're having problems in the area of - and I kind of feel that, you know, primarily my problem. And it's mostly over sex. And I just don't care to have it. I don't know why. I know that, you know, it's starting to bother my husband. And I just can't understand why I'm this way. Is it something that, you know, happened a long time ago or  - ? It wasn't like this when we were dating. And everything appeared to be normal. And it went along all right for about three to six months. And then, later on it was just very infrequently and now to practically nothing.


COUNSELOR: And it is that you just don't want it?


PATIENT: Well, I don't know if that's exactly it because sometimes I feel like I have normal desires. But then, when it comes down right to the point of being confronted with it, then I just - I don't want any part of it. And a lot of times I become very upset. I'm very indifferent towards it. And yet I - when - like, I can be sexually attracted to other people - other males. And if (inaudible due to background noise 0:02:15.4).


(Interruption by telephone call)


COUNSELOR: Maybe I should turn off my phone.


PATIENT: And that bothers me too because I wondered if just my husband - that I'm less attractive to or is it just that - it's - the grass is greener is on the other side or something like that. I don't really know. (0:02:49.8)


COUNSELOR: So if I get it, you have the desires towards him and other men, sometimes, and other men too? 


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: But then, when it comes right down to it and he expects to make love to you, then you just (inaudible 0:03:03.0)?


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Well, we've talked about it a little bit. I think some of it has been the result of the time element. You know, it's always seems like you're busy and you're tired, you know? And it becomes to me like a machine after a while. It's something you're supposed to do. But there's nothing fascinating about it anymore. It's just like do it and that's it. 


COUNSELOR: Sort of like brushing your teeth. Is that it?


PATIENT: Yes, right. And I can't take that at all. I mean, that really bothers me.


COUNSELOR: I hear you saying you want it to be something more special or  - ?


PATIENT: Yes. I mean, I feel that's the way it should be. But I feel that a lot of it has to do with me because I don't encourage it. And I don't really have any desire to encourage it. I usually - I can show passion or love in other ways. I can be affectionate or I can cuddle up or stuff like that. But when it goes any farther, I just don't care to become a party of it.


COUNSELOR: Yes, you just stop there?


PATIENT: And at first, I thought perhaps it was because we had had intercourse several times before we were married. And I kept thinking, well, maybe it was because of that. That I - I had, like, lost interest. Like it was fascinating then because you couldn't do it. And now that you could do it, it didn't mean anything. And yet I feel - you know, I love my husband in many other ways. And I hate to think that something like this would break us up. But it's getting to be a very serious problem. And in many ways we're compatible. But I don't think that we are the kind of people who could lead our own separate love lives and then live together on a common ground just for compatibility's sake. (0:05:30.6)


COUNSELOR: So, like, this is an important thing for your being able to make it with each other?


PATIENT: Oh, yes. It has definitely become a point of great concern. I think for a lot of reasons. I know that he has been attracted to other girls. I don't know if it has ever gone any farther. I don't think so. But I'm sure that some day it's going to click at the right time. That something will happen. And it's the same with me. Plus he's very jealous. And that doesn't present a very happy situation. And I have, up until now, tried to maintain some type of a - an awareness of this. At parties and that and the other, I won't get involved with anyone. But it's difficult at times. Because, like, if you go two months and you never make love once, it gets kind of tense after a while. 


And there were other factors I think that enter into it. I - after my husband and I - well, before we were married when we used to make love and that, I used to find a great deal of satisfaction in when he was masturbating. And I started doing it myself. There, for a while, I frequently - and I found that it was a source of - well, like I didn't need him anymore. You know? And that really bothered me for a long while because I have very strong guilt feelings about it to begin with. (0:07:23.0)


When I would talk to him about it, he would just cast it off like it was nothing. But I definitely felt that, at the time, it was interfering with our own lovemaking. And then, about three of four months ago, back in (0:07:42.9). It was a substitute. And while it lasted it was great. But then, it didn't mean anything any more. And then, it's at the point now where I don't know what to do next. I mean...


COUNSELOR: Yes, I see. You're thinking, like, of all the possible things that could have caused this, but that didn't quite seem right. And now, there it is. And you don't know what to do about it.


PATIENT: I don't know if it's - if it had anything to do with my background. I mean the fact that that's the reason I'm the way I am now. Or if it's just that I don't care to have it with my husband. I don't know what - how to pinpoint it.


COUNSELOR: Yes. Like, that should be reckoned because that's a theory people have (inaudible 0:08:39.7). It should be your background. That you don't know how to fit that together...


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: ... with what's happening now.


PATIENT: I'm sure that a lot of it has to do with - well, some of my background. It's like - like being educated about sex and accepting it. And I always wondered about it. And played around with it a little bit. There was always a line. Because you didn't do those things. And I know that my mother is very prudish about sex. And I was never able to really talk to her about anything. But I don't - I don't know if I can really put the blame on that. It's something that I never thought would happen when I got married. I mean, it's just - it's just been really a problem. And it has nothing to do with the fear of having children or anything like that. It's just - because I've been on birth control for three years of our marriage. And I had no fear of having children then. And I still didn't even try it. So that's not it.


COUNSELOR: No.


PATIENT: But it's - it's just still, I think, you just don't want to have sex with your husband?


PATIENT: Right. It hurts. And he knows that it hurts and so, therefore, he becomes very tense. And I know he's not satisfied. But there's no reason for it's hurting. Normally, it's not. I've talked to several doctors about it. And they said there's nothing wrong with me. I just can't relax. So I tried having a couple of drinks and that sort of thing. But it's still the same, just a complete blockage. (0:10:35.5)


COUNSELOR: Yes. So that's it? It's just painful and you don't know what to do about it?


PATIENT: Uh-huh. And I don't - I don't really know if - I think, really - I found part of the answer about a month ago. I did meet someone. And I did go to bed with him one time. And I found that I functioned perfectly well as a woman. There was nothing abnormal about anything we did or felt. And it was with a total stranger. And it's very - it's upsetting me. I'm going out of my mind because the guilt is there again and... 


COUNSELOR: By theory, you could make it somebody who isn't your husband.


PATIENT: But I'm sure that none of the - there was no feeling there of any other kind. It wasn't like I was looking for love or - I don't even know why I did it. It was justly purely a physical attraction. And I wasn't - I don't think I was even aware of what I was doing until after I did it. I was just in a complete fog. And then, like about a day later, it hit me what I had done. And I just became very - I just couldn't even talk to him. He'll - I didn't - and it had nothing to do with him. It was my own feelings of guilt. Because I felt like I had really betrayed him. And I have - I have no desire to tell him what I've done. Because then, I'll think it would serving an ill purpose. Except he didn't - show then I can enjoy sex with, you know.


COUNSELOR: Yes. It sounds like that - it showed you that as something that...


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: ... you were okay. It wasn't your fault that you were... (0:12:43.6)


PATIENT: It did definitely. And I felt that, if under any situations I should be tense, it should have been that one. Because it just - it all happened so fast. You know, like something you'd read about in a book, checking into a motel and all this. It was so unreal in that I was totally relaxed. And I was like a completely different person. And I've been - I really have been thinking about it a lot, not dwelling on the physical side of it - just what we did or anything like that, but how I was able to bring myself to do this. And why did I do it. And - but will I do it again? That's what really frightens me more than anything. And I - I really - I don't know where - I don't know where to begin.


COUNSELOR: Yes. Like, what is that? That you're just afraid that things will go on badly between you and your husband. And also, if there will be a person there and you'll do it again? That there's kind of nothing to stop you?


PATIENT: Well no, it's - it's not that. I really - I doubt really if I will do it again, maybe, for a while, for a long time even. But I don't know if - if it has reached a point where I just don't care to have sex with my husband. And I will be satisfied with the day-to-day routine for a set amount of months and then, all of a sudden, it breaks again. And I - I don't know. (0:14:40.6)


And then, too, the circumstances - I mean, like, the fellow giving me anything to (inaudible 0:14:47.6). I really can't identify with it. I can't identify feelings or love or enforcement with it. I don't know, maybe, if it was the other way around, if it was someone that I was attracted to more than just physical, then it might be easier to understand it. I don't know.


COUNSELOR: Yes. So something like that doesn't make any sense that should have been okay there?


PATIENT: So relaxed. I just - I just - because things like that bother me about myself. I mean, it doesn't matter to me what other people do. But I'm just - never thought that I would ever do anything like that - again, ever. And I don't know if I could ever do it again. Because the - the torment over the last four weeks has been just pure agony. I forget about it. And then, all of a sudden, it will hit me. And I just have to get out of the room and get control of myself because I'm just so afraid that I'm going to blurt the whole thing out. And I know that, if I did, it would probably - I don't know if it would end the marriage, but I'm sure that it would put a lot of - a lot more or a lot - a bigger problem there than is already there.


But I can't - I can't explain why I feel this way. I have a strong - I've always had a strong physical attraction to certain men. And it - like, really in the last couple of years, it's come - it's come again from when I was single. Yet I don't have any desire to get a divorce. And I'm perfectly happy in any other way besides physically. (0:17:04.0) 


COUNSELOR: Yes. So it looks like a mystery. I understand.


PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know if it would help if we sat down and talked about if - we have this way that we make love, that it has been such an issue that - it's like you're looking for something to go wrong, or you're expecting for something not to be right. I think - it sounds like I'm concerned I have more of an idea of it. And I'm constantly conscious of it, of what it should be. And I don't think we ever really did reach an understanding about even before when we were married. 


Weird things to enhance. You know, like, we would just start. And everything would be going along great we're sensing. And he would - he's a very meticulous, capable person. And then, all of a sudden, he would say something like, "Well, why don't you go brush your teeth." Or something like that. And that just turns me off. It's like, well, for God's sake, you know you should be involved in more - you know? You're mind should be on other things at that moment, then total perfection about the person that you're with. And this happened on several occasions. And, well, naturally the whole thing would just blow up. And I would have a tantrum. And then, everything would be okay the next time. Then, maybe it would happen again. And then, it just got to this point where it was like a chore for me to...


COUNSELOR: Yes. So if I get it, in the middle of it, he says something which is, like, really irritating to you? Or he says to you, "I'm not interested in making love to you. I'm only interested in your being perfect or something." And then, that really turns you off?


PATIENT: Well, I think that a lot of it - it's just like - and he's critical but I don't - I know he doesn't mean to be. We've talked about it. And he actually can't help himself when something hits his brain that's not right about anything, me or anybody. He just blurts it out without thinking until it's done. And then - well, you can laugh about a week later. But at the time, it really sinks in on you. And it does more damage than it's appearing at the time. (0:19:59.8)


COUNSELOR: But you can understand why he does it, but it still hurts your feelings.


PATIENT: Right. Exactly. And it's like - it's like a joke in a way, I suppose, because everyone else teases him about it. Because he does it to everyone. So it's not just me. And yet it has created a lot of tension between us. When it happens time after time, then pretty soon you just don't want to make love anymore. 


And the other thing, I think, that really creates a lot of problems between us is that we have really become dependent on other people as far as our social life now. And we don't really do that many things together, just the two of us. We do - the first two years we were married we lived away from our home. And we didn't have any close friends. And we did a lot of things together. And we had a lot of things to share between us. But then back to our area where we knew everyone, we became different people. It was like, all of a sudden, we really didn't need each other that much anymore. I could get in the car and go any where I wanted because I knew my way around. And we - like we rarely go out any where on the weekend, just the two of us. It always involves a third party. And we keep saying, now, this weekend, we're going to do this and we're going to do that. And then, a telephone comes through with something, and it just drove right back into it again. (0:22:09.0)


And I don't - it's - it doesn't create a very good loving atmosphere. Because when you're with other people, you tend not to pay that much attention to each other. And then, you come home and you're tired and you just go to bed and forget about anything. And then, Saturday and Sunday's over and you're back to the old routine of going to work and getting tired and all that. And it's - I - I feel - I can see it happening. I can almost pinpoint each stage where it's just - the changes were taking place. And a lot of times I would think about it. But I wouldn't talk about it. And then, it would pass. And now, all of a sudden, it seems everything's just coming down on us at one time. But we can't seem to break ground in front of us.


COUNSELOR: Yes. It looks like it's been dissolving for a long time. 


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: And all of a sudden it hits you.


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: But you really haven't been excited or romantic with each other or haven't had (inaudible 0:23:13.9) moment in a long time.


PATIENT: And I don't - I - I personally don't see all that - he has that much desire to make love to me. I'm sure that, if he did, this situation would not have gone on as long as it has. 


COUNSELOR: So if he really wanted you, he wouldn't have put up with it?


PATIENT: Right. I don't feel that any man would have put up with the situation of three years of once in his love making, under any - under any other circumstances, except that, I must be fulfilling some need of his other than that. That he is happy and content. But I can't believe that it could be for a life-long situation. Eventually, there's got to be an end to it. And I - I can't understand how come - is it (inaudible 0:24:22.6).


But we have - I think another problem is that we don't seem to always communicate on the same plane. He always looks at things from a deeper perspective than I do because of the field that he's in. Everything is - there's a psychological reason for everything. And I'm sure this is true. But it's like he's always analyzing all my friends. They have this problem and this hang up and they're playing this game, and all that. And the situation is right here. And he can't see it. And that bothers me too because I have tried to talk to him about it. And he has said, "Well, I don't feel that you should talk to me about some of those things because it's stuff I don't want to hear."


COUNSELOR: Something about the situation that's happening right now, you mean?


PATIENT: Well, not necessarily. But I particularly say that it would be an example. Like, what I just told you about having the affair. It would be alright for me to tell you but not him. Well, I can understand that level of thinking because all it would do would hurt and not accomplish anything. But personal feelings that - I mean, he'll just let me go so far and then he cuts me off. 


COUNSELOR: And I didn't get that though. Now why does he do that?


PATIENT: Because he feels that I'm going too deep into my own personal feelings or maybe experiences about things that I have with sex and that, that he doesn't want to hear about. It's about me and he doesn't want to know it. And yet, it's very peculiar. Now, before we got married, like, he had sex with many, many girls. And talked about it freely all the time, like, this one or that one. I stood there and I listened, you know? And I don't get that upset about it because I feel it's something that happened before. But I think maybe that that's another reason why we're at where we're at today.


COUNSELOR: But - let me go back a little. It sounds like you - you resent that a little. Like he's cutting you off. When he does it, why shouldn't you be able to do it?


PATIENT: I do. Right. I do resent it because I feel like he can talk about his - his interests, things he did as a young man. But I - I can't talk about anything I did. And I think that this is wrong. It bothers me to have to sit and listen to all his past experiences and not talk about anything that happened to me.


COUNSELOR: Yes. Like it's one sided. And that makes you angry.


PATIENT: And I - and in a way, I have feeling there to - perhaps the reason that it is the way it is with us too is that he did have so many relationships before we got married. And of course, none of them we long lasting because they never developed into a marriage. So therefore, all the excitement was high. It was great and fun. But then, when it died away, it was no more. And I feel that's the way it's happened with us. It's a goal accomplished. And once accomplished, it didn't mean anything anymore.


COUNSELOR: It's sort of like he really doesn't care about you? Now that he's got you, he can just go walk and do something else. (0:28:43.7)


PATIENT: No. I'm not - yes and no. I mean, like, I think - I don't feel it - it's like he hasn't a (inaudible 0:28:51.2). But it's like he's reached a plateau of contentment, I think. Where it just - when we got married, he made a very funny statement to me along those lines about how he felt that his manhood had been cut off because he was married now. And I said, "Well, you know, you really - that's an extraneous (ph) remark when you get married because you should feel like your life is just beginning. And you had your fun and your excitement. And now you are going into a different part of your life. And you shouldn't feel as though I'm type of castrating force that's come down on you. Instead, now you're no longer a free agent." And I think that this has just always bothered him. Even though he claims now that he's gotten over that initial shock.


COUNSELOR: But you don't believe it, right?


PATIENT: Well when we first got married I - I really enjoy having sex with him. And I - I feel that I was definitely the aggressor. I was promoting the love making. And it was like umm on his part. Because he claimed that he was still in this state of restriction, or feeling like his life had come to an end. And that was, I think, really the turning point right there. But I don't think either of it realized it.


COUNSELOR: So was it then that you sort of wanted to act with that or you were envy or hurt or  - ?


PATIENT: Well I was hurt because there were times when I really would - had reached a very passionate point. And I wanted to make love. And just be like a young married couple, just really enjoying it, or like it was before we were married. And it wasn't there anymore. And then that's when it reached the - well this is probably seven or eight months after we were married that I started to taper off. And my indifference started to grow. And I really didn't feel about it anymore.


COUNSELOR: Yes. So does he - it was like you were really happy and ready to go but then he's not responding? And on top of that he's telling you it's your fault?


PATIENT: Indirectly, yes, I think so. He was without saying it in so many words. This was the feeling I had. I don't - I don't really know where to go from here. I mean, I just - I feel like I - I've told you the basic problem. And I don't know how to answer it. I don't know where the solution is at, if there is one. (0:32:09.7)


COUNSELOR: Yes. You're just locked in that relationship. 


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: My feeling about that is that we have to just keep talking and see what we can pull out of your experiences now that will help find the solution.


PATIENT: Well I - can I talk about when I was younger and I had a lot of problems with sex and that?


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: I - this is (inaudible 0:32:43.6) before (inaudible 0:32:46.4). And I think it was really the - the time in my life when I needed something that I didn't - that I never got. And I had - I developed at a very early age, like, nine years old. And I started menstruating when I was eleven. And I went to a Catholic school. And I don't know if girls in Catholic school are small or what, but I was all of a sudden there and no one else was. And it was terrible. It was a very bad experience. And my mother really handled it very poorly. (0:33:31.0)


And I was, like, some kind of a joke to all of the boys because I was different that all the girls where. And on top of that, I was very heavy. So I was very conscious of not only the - the sexual part of my body, the changes there, but in my own physical appearance just in the (inaudible 0:33:57.6). And put in your little - that I - I think I tried to become like one of boys because I wanted to identify with the male rather than the female. Because I was so different than all my female friends. And unfortunately, it wasn't taken that way. It was like they - I was like - I don't know the word I would use - but they, like, they treated me in so many ways. They made fun of me. They made jokes. And I went along with it because I thought that that was how you were supposed to be popular. And one night, there was a church doing and this boy, who was about four or five years old than myself, took me into a classroom that was all dirty and dark and everything and he petted and everything. I was so embarrassed and really felt terrible. And I remember getting very sick afterwards. And who are going to tell a story like that to. And it just was something that I - I - I - it didn't - I don't know what it was, but it fascinated me and yet it bothered me at the same time. 


COUNSELOR: And now, in essence, it fell on you. I mean, you couldn't tell anybody.


PATIENT: No, I couldn't tell anybody. And I never did tell anybody. It was just something that I just pushed to the back of my mind. And it happened one time after that. And then, all through high school, I would never let anybody touch me or come anywhere near me. I became to the opposite extreme. And it was like a defense mechanism for me. I thought that, if I kept myself pure and holy then, it would make up for what I had done when I was 11 years old. And it lasted until I was, like, 16. And then, meeting someone and you think you love them. And then, it changes. (0:36:26.5)


But all through that period of time, I was very - really frigid and cold towards all - all males. I wanted no part of them. And sort of - well I would go out but I always would set myself up on that purity, pedestal stone. And then, it's like once - I dated some around 18 years, you know, the chain was broken. It seemed like I could have a basically normal relationship with anyone I went out with. But I would always just let it go so far and then I would cut it off. Until I met my husband. And then, let myself go all the way.


But I never really could trust anybody. I always had a feeling that they would betray me. Or that they were going to tell someone else. Or that my mother would find out. And it was funny because my mother always accused me of going to bed anyway. So I'm sure if she found out anything that I really had done, it probably would have really (to mined).


But I never could talk to my mother about anything that ever happened to me. And it's funny, because she knows a little bit about what's going on now. And she can't understand it. 


COUNSELOR: If I get it, it's like all those years, there were some shameful things that were happening and some - sometimes you felt like you were - there was something wrong with you or something. But there was never anyone to share that with. (0:38:24.3)


PATIENT: Right. I never had any really great feelings about sex in any form. Any - any sexual activity that I'd ever participated in with someone or alone, I'd always - it's always resulted in extreme guilt feelings. And I think it's - the case is true with my husband (inaudible 0:38:49.7). I never feel totally relaxed and satisfied. Maybe for an hour or two hours, but then the feelings of guilt always come in.


COUNSELOR: What is that like? What's it like, what if somebody finds or  - ?


PATIENT: What if somebody found out or what it - you know I just can't explain it. It's a feeling about myself. I feel dirty all over. I have this feeling that - I - I didn't even want to talk about it. I never talk about - I have never talked about any relationship I've had with anyone to anyone. I really stir clear of any sexual topics, even with the very closest friends. You know, they'll talk about maybe something that their husband and they did. They'll make a joke out of it or something. And I'll sit there and laugh but I'll never come back with anything about myself.


COUNSELOR: That's something people should no about?


PATIENT: No, it's something that I want to be identified with. I will die to be identified with anything sexual. And yet it's like a completely worse because when I did meet someone or allow someone, I like to think of myself as being sexual attractive. And that - it's like such a complete opposite to me, how I can feel one way most of the time, and then break down when it comes - maybe that's why it bothers me so much. Because I've always had the fear that, if I ever would really let myself go, that I could be very (inaudible 0:40:53.9). And I think that's why bothers me more than anything. So I keep up this rigid defense because I don't want to leave anyone with the wrong impression, so to speak. (0:41:06.9)


COUNSELOR: Yes. Sort of like you're always saying, "I am not a sexual person," to the world. So if you say...


PATIENT: Yes. And so far, it's worked really. I think that's why I was so frightened about what I did because I felt like I had really let myself down. And I have become - now, I'm worse than I was before because I really can't even feel relaxed in his company anymore. Because I keep thinking that if I just have one drink too many or something, it'll go and I'll seek out someone else.


COUNSELOR: You just can't control it? No (inaudible 0:41:55.3). 


PATIENT: No. No control at all over it. And we - we can't - or I can't really say that - it doesn't happen with everyone. I mean, I'm not attracted to everyone who walks by in pants. But there are just those certain people that aren't in common. Or if someone would pay any particular amount of attention to me, then I could be swayed. 


And we - it's funny. We have two friends - two very close friends who are both - they're homosexuals. And they live together. And we have a very close relationship with them. And it's - it always drives people funny that - who don't know about them, how I could enjoy going out with three men all the time. But I think I find some type of satisfaction from it without getting involved by - they're no threat to me. Like, I could goof around and be, like, teasing or something. But I wouldn't have to worry about anything ever going any farther. And I think that's one reason why I've encouraged this relationship with them so much. And we do so much with them. Because I always feel like, I mean, unsafe ground. And I don't really care to be in the company of a lot of women. I don't - I think it's that women are a threat to me. I always feel like, if I get too friendly with a woman, that I might be tempted to talk too much or that she will see something in me that I don't want anyone to see. Where I feel that, with men, you don't have this worry. They - not being as (inaudible 0:44:32.4) like a women are. And I have one close friend, who no longer lives around here. But even with her, I was never that open. (0:44:47.7)


COUNSELOR: Yes. So let me see I get that. It's like, with men, it's like a sexual thing there you're always holding back. With women, it's the same kind of holding back but just it's - because it's not - there's not a chance that you would get asked out there?


PATIENT: Right. It's - and I think that it's other things. I feel that I - I don't know if - if jealousy is the word I want to use. It's like they - they might attract attention that I would get. It's something like that. I really have always craved a certain amount of attention. And I think it's because I was always a very insecure person in a lot of ways. And I felt - it wasn't that I needed to feel that my parents loved me. But I didn't have a close relationship with them. I couldn't be affectionate towards them. I could never kiss them and hold good bye. I do it now because I'm married and I don't live with them. But the feeling isn't there. I mean, it's like I - I do it because you're supposed to do it. But I don't have the feeling behind it. And always looked other places for that satisfaction that I didn't get at home. Maybe it was because I was an only child. And my mother doted on me. Not materially, but was always afraid that something was going to happen to me or that I'd get hurt or that I would leave home or something. It was always that over protective and...


COUNSELOR: It was like sort of never giving you anything really...


PATIENT: No. It was like you went places and you do things with them, but that was because you were treated - couldn't do anything else. And then, as they grew older, I became more defensive with them and battled them every step of the way. And I don't think I ever did anything intentionally to hurt them. But it was my way of getting back by staying out all night. Then, we'd get in a fight and I could yell and scream. But I always thought that - that it's your doing. (0:47:57.8) 


And I think that when I got married, I expected, like, everything to be that - satisfied. And everything was going to be okay. And it didn't always happen that way.


COUNSELOR: Then you would get the attention and you'd get the one for real. You would feel secure.


PATIENT: Uh-huh. And in some ways, I do. I mean, I feel like I have a very secure position. In fact, sometimes I become very panic-stricken, wondering what would ever happen if I lost it. Where would I go? Who would I turn to? And then, this frightens me too because I wonder if that's why I'm clinging to my marriage, because I feel like, if it fell apart, I would be totally lost. And I - I haven't really been afraid of becoming close with my husband. But I don't want to - I think I've always fought being close with my parents because I don't want to accept the fact that they're not going to be here. I get hung up on death all the time. And I know - I - I feel that, if I'm not that close with them and then they die, I won't be affected by it so much. And so I've taken a very stand-offish position towards them. And as the older I've gotten, the worst it's gotten. Because I feel that they're getting older too. And it's eventually going to come to me.


COUNSELOR: Protecting yourself for the time you'll be all alone?


PATIENT: Uh-huh. Because while deep down I know that they really are the only ones that I have besides my husband. And I don't have that close attachment with his family, although, we get along well. But there's - there's just note the same feeling. (0:50:33.6)


COUNSELOR: Yes. So it is pretty lonely. And if you lost him, then there would be nothing, right?


PATIENT: And I - this is really kind of changing the subject. But I should have mentioned this early. In our relationship to one another, his - his relationship with his mother is very poor. And I often feel that sometimes unconsciously he's putting on the level with her. Like she had - had a drinking problem for a long time. And as a child, he came home and found men in the house and this sort of thing. And if he didn't have - have a childhood and didn't have being - the fulfillment of a mother, what he felt the mother should be. And I often feel that I'm being a beautiful mother substitute. Because she never prepared regular meals, never got up with the kids for school. And when we got married, I get up and I fix breakfast every day. And it's always been there. If I'm not there, there's still dinner. And he always did his own washing and ironing. And all of a sudden, you know, he has a mother. You know what I mean? And I often feel that this is what I am.


COUNSELOR: Somehow he doesn't appreciate what you are. It has to be somebody else in (inaudible 0:52:37.8)?


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: You just make him comfortable and that's all he wished for.


PATIENT: That's sort of the feeling I have. Because it's like I'm satisfying things for him that he never enjoyed as a child. And also, like, about anything that I would do, like, maybe having too much to drink or something, I always feel that he's comparing me. Somewhere in his mind just, "God, I hope that she doesn't turn out my mother." I think that's another reason why the sexual thing has been bothering me so much. Because I feel like it would be a crushing blow if he thought that he married someone who (inaudible due to background noise 0:53:38.7).


COUNSELOR: Yes I see. You would be better than that.


PATIENT: Totally, all the way around there, just a different type of person completely.


COUNSELOR: What's (kind of making you smile?) I mean, what is that? I'm missing that.


PATIENT: What - totally? Well, because I don't feel that I measure up. I don't feel like I ever have - have measured up. Because I do have faults just like every one. And I don't enjoy being criticized for everything little wrong thing I do, which is what happens most of the time. I mean, really stupid things - that should be coming out of this. And I just get to the point where I just want to say, "Shut up. It's not that important. I don't care." It's really - it - it makes me laugh because I am - sounds like my mother sometimes. Because she all - everything - everything always has to be done right now. And you didn't do it right now, tomorrow was too late. And it was about everything. And I'm just not regimented that way. I can't stay that organizational, to take the time to make a list. Do this and that. I'm not that type of person. (0:55:22.8)


COUNSELOR: So, like, constantly coming down on you and putting you down and hurting your feelings.


PATIENT: And just about to (inaudible 0:55:30.5), everything is back to normal, then something else pops up. And it's affecting our world yet again. It's over and over and over. It never stops.


Like one day, he may say - well, I've been about the last - well, recently I've been very, very depressed. And I've been doing all kinds of weird things, like composing suicide notes and all that, which I really know that I could never be strong enough to do anything like that. But I felt - one night and I told him all of this. And he (became very offended.) "And what I do without you? And who would want me? And just go to sleep." And it really pulled me back together. Because he was very sincere. And I felt it. I mean there was no question in my mind that he wasn't meaning everything he was saying. And then, like, a day later, so the stuff all starts in all over again. I keep thinking I shouldn't be so biddy about it because there's - I mean, this is his fault. My fault is being an (inaudible 0:56:58.7). And here he's being critical.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible 0:56:59.9).


PATIENT: And I'm sure that I irked him as much as he irks me at times. But I can't stop thinking about it. I mean, if - if I was totally satisfied with that answer, it wouldn't bother me. But it does mother me. 


COUNSELOR: If you - I mean, if you believe you're totally satisfied with him?


PATIENT: Well as - if I mean, I was really satisfied with the idea that, well, this is the way he is. And I love him. And that's it. But I can't - I can't accept that.


COUNSELOR: Yes. You'd like to believe it. But it still gets to you when he criticizes you.


PATIENT: Uh-huh. Because like I said before, it's just like he's my mother. I can close my eyes and I can see her standing there, hounding me about every little thing. And my father was a perfectionist about everything. He'd never go to bed at night and lay your clothes on the chair, you hang them up. And you need to get your car checked every 2,000 miles. And you pay you bills on time. And I used to get big lectures about budgeting and all this at home. And it's like I swapped an intense situation into another that are exactly the same in many respects. (0:58:33.2)


COUNSELOR: Yes. I'm hearing two things there. One is that you just don't like people on your back all the time.


PATIENT: Uh-huh.


COUNSELOR: And the other is why can't they just take you like you are? I mean, why do they hurt your feelings all the time like that? Like they see you and respect you or something like that? (0:58:51.3)


PATIENT: You know, I really - I think it's - I guess maybe it is because I have - I - because I have the genes from the other two (inaudible 0:59:00.5) people, you know. I don't really care what people do with themselves. And I don't know why everybody cares what I do. It's like - and I - well it' like - it's not the same. I keep telling myself that too. Because he does this to his mother. He does it to his sister and to his brother. And they - they get angry too. But they don't live that. And it's different.


COUNSELOR: And you're stuck with, how do I live with that?


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: You know, even if it isn't aimed at me personally.


PATIENT: And I - I was very - Always an argument of - I defend myself at all when we first go married. I would never - if something happened like that, I would just go off in the corner and cry or pout, whatever I was feeling then. And I really don't know what caused the change, but I became very - I - well I yelled - I do get loud now. And I throw things around. I'm kind of becoming something that I never way before. I don't know. Maybe it's good that - that I get it out of me. But I - I don't - I don't feel that - well in a way, it helps the situation because it wasn't, like - because he always had the temper and the power drives. Because I don't care for that either. 


But now - and - but it has created other problems because now he says something, and I say something, and we both end up screaming and yelling. And no one is given the chance to - all of a sudden, now, we've reached a point where things are being said, and then that being understood the way they're being said. And then, another argument branches off from that. And then, I don't think it's every really explained or anything why it was said. 


COUNSELOR: So communication is really breaking down? (1:01:52.7)


PATIENT: Uh-huh. And it's - it's funny. You keep thinking how things are going to change when something in your life changes. Like, for two years, he was in law school, so I let of this ride over because I kept thinking, "Well, he's got these pressures in his mind and running his (inaudible due to background noise 1:02:24.9). And - but when he (inaudible due to background noise 1:02:29.3) everything was all right. But it wasn't. Everything should be all right. But that was the problem. That was the problem.


COUNSELOR: This has been going on for a long time.


PATIENT: And I also quit. And I thought it would be better when we (inaudible due to background noise 1:02:54.5) it. And it wasn't. It's not. And it's just - we've reached the point now where - I don't know. I don't know what's going to happen.


COUNSELOR: Time to stop. Do you want to come once a week or how often? That's up to you. If you feel comfortable, come twice a week. Some people come once. Some people come once every two weeks.


PATIENT: Well what - you know, is there anything - I mean, is there any way that's better than...


COUNSELOR: My feeling is that - that it's up to you and the way you feel. Because it's yourself. I mean, some people don't have anything to talk about every two weeks. And some people, when they're upset, like to come twice a week. You know, it just depends on where you're at.


PATIENT: I think once a week would be right, I mean, for a while. I don't know if - if I'll have that much to talk about (inaudible 1:04:20.6).


COUNSELOR: Well we can see how it works.


PATIENT: All right. I'll try it - we'll try it next week and I'll see what happens. I - I was going to ask you, is there any possibility that you could take me later? Or do you want, you know...


COUNSELOR: That's the trouble. I have - you wanted to come at 6:00. And I - I don't have any 6:00 times. They're all taken.


PATIENT: Do you have anything later? Or would it have to be earlier?


COUNSELOR: Now, if I could find my book (inaudible 1:04:59.6). It seems to have disappeared at the moment. You need - let's see. How about between 3:00 &amp; 4:00? Is that - that's still the same problem?


PATIENT: See it's just that I don't have a car during the day. And it's going to cost me $4.00 to get up here.


COUNSELOR: That's bad.


PATIENT: Once a week. And see, my husband gets home about 5:00. And (inaudible 1:05:53.2), I can't always get here. And we - he is going to try to get his session on Thursday night also. And he thought maybe we need to come together.


COUNSELOR: Thursday night. No. Could - I could do it from 6 &amp; 7. I'll have to try that at. I'm not sure what kind of shape I'll be in by that time of night.


PATIENT: Well all right. I'll try it one time and see if, you know, if it's all right with you, then okay. Otherwise, I'll just have to come during the day then.


COUNSELOR: Well there's also Friday from 6:00 to 7:00, slightly day. But the trouble is the patient that comes, doesn't always come at 5:00. And I can't predict the traffic. But (inaudible 1:06:57.7).


PATIENT: Yes, well let's try that and see what happens.


COUNSELOR: All right. Because I - there isn't any other alternative.


PATIENT: All right, like I said, if I can't come the other way, then I just will. There's all there is to it then. It would be better financially if I could come in the evening.


COUNSELOR: Right. I can sure understand that. $4.00 is a little drain. How do you spell your last name?


PATIENT: Polanski.


COUNSELOR: Could be (inaudible 1:07:39.2). Poll... Oh I know. Another thing you could do is - well no. That wouldn't work all the time. I was thinking, one of my classes is coming in for two weeks. But you don't - you would want to come once a week. So that wouldn't work. That way, you could come from 5:00 to 6:00 and we could do it then. That may work.


PATIENT: Well I could come in the other the week. You mean that I would come in on the (inaudible 1:08:14.4) - that he wasn't here?


COUNSELOR: But let's try this.


PATIENT: All right.


(Interruption due to telephone call.)


PATIENT: I think I can survive.


COUNSELOR: Okay. And that'll be (inaudible 1:08:47.9). That goes in a box, downstairs and through the reception. It's a little gray cardboard box. You can slide it in.


PATIENT: All right.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: All right, thank you.


COUNSELOR: Session number two on the 8th.


END TRANSCRIPT
