TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is the 18th interview. This is the 18th interview. 
CLIENT: What a b**ch!
COUNSELOR: Who's really a b**ch?
CLIENT: Oh everything. Everything is really a b**ch.
COUNSELOR: What happened?
CLIENT: Oh just all sorts of things. I'm just in one of my shi**y moods. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:00:25.5)
CLIENT: Oh I don't know. I don't know if it's a combination of a lot of things. Really. Well last night I came home from work. And it was really bad at work. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:00:42.1)
CLIENT: I don't know. It's just getting worse. And I'm taking tomorrow off. I just had to. There was no way that I could stick around there for another day. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's getting to the point that you can't even do anything or say anything to them.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: More or less killing them. It's not worth going to jail. (Laughs) Really bad. Really bad. I mean before you always had something. They would listen to you. (Chuckling) But now it's they don't care. And I don't care. And we all should be saying goodbye. Which would be nice. But at any rate when I came home I was really beat. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: They've been winning for the past three days. 
COUNSELOR: Three days in a row. 
CLIENT: Oh just too much to take for their side. 
COUNSELOR: For their side. 
CLIENT: And this is like wow I can't. So looking for matches. I went home and immediately went to bed. Like yesterday. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It was even a restless sleep. I remember-did you ever get up in the middle of the day and think it's morning and you should be up? And looking at the clock and saying wow. Well that's the kind of sleep it was. It was really unbelievable. [0:02:13.2]
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like it wasn't even worthwhile.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:02:15.5)
CLIENT: Like it was-
COUNSELOR: Being kind of frazzled feeling while you're sleeping too.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was. It really was. It was really bad. So then oh about six o'clock or something Tanya called. And she said, "Oh do you want to do something?" And I said, "No not really." I said, "I just really don't feel like it." 
COUNSELOR: This was last night?
CLIENT: Yeah. I said, "I got my report cards to do. Card x's and all that sh*t." And she said, "Oh." And I said, "Oh do you really feel like - " Oh I said, "How was the baseball game?" She went to a baseball game.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: That the high school was playing. She said, "Oh it was fine. We won." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I said, "Oh you know. Where you at?" She said, "Well I'm at school." I said, "Oh. If you want you can come over and help me do our report cards." So she said she would. Because school wasn't that far away. So she came by. And we went out and got something to eat. And then came back and did the report cards and everything like that. But then after we got finished doing the report cards it went through my mind that well she wants to go to bed. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I said, "Well it's really not such a bad idea." And I said, "Well okay." So at any rate as we went to bed and I failed like about three times-you know three strikes and you're out. So she was about to go and we started making love again. And nothing works. So then I was like really frustrated. Just really to the point where I just was about to scream. So I said, "Oh okay. Let's go. I'll walk you out to the car." And she said, "No. I don't want to go now." I said, "Come on let's go." And she said, "No I want to stay and get myself together." Something like this. And she said, "Why do you want me to go?" And I said, "I'd just like to be alone." Well she really got pissed. Really got pissed. [0:04:30.6]
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And she said, "Well why do you want to be alone?" And I said, "Just because. I'd like to be alone please." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's like I was getting to the point where I was going to usher her out the door. 
COUNSELOR: Was that kind of feeling like you really felt awful and didn't want anyone around?
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: Feeling so bad. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. I just said, "Goodbye." So at any rate she was about to leave and I kissed her goodnight. And I said, "Would you please try to understand?" And she says, "I can't understand." And she slams the door and goes off. So at any rate I was sitting there just thinking about the whole thing. And I thought to myself, "Well I don't know if it was really right to say I wanted to be alone or not, but I really did."
COUNSELOR: You said what you felt.
CLIENT: Yeah right. I said I wanted to be alone. So then I thought to myself, "Well she'll call back anyway." And she did. Which is really kind of being very presumptuous on my part but I just knew she would. And she did. And she said that she was sorry that she got all mad and upset. And she says, "When you're really feeling that way, you should never be alone. You should try to work it out. And love is about two people trying to solve things together." And stuff like that. And I said, "Yes I realize that." And she says, "Well you're going to go-if you're alone you go within yourself more. And you don't need this." And I said, "I know. All I wanted to do was be alone." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I just kind of like more or less agreed with her. About the whole thing. But it was just like really bad. And the whole day, like even today, just reflected of how last night-
COUNSELOR: Kind of like that-
CLIENT:  - it just carried over. 
COUNSELOR:  - really last night it just made you really feel, I guess when you say three strikes and you're out, really down. Really (Inaudible at 0:06:25.8)
CLIENT: Yeah. Really. Like it was the most frustrating thing I'd ever experienced. 
COUNSELOR: Was it just frustrating or did it also just make you feel really miserable? (Inaudible at 0:06:33.3) too?
CLIENT: Yeah. Miserable. And I could feel myself that I wasn't relaxed. And I really knew. Because like now I could feel like tightened up in my arms and my legs. You're just all tense. [0:06:44.7]
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And you could really feel yourself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you feel tense now and you really felt tense (Inaudible at 0:06:49.7).
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah. And I said I could feel myself. I'm not relaxed. And I can feel myself being all tense. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I said I have to go back to taking a tranquilizer again or something. (Chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I could just really feel myself being just tensed up inside.
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's kind of like when you're just feeling so bad about everything, then you can just-while it was happening each time feeling worse and worse and getting more tense. (Inaudible at 0:07:18.0)
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah. It was just unbelievable. It was just unbelievable. It was just, oh. And I tried to take my mind off of being tense and be relaxed. And I even started praying. Which I thought was unbelievable. 
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Kind of like you're trying to do anything.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Just going to the extreme. I don't know what made me start praying. I was just lying there and I was praying. Just trying to relax and just started to pray. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It was really it was just unbelievable. I don't know it was just really weird. And Tanya said-I said, "I just feel like throwing in the rag and giving up." And she said, "What do you mean?" The first thing that popped into my mind was, I said, "Oh I should go out and become a [travis] monk and be celibate." (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which I really couldn't hack. But I thought it was a good idea at the time. (Chuckling) 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It was just really unbelievable. And the whole thing is I just knew that I wasn't relaxing. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like wow. I just knew it. It was right there. I really knew what was the whole problem. And I couldn't do a damn thing about it. Not a damn thing about it.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Yeah. Just all you could do is kind of just feel how it was kind of overtaking you.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:08:42.9)
CLIENT: Well like, and then I thought to myself, "What the hell am I trying?" What the hell was I trying for? 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: If I knew I was so tense. I should've realized. Like wow. [0:08:52.2]
COUNSELOR: Did you feel then-did you want to? Did you do it because it was an obligation? 
CLIENT: Well yeah in a way I did. After a while it got to the point where it was an obligation. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:08:58.0) Yeah it's like I have to do it to show myself and her that I can do it.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Yeah right. Yeah. After awhile, then it got to the point where it was an obligation.
COUNSELOR: That certainly makes it harder then. 
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Really. It was unbelievable. [Do you have] (ph) anything that could loosen me up? (Chuckles) Anything. It was really bad. I have to find a yoga class or something. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's just I can really see how you feel like there are just sometimes-
CLIENT: Just ugh. Just I really-just unbelievable. And of course it got worse instead of better.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: In fact I woke up with a headache. I thought, "Oh wow. This is too much." Really bad. Really bad. I was thinking I shouldn't even have bothered it and I thought to myself, "Oh my God. I shouldn't even go to work today." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's like I just felt-oh because it will just make it worse and make me feel worse. Because there are just sometimes when it's better not to be there. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But I didn't have any lesson plans prepared. Or there was things I had to do. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah I really. Yeah I sense that you just wanted to give up everything. [0:10:52.6]
CLIENT: I just didn't-I really just felt like just relax. 
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you feel all these pressures on you right now. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (Inaudible at 0:11:42.8) The least little thing the kids do I just jump on them. (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Really feel like you-
CLIENT: Yeah. I almost lost my voice today. Yelling. I never did that. 
COUNSELOR: You were really getting mad?
CLIENT: Yeah right. Just really, Oh God. It's unbelievable. I kept about four of them until about twenty till four. (Chuckles) I've never done that before. Not that I was kind of-at least when I went to work I kept my mind off of everything else. But then I thought to myself, "You have to face up to it. Okay you can face up to it. All right you know you can't relax. Okay what are you going to do about it?" [0:13:13.3]
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Well I don't know what to do about it. Because it's like you've arrived at the conclusion you know what the problem is and you say to yourself, "Now okay what are you going to do about?" 
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's like you know that it's because you're so tense but you can't (Inaudible at 0:13:23.1). 
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:13:26.8) not to be. 
CLIENT: Then I don't know what to do about it. I really don't. It's just like reaching a blank wall.
COUNSELOR: Yeah and it feels like, kind of desperate too. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: I'm just feeling so tense and so overwhelmed.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just unbelievable.
COUNSELOR: Really want to really try to break out. And just kind of feel peaceful.
CLIENT: Yeah right. 
COUNSELOR: And tranquil.
CLIENT: Right. Right. Right. It's always something else. Even this is driving me crazy. (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Even what?
CLIENT: The silence. 
COUNSELOR: Makes you feel more tense?
CLIENT: Really. Why is so dark-oh you got the blinds. [0:14:56.2]
COUNSELOR: The light's off. 
CLIENT: Oh that's right. (Chuckles) Mm. 
COUNSELOR: Sometimes I guess when I feel chaotic I turn the lights off because it just makes it a little softer or something. 
CLIENT: (chuckles) That's true. That's true. [I never thought of it.] (ph) It's an idea. Keep the lights off all day. (Chuckling) 
COUNSELOR: I sense that it's not just tense it's really depressed too.
CLIENT: Yeah right. It is. 
COUNSELOR: How does that feel? I mean what does it make you feel like? 
CLIENT: Oh I don't know. Just really-I don't know. It's just really weird. 
COUNSELOR: I mean does it-
CLIENT: It's like I'm feeling depressed and then like feeling depressed about not being able to have sex. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And then like to the point where you don't want to give up trying. (Laughs) 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But if you're going to try you're going to think about it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like really caught in a bind. 
CLIENT: Yeah like really kind of caught there. 
COUNSELOR: It's almost kind of like you want to try but you think you might worry about it.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And kind of like, does it kind of make you feel like everything seems really bleak and there's no hope?
CLIENT: Yeah right. As far as that's concerned. It's just-
COUNSELOR: Like you'll never be able to just have sex.
CLIENT: Relax. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Relax about it and not not be able to have sex. [0:16:59.2]
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like it's always going to be this way.
CLIENT: Yeah. But like thinking and then like you really need sex. All the worrying in the world isn't going to hinder you from having sex. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So it takes that amount of time. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But like it's just-like last night I could've, pfft, took it or leave it. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:17:55.3) feel like you needed it.
CLIENT: Yeah. It really didn't make that much difference to me.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: If really if I had. Take it or leave it. Really. Didn't make that much difference at all. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but it's kind of like, I guess you feel like you just don't want to have sex when you feel really kind of-
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It's like because it's been a long time you want to be able to have it, be able to have it every so often.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: And not get caught up in the problem of not finding yourself able to have an erection. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Really. I always heard that Virgos weren't the sexiest people around. (Laughs) [0:19:11.5]
COUNSELOR: Who?
CLIENT: You know if you're born under the sign of Virgo. 
COUNSELOR: Oh. 
CLIENT: And I thought, "Wow." That's true. That's true. I was thinking of this problem. When are you going to arise? Really weren't even half arisen. I would've just said, "You know I don't feel like having sex." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It just (snaps fingers), nothing would've happened.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like-
CLIENT: But like you said, it turned into an obligation.
COUNSELOR: Yeah you would've felt not great but at least just having failed three times just made you feel really awkward.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Right. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Afterwards.
CLIENT: It would've been just so much better if I'd just said, "No that's it. Sorry." Which I should've done. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: If there was a question mark in my head that's what I should've said.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of I guess you feel like you know yourself best. But I guess what you're saying is that if I don't really feel like it I know it's not going to work out.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Right.
COUNSELOR: When I do really feel like it, it does. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Oh. That Beth is really sweet. (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Downstairs?
CLIENT: Yeah. She's really sweet. And bright spot in my day. She really is. She doesn't have (audio loss at 0:21:19.2). She gets out of here, right? [0:21:22.0] 
I went over looking (audio loss at 0:21:43.1 until 0:21:46.1). Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Did you try the different floors?
CLIENT: Yeah. Went through all the floors. (Audio loss at 0:21:50.2 to 0:21:57.5).
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: Like (Audio loss at 0:21:58.6 to 0:22:08.8) down narrow. (Audio loss at 0:22:09.5 to 0:22:20.2)
COUNSELOR: Yeah it kind of built another end up. (Audio loss at 0:22:22.1 to 0:22:31.9) Took them long enough to build it. (Audio loss at 0:22:34.1 to 0:22:43.2) It's a new map. (Inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah. Just looking they had two stairways. And the johns. And all these things took up so much room. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah right. (Audio loss at 0:22:52.9 to 0:22:54.1)
CLIENT: (Inaudible) There really weren't that many offices in the whole thing. And I thought, "Wow." Seems to be kind of a waste.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible) (Audio loss at 0:23:03.9 to 0:23:05.8)
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:23:06.0) 
CLIENT: I saw a picture of Mrs. [Bellter] in the foyer. (Laughs) She's a dog. [0:23:14.6]
(Audio loss at 0:23:15.3 to 0:23:17.2) The picture of the big old lady. Wow. There's a Mrs. Bailey. The other one wasn't labeled. Must be Mrs. Bailey and Mrs. Lowe. (Audio loss at 0:23:26.6 to 0:23:28.5) And they looked very old as if they walked out of Victorian or something.
COUNSELOR: Yeah well these buildings (audio loss at 0:23:38.0 to 0:23:39.7) was built a real long time ago.
CLIENT: Oh I see. 
COUNSELOR: What they did was-I think the building is probably about 50 years old. 
CLIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: It was named after them. And what they did is, they like to keep the old buildings up and not tear them down.
CLIENT: Yeah that's a good idea.
COUNSELOR: So what they do, because they like the gothic, they rip the insides out.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: That's much more expensive than building a whole new building. 
CLIENT: Yeah really.
COUNSELOR: Because it's like you have to be careful to keep the outsides up.
CLIENT: Yeah right. Right.
COUNSELOR: And what they did to this one is (Inaudible at 0:24:05.3). 
CLIENT: Mm. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible) buildings around here like that. It's strange. It's like old on the outside.
CLIENT: Outside yeah. (Chuckles) I wonder if the inside is that old or if they had to tear it out. Some of the insides are really kind of neat around here. 
COUNSELOR: Have you seen some of the old ones? Gothic looking ones with the carved (Inaudible at 0:24:41.0).
CLIENT: Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I think they're really kind of nice. (Inaudible) save them. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah they don't make them like they used to.
CLIENT: That's the truth. (Chuckles) Mm. I still think I'd rather live in a newer building than an older-an older building rather than a newer building anyway. Oh. [0:25:23.8]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: I was thinking that Tanya wanted me to stop by. I don't know (Inaudible at 0:25:31.3) today but I really don't want to go. So I'm not going to go. (Chuckles) 
COUNSELOR: Is that you feel tired or just don't want to see her?
CLIENT: Well both. Both. I just really don't want to go.
COUNSELOR: Yeah I guess the whole thing is like you're so upset about the sex business that you don't-it's like seeing Tanya reminds you.
CLIENT: Yeah right. I just don't want to go. I was trying to explain that to her too. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I said, "After you've been with-you've attempted to have intercourse with a woman three times and you couldn't, you really don't want to see her." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And she said she just couldn't understand that. I don't know. She was really pissed.
COUNSELOR: Well she understand-was she pissed that you couldn't have intercourse? Was that-
CLIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: That doesn't sound like what she was pissed about.
CLIENT: No no. She was pissed at because like I just wanted to be alone. That's what she was pissed at. I just wanted to be alone.
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like she took that as a rejection of her. 
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess she did. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I told her, I said-
COUNSELOR: I guess she didn't really understand it was because you were upset. (Inaudible at 0:26:42.9) taken from her.
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:26:45.4) whole thing. 
CLIENT: Yeah that's what I said. I said, "It's not-don't take it any reflection upon yourself. Because it isn't." I said, "It's more of a reflection upon me than you." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I said, "It's got nothing to do with you. It's not reflection upon you." And she said-I don't know what she said. I don't know. Like I said, this job at this time of year is really just so much. I can understand why teachers are alcoholics. (Chuckles) I think that someone made a survey and found that teachers out of all the professions drink more than anybody else. [0:27:53.1]
COUNSELOR: Mm. (Inaudible) this time of year it's like it's really bad. (Inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah really. Like you come in and you really don't have much for them to do. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: They start collecting books and sh*t like that. Just what do you do with them? You just can't sit there.
COUNSELOR: They're kind of done with everything you want to do with them?
CLIENT: Yeah well more or less. We've put our grades in and stuff like that. And they know it. And they just-and you give an assignment. And they won't even bother doing it. They won't even bother doing it. They just sit there and act a fool. It's funny this group that we have now-it's gotten to the point where I'll be glad to see them leave. I really will. And I never, like the other-I had two years. I've had three classrooms that I've seen leave. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: There's really a number of kids you were sorry to see leave. And you really liked them. This class this year is unbelievable. It's like it's been the same thing. Like since the fourth grade teachers. The fifth grade teachers. The sixth grade teachers. They've always said the same thing about this one group. That they're really-like you just can't get close to them. It's really-and I told them today. Oh I really felt bad after I told them. It was at the end of the day. And I was trying to get a lousy count. They wanted a count of the books.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And they've got textbooks all over. And some of them got them at home. And you're just trying to count up textbooks. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And they wouldn't shut up for nothing. It was just complete chaos. And I said, "Never have I ever been so glad to see a group leave." And I was serious. And they knew it. They just shut up like that. (Snaps fingers) I just said, "How immature and ignorant." Oh I just really felt bad after I said it. [0:29:57.0]
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because even if I feel something like this, something antagonistic toward a child you should never come out and say it. Christ. Oh. Mm. Then I thought to myself, "What could I say to them like Friday. Like I really didn't mean what I said." They'd know. They'd know. But I did express how I felt. (Laughs) At their expense. 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you really feel like just putting all the living kind of away. 
CLIENT: Right. Just forget it for awhile. 
COUNSELOR: Like nothing seems to make you-everything seems to make you feel worse.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I just feel sorry for the poor sub who's going to be in there tomorrow. (Chuckles) If they get one. God help them. (Inaudible) [0:32:32.6] 
I hate to think about what they're going to do to that poor man or woman. Whoever is in there. Oh. I was kind enough to leave enough work for him to give them but they won't do it. (Laughs) My friend Josh, the kid goes to the therapist. He (Inaudible at 0:33:24.9) he's really been doing swell for the past two days. 
COUNSELOR: Pardon?
CLIENT: That kid who went to the therapist.
COUNSELOR: He's been getting worse. 
CLIENT: Yeah he's really, like he's really been nice for the past two days. I thought, "Wow." Maybe after I did talk to her on the phone. Because he came in and says, "Can I move my seat?" And I said, "Anywhere you want." So he did. But he's really just (inaudible at 0:33:55.8). (Chuckles) It's really strange. And this other kid was living with his father. And his father remarried. And he had this thing against, like he just hated his father. But he was doing well in school at this point. His father used to beat him I guess. Or something like this. Like his father came up one time and beat him right on the playground.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: After (Inaudible at 0:34:24.8) talking to the father, and I told the father he really wasn't doing that bad. But (Inaudible). So I now think he's back with his mother. And it's just unbelievable. And he's gone completely haywire. And like he really has this thing against men. You can really tell. [0:34:48.3]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:34:57.6)
CLIENT: Yeah. Well there's only four more days left. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
CLIENT: And Friday the kids are having a party in the afternoon. So that won't be too bad. 
COUNSELOR: And they end on Tuesday.
CLIENT: Wednesday. I'm not going to be there tomorrow so I don't count it. (Laughs) They end on Wednesday. Then we have to come Thursday for record day. We always have our records done. Because we have to have them done because they move on to a different school. So we're all finished. And we don't do anything on record day except party ourselves. (Chuckles) And then on Friday they come back for like an hour or two and go home. It's really a waste keeping them in school. It really is. In fact I could never understand why they would want to have an all year round school. That would drive me up a wall. 
I was thinking. Like when school's out. There will really be a lot off my mind. I could really take time and relax. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's kind of like well God, I won't have to come in and face that. 
CLIENT: Yeah right. Not. 
COUNSELOR: Inferno everyday. 
CLIENT: Right. It'll just be like, it'll really be kind of nice. [0:36:55.2]
COUNSELOR: Are you just going to, what are you going to take those art courses?
CLIENT: Yeah take those art courses. That's about it. And then I was thinking. When I will be relaxed Tanya will be gone. (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: When is she leaving?
CLIENT: The day after school lets out. Like-
COUNSELOR: Next week.
CLIENT: Yeah. A week from Saturday she leaves. We get out the 25th and she leaves 26th. So you can't win any way you play it. (Laughs) 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:37:23.8) really the way you feel. 
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR: Losing.
CLIENT: Yeah like you lose all around. Just lose all around. I was just wondering how people can possibly live without pressure. Wouldn't it be grand? It keeps entering my mind that I ought to get out of this city. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Time to get away from the city.
CLIENT: And just move to a whole different type of thing. Oh. Kids in reading class wanted to have a discussion today. And I swear they have sex on their minds so much it's unreal. [0:39:19.4]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: It's just unbelievable. And I said, "Well what would you like to discuss?" And one kid found in the dictionary the word harlot. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And he called it, what did he call it? [Harlowt]. [Harlowt] he called it. [Harlowt]. I said, [harlowt], what's a [harlowt]?" And he showed it to me in the dictionary and I said, "Oh a harlot." And it said, "A bad woman. Prostitute." And I said, "Oh you want to talk about harlot." "Yes we want to talk about harlot." And I said, "Well I don't agree with the definition." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: "Myself. Because all prostitutes aren't bad women. Number one." So you know they were talking about prostitution. And they said-they were really interested. Just really interested. They were quiet too. They said they were really interested and they wanted to know-well what is a prostitute? Okay. And I said, "A woman who sells herself. And she gets paid for having men and stuff like this." And then they got into the syphilis and stuff like that. And how do you get syphilis. And all this stuff. And they were just really interested.
And then they were talking about the playboy bunnies. They presumed that all playboy bunnies were prostitutes.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I said, "Where did you get at that?" "Well you can just tell. They are." And they said, "She's posing naked in a magazine." And I said, "Well that doesn't mean she's a prostitute just because she's posing naked in a magazine." 
COUNSELOR: I guess they kind of think that this must be something similar to getting paid (Inaudible at 0:40:58.9). 
CLIENT: Yeah right. Right. 
COUNSELOR: Getting paid to go to bed.
CLIENT: Yeah. And they said, "Oh she's naked. And these women who work at the playboy club and they run around naked." And I said, "They're not naked at the playboy club." 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I said, "They've got like a costume on." I said, "It's like a bathing suit on. That's all." And they said, "Oh they're not prostitutes?" And I said, "No." (Chuckles) But they really-I said, "Don't ever accuse someone of being a prostitute unless you're really sure." (Chuckles) And this one kid said he lived on Maxwell Street. So he knew there was a house on the corner and you could see them standing out front. And I said, "Well." He said you just knew the way they were dressed and stuff like that. [0:41:44.0]
And I said, "Well you could arrive at-you could be kind of sure that they might've been prostitutes." And stuff like this. And he said they were selling a book for $300 that had the names, addresses and the telephone numbers of all the prostitutes around the whole world. (Laughing)
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I said, "For $300?" And I he said, "Yeah. And they charge $25 an hour." I said, "Kirk how do you know" And he said, "I just can't tell you." (Laughs) I thought oh my God. The concept that they have about the whole thing it's really something else. They said, "Well would a woman become a prostitute?" And I said, "Well to earn money. A lot of them are supporting a dope habit. And they have to have money. And they have to have it fast. A lot out there." 
COUNSELOR: [Tell them to support their husbands.] (ph)
CLIENT: Right. Right. It's the easiest thing for them to do. They talked about syphilis and stuff like this. And oh did they have to go see a doctor? And so yes, we always have to have regular check ups and stuff like that. And how does one get syphilis? They're really something else. One kid says, "What if the kid was about seven years old?" Or something like that. Could he get syphilis from having sex with somebody? I said, "I don't know. If the person he was having sex had syphilis he could contract the disease." And they said, "Oh how do you know you have syphilis?" They really had the wrong idea about the whole thing. (Laughs) Someone who poses naked in magazine or any other nudist colonies too that they all-Oh God. [0:43:50.5]
I thought well that's the big deal now. As far as for them to see a picture of a naked woman.
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's kind of like it's something new. And-
CLIENT: Yeah right.
COUNSELOR:  - and intriguing.
CLIENT: And this is what they would really think a big thing would be. (Inaudible at 0:44:11.5) had to be prostitution if they're going to pose in a magazine or something like that. That definition really bugged me though. A bad woman is a prostitute. (Inaudible at 0:44:24.3) ooh. (Laughs) I just felt like going and ripping the page out. (Chuckling) I was about to say that some prostitutes are really nice but then of course they would say how would you know? (Laughing) They're so gullible. Believe anything. 
One girl said she was on the beach. And this other girl said, "Oh yes. They were at the beach and they met this girl. And she said to them that they had to go to a special school. Her Dad sent her to a special school because they just couldn't keep her away from the boys. She made it in the vestibule. And she made it in the alley. And she made it at the beach." All this stuff. And I said, "Now don't go believing half that. She was just really trying to impress you or something." 
COUNSELOR: Time is about up.
CLIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible) [0:45:34.0] [end of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
