TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Interview number 18. I meant to ask you last, oh I guess I thought about it after last time, if you were going to work at the hospital with children if you would be interested in looking through this booklet?


PATIENT: I was about to ask you when I saw it on your desk if it's good because I think I would like to read it very much. Have you read it?


COUNSELOR: Yes, I read it some time ago and some of it's good and some of it's kind of that plant (ph) centered stuff at its yickiest. But, you know, the reflections that aren't very much of anything, but it is interesting. And, I guess, you're one of the first ones.


PATIENT: Yeah, I really am interested in it. I need to sit down and do a lot reading.


COUNSELOR: It's not that it's necessary to read before you do it. I was really scared when I started seeing children. It turned out there was no need for it, but I was just amazed at how shook I was.


PATIENT: Well, so far it's family (inaudible at 0:58). You start out with about four interviews just seeing the parents together and separate and separated. Finding out all about family background and then you see the kid or the kids in this case. The only family I got. I know (inaudible at 1:11) coming to the end of the interview in the past. The parents are easy compared to the... 


COUNSELOR: I just felt so much like I didn't know what their world was like anymore.


PATIENT: That's right.


COUNSELOR: It just really freaked me out until I got into it.


PATIENT: I sort of hate going up to my supervisor, oh what do I do with the kid?


COUNSELOR: Alright, but then one thing I really liked about it was at least the ones that I saw here were not, at least their problems didn't lie in their ability to be really direct and sort of unsullied by all of this grown up crap hadn't been impaired. So, that I really was very impressed by that. Even (inaudible at 1:54) and I are really was a lovely experience. I'm sure some kids have trouble with that. The one that I had didn't. (2:02)


PATIENT: That's good to look forward to kids. Could I borrow that?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, keep it for awhile.


PATIENT: It'll give me courage if anything else. How a delightful cold I am. My heater's not working very well at all. 


COUNSELOR: Sorry, we were so rushed the other day. I felt like we were still look at your cat very closely and he said afterwards sometimes he feels a little uncomfortable when he sees clients outside and he doesn't know he's going to. So, he both kind of rush and both sort of taken by surprise and that was kind of my fault, but he, you know, felt sorry, but he did like the cat. But I felt we rushed off very quickly.


PATIENT: Oh, I figured it out that he was probably (inaudible at 2:59)


COUNSELOR: I don't seem to be effected by that as much as he is, so. 


PATIENT: (inaudible at 3:17) Like getting beautiful and finding a kitten and a hamster. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 3:26) look like little hogs for awhile. 


PATIENT: Walking. (inaudible at 3:34) It's been really nice since my boyfriend and he sits since I helped him on Friday and Saturday helping him with his exams that he had to do for med school. I was up late helping him study.
And since then he's been over every single day feeding the kittens, which I'm absolutely amazed by. I'm not going to question it. (inaudible at 4:21) like call me every evening when I get home from work and say do you want help feeding the kittens? Do you want me to come over and fix dinner for you or something like that?


COUNSELOR: That's nice.


PATIENT: Like yesterday I had the worst cold I was feeling better today, but it was really awful and I had just had this two hour interview at the hospital. Then I got home about 6:30 or something like that, then fell asleep. He called just to say (inaudible at 4:48). That's really good.


COUNSELOR: I kind of feel like it's, what's the word I want? Like spontaneous for him and just like a really nice thing to do. That makes it nice on your end. In addition to the fact that it's sorely needed at this point, I guess.


PATIENT: I'm just worried I'll get too dependent. But I think once I get out from under things, spend some time to meet more people, I hope.


COUNSELOR: You'll make more what?


PATIENT: I hope once I get out from under this kitten stuff and then I'll, you know, have some (inaudible at 5:34) in my spare time and all other time to get to know more people and stuff because my boyfriend (inaudible at 5:41) until the end of April and I meant we met in April. That's going to be really strange. (5:54)


COUNSELOR: That's where (inaudible at 5:58)


PATIENT: (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: You look like you don't know quite how you feel about it.


PATIENT: I don't. I mean, it's going to be a good thing for him and it may, you know, be a good thing for me to have him. I'm a little too dependent on him. And really the only times that I've been not dependent on him was (inaudible at 6:20) But in a way too I just feel kind of badly, I mean, just that for all the time that we wasted having fights and stuff in the last three years mostly because I've been really screwed up and he's been really immature in a lot of ways. And together we have no hotel where he lives and we might as well. At least when things are good, which they've been for the last four days or something like that really, I don't know, I really feel disappointed I have no (inaudible at 7:08). 


COUNSELOR: Well, it almost sounds like from where each of you have been in your own lives like you've never been able to give each other the best of yourselves. 


PATIENT: That's really true.


COUNSELOR: You just really never had a chance. (7:22)


PATIENT: I sort of haven't had time to even stop and think what I've been worrying about or thinking about or anything else. Know what I really need to talk about. Is there anything I've said in the last three weeks that make sense to you? 


COUNSELOR: You haven't made sense.


PATIENT: This is what I was afraid was going to happen yesterday when I said do you need me to stand? I could never really tried and really got a cold or something and the ice is black. I'm very direct I'm told. 


I guess partly what I've been doing about in the last week, which isn't new, which is the whole thing I was expecting too much of people and then deciding to forget about them if they don't come through, which is kind of what happened with my roommate. She's still going on to a somewhat lesser degree where I don't feel like I'm very close to her. We're civil to each other and that's about all. And I don't feel like doing things with her though I don't feel all up tight every time I'm around her. (9:56)


I'm really just going to some time just to change my mood, but it's just something that I still overreact to. And I lose all perspective as to when I'm overreacting and when I've got a legitimate gripe against somebody. I mean, like just in regards to my boyfriend who I really have no gripe against at all now or I should have no gripe against. I know that, I guess, Saturday night after the study sessions and after we had both stayed up most of the night Friday night we were really pretty exhausted and we watched t.v. for the first time in a really long time Saturday night after studying. 


And it really went well and somehow I managed to stay halfway awake, which was pretty good for me because usually I'm asleep fast. But I really tried and I didn't know what I wanted from him. But, I mean, afterwards, I guess, he was kind of disappointed in the outcome of his studying, which was sort of good, sort of bad.  Half of his exams went really well and half were not so good. But it's like we've been together for this really long period of time, which I approve of, but we hardly had time to stop and talk to each other. (11:50)


And the whole time we'd been together all that day at the in the library quizzing him on anatomy and medical definitions. And, I mean, it was sort of hardly like he knew me there and I guess I just sort of wanted him just to, I just wanted to feel close to him or to feel appreciated by him or something like that. But, you know, after the people left that we watched t.v. with that night and he just sort of went right to sleep. 


And I got really, really upset, but I was really tired and I knew I wanted to go to sleep at his house, but I just, I ended up knowing that if I lay there I would just get really angry. But he's got a (inaudible at 12:44) and I went to bed. And I believe it was that because Friday night I felt sort of the same way. One of those two nights I ended up, when I went into my roommate's room like I just cried and cried and cried and I don't even know why exactly. 


I just felt completely miserable and completely unable to cope with things and completely angry at myself for being (inaudible at 13:35) just a whole bunch of really strong feelings that I didn't understand and really didn't know what to do about it. And Sunday morning we had a just beautiful time together and I was really happy for like the first time in I don't remember when because I can be with my boyfriend a lot and it'll feel very comfortable and very nice to be with him, but it takes an awful lot for him to be really, really warm and for me to just feel really, really completely happy and just completely accepted. (14:27)


And just very glad to be where I was or where I am right now and it didn't matter what was going to happen next or, but just a general feeling of, I don't know. Complete inner satisfaction, comfort, relaxation and just kind of completely given over to (inaudible at 15:04) really could. And it was just so nice while it lasted and somehow I forgot everything that had happened the night before and how miserable I felt. And it's like then my boyfriend left. He didn't give out any warning. 


He had this appointment that I didn't know about and all, I mean, you know, as he was getting ready to leave and everything I was really fine. I vowed that I would not show him I was crying. As he left he said (inaudible at 15:56) I see you're still really happy or something like that. I just nodded my head and he left and I felt, I didn't do anything the whole rest of the day. (16:10)


COUNSELOR: Why have you done that? There seems like there's a number of different threads that could be, you feel like being left or did you feel like you relaxed into something and let down? Let down or something and then it got cut off too abruptly? Any of those? 


PATIENT: I'm not really sure what was going on. I mean...


COUNSELOR: And then you have to apply all the alternatives to back up was there anything that stuck out for you?


PATIENT: A lot of it was just part of the reason that I felt so completely happy was that I really felt completely accepted and completely wanted, which is very rare because usually (inaudible at 17:16) but it makes me feel upset and, but like he really wanted to be there. And he spent Friday with me and he really liked me for myself and that's (inaudible at 17:34) I mean, that whole kind of feeling and I don't understand what, I mean, that possibly I'm sure a lot of it was not knowing that he was going to have to leave so soon. (18:06)


And I just sort of building up this nitro (ph) magic image of kind of getting up and having breakfast together and continuing to talk and stuff like that. And it was all of a sudden like and it was the same kind of feeling that I'd had whichever night it was that I cried. It was so long that somehow I put my faith in something that wasn't worth putting my faith in or that I'd be able to trust something that wasn't there and then like I'd just imagined that state of happiness.


COUNSELOR: Was that something, let see, thinking about this thing we have a late date is that something in him? Like you trusted something in him or you trusted something in you, like, what I have in mind is the move, the state, you were I'm not sure if it makes a difference, but the distinction occurs to me anyway.


PATIENT: Probably both. I didn't think of a distinction either because I know that not only was I upset, but then I was very upset that I was upset and that my own mood could change completely and instead I just really, really felt depressed.


COUNSELOR: I know maybe why the distinction came to me is that I know more about your feelings about how your moods change and your disappointment in that and feeling of how fragile some of them are and I don't know very much about or we haven't talked about the business about expectations from others except that, let's see what do I know most about, really more that you're afraid to ask very much from others. I guess that's the most I know. So, I guess that's why I ask questions. Was there something particularly disappointing to you about what you expected from him and if so what was it or something? (20:26)


PATIENT: I think so. I'm not sure what it was. 


Maybe it was just the all of a sudden, what seemed to be a complete change in behavior to him. Now, he was very thorough with me and he was his business side self again. He had something to do and...


COUNSELOR: You really did sense some sort of shift in him from, like, it was really almost observable. Not just the effect he has. 


PATIENT: Right. And I felt completely helpless to do anything about it. And I knew that if I let him know how I felt that it's really a vicious circle, but then he'd feel like he had to stay and he'd be late for his appointment, which he'd blame me for. And he'd said if you like, well we couldn't really be close and couldn't really make love and we couldn't, he had to be really careful not to show any strong affection towards me because then when he stopped then I would be disappointed and, I mean, yet he's expects this of me before. (22:14)


COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I think that I've sensed that that kind of thing would be important to you too. Like, I think, I've either sensed or heard you say out right that you don't want to have to ask for this kind of thing either or to have him stay because in some way you need it. You'd like to have it occur as it did that morning, but you don't want to force him in a way is what it sounds like.


PATIENT: Right, and, I mean, as it turned out I did the right thing to not let him know because he called me that evening and he was really depressed when he got home and I actually said to myself that morning that I would just (inaudible at 22:53) for a few days, stop getting upset so easily, but somehow by late that night I decided that that's stupid because you really don't have any reason to do it. And I mean he came over and he was very nice and he's come over since then and...


COUNSELOR: Are you comfortable with how you are with him while he's coming over?


PATIENT: Well, it's so right now colored black by external circumstances and every night he's come over I like have time to feed the kittens and cook dinner and feed the kittens again and go to bed and just be a little bitchy and tired. So, I haven't really had much time to really talk to him or say anything else except how the day went or something like that. So, it's really nice to have him just to talk about the hassles at work and so forth. (24:04)


But I just really don't know what to do about feeling so strongly and so inappropriately. 


COUNSELOR: You mean, like, being so overturned by him leaving the other day or like that?


PATIENT: I just get completely (inaudible at 24:58) from a complete state of happiness to just complete crash. 


COUNSELOR: Are you angry with him at all?


PATIENT: Probably. I really, I don't know. 


I mean, I was angry with him for not living up to my expectations and I was angry at me for expecting him to. And I don't really know. I don't think I even could have said that Sunday morning when he left. I just sort of lay there feeling so strongly about my inability to cope with this. But it was really important and the only way there I could cope with this was not to feel. And which is kind of a defense that my boyfriend would take a lot of times. (26:35)


COUNSELOR: Do you sense, is it sort of general on him, I think, or in you relationship?


PATIENT: As a general on him. He was really badly hurt by the girl he was going with before me and in fact he was still going with her long distance when I started seeing him. And he really has never expressed much emotion since as he expressed when she broke up with him. Then he gets afraid to really feel things for me. 


Because I'd sooner tell myself that, you know, I could look at it objectively. And somehow if I had to do something like that and I could have done it and fortunately I didn't have to do anything right then. And so I didn't do anything, but I just sort of lay there thinking, you know, it's ridiculous to feel this way. You should just forget about it and get up and do work and stuff that you should be doing. And so another part of me would be saying, but that means that you don't care and that you can just forget about feeling. And somehow I never want to get to that state, but I'm not sure that it's not just this pathological to feel. (28:39)


COUNSELOR: Helps define someone.


PATIENT: It's just to feel too strongly too often.


COUNSELOR: Well, you know, it's funny hearing you're saying this about, in some ways two opposites ends not feeling and feeling too much and yet, in a way, it struck me when you remarked about him before. It's like in a way the end result is similar and here's what I mean is that there, it sounds like the both of you have some kinds of fears that keep you a mute in areas that that should be expressed. It's somewhat different for both of you. 


I don't know what particularly what his mess would be, but I, you know, almost in contrast to your expecting too much I hear you often telling yourself not to expect anything at all. Or, you know, like or not to ask for anything at all and, you know, I don't know. It's like keeping yourself under wrap and it sounds like he does the same thing in a way. I don't know what that's supposed to accomplish. I don't know maybe that's not such a great brilliant formulation, but it just struck me that a lot in that relationship sounds like there's a lot of stuff that neither of you feels free to express, I guess. (30:18)


Well, and if that sounds right or not or is that just a fancy conclusion?


PATIENT: I'm not sure of the continuity.


COUNSELOR: You mean it doesn't solve for you.


PATIENT: Not completely. I mean, I can see this thing about feeling a lot and then going to the opposite side and not feeling. I do that all the time. And I mean it's kind of the only defense against feeling a lot. 


COUNSELOR: I think, what I'm doing there is not focusing on what you were talking about, but kind of surveying the scene and saying up close when you talk about it that you and your boyfriend have very different ways of doing things. Like you, sometimes he tends to feel where he closes off and defends against feeling anything at all. And you feel yourself overtaken by them and I was saying and I'd like to think about it a little more. That those things have the same end result in the relationship, I think, sometimes. I don't know if it's even useful kind of thing. I don't know if it's an issue.


PATIENT: What do you mean issues? (31:55)


COUNSELOR: Well, that he doesn't express his feelings to you, which I think is something that you think is better or implied and sometimes you don't express your feelings to him or feel that you can or feel that you don't do it effectively. And I guess the thing that struck me when I thought that was that each of you is silent in an area that's very important to each of you, whatever it may be. And that may be something like nowhere near where you are right now. If so forget it. It just kind of struck me. 


PATIENT: No, that's probably true. 


Except at least for me it's having learned to be silent because I know the consequences for not being. 


COUNSELOR: I've really gotten myself off the track with that stance, I think. I can see you really have to, I was having a train of thought. I was thinking I, you know, that okay well that might be right, but so what was my feeling after I delivered it and such. I don't know with such fanfare that's very close, the more I got myself off track, okay. (34:09)


PATIENT: I think somehow I'm having trouble dealing with it. It's turning really childish kind of pure feeling responses into some kind of mutual feeling that are acceptable and that I don't have to be ashamed of having and learning somehow to deal with them. The dissenting way I have to really developing this kind of childish helpless rage. I mean, I think of this little girl that hit her head against the wall, this happened yesterday and except where she seemed that she did that to get attention. 


I sort of would go in my room and do the same, equivalent kind of thing because I didn't have any other way of acting out what I felt. And I mean like Sunday I took a razor blade to myself for like the first time in a month and a few months and I did a really beautiful job. And felt very ashamed of it afterwards. And felt especially ashamed of it in that my boyfriend found marks from it this morning, which I'd managed to keep well hidden from view and it's like I just did the whole front. And I just sort kept it covered and he felt the scratches and developed into scabs so that he could feel them. (36:14)


And he just said, all he said to me this morning was were you angry at me? When were you angry at yourself and when were you angry with me? And he didn't say anymore, which I was very grateful for and he wanted to do something very light and that was all that was said. Except I know damn well that he's going to be scared to stay over again. And I also knew Sunday that that was the only thing that I really felt like doing. And by, you know, a couple of hours of lying in bed and letting the mood go away and cutting myself and thinking a lot I said that I felt pretty normal and pretty sitting (ph) after. 


But it's like learning how to cope with real strong feelings of helplessness which is what I felt then because I couldn't ever have brought him back. He'd already left. And I didn't have anybody to talk to. In some kind of a halfway responsible way without doing what the only other alternative really would have been, which would have been to deny that anything had happened that morning and to go away and not to feel at all. (38:05)


And I can just see my behavior now. I would have just been a very cold, efficient, clean and (inaudible at 38:19). Well, I thought about everything in a very definite calculating kind of way. 


COUNSELOR: Have you had the experience of trying to extract the kind of feelings you're talking about and wanting somehow to keep them to yourself? Or have you in the past kept them to yourself? Is that a fair or answerable question?


PATIENT: I'm sorry, I don't think I understood it. Have I just kept them to myself in the past, I mean, recently?


COUNSELOR: No, I'm wondering if you have had the experience of trying to express these feelings that you feel are primitive and sort of inexpressible and learning to keep them to yourself? Or have you, like, sort of always kept them to yourself?


PATIENT: Sort of a combination.


COUNSELOR: What's it been like when you express them or when you tried to?


PATIENT: I used to try to express them to the boyfriend that I had before I had this boyfriend and it used to make him really upset because he didn't know how to deal with me. 


COUNSELOR: Can you explain why? I mean was it the content? Was it the way you were when you expressed them? (39:58)


PATIENT: If ever I got really upset he never saw that I had a real reason for getting as upset as I did. I got upset with him honestly through common welfare (ph). I know not to pay attention to me or I don't know a million things. It's one of them where usually it would be an accumulation of them. Finally it just got me really, really upset and I would just sort of try to tell him that I was really upset. I never could really explain it to him. 


And I sort of alternated between trying to tell him and his getting up and just going for a walks at 5:00 in the morning, get myself to feel better so I could go to sleep. 


But it was very, very, very rare that I ever was able to talk through the feelings or whatever and he kind of (inaudible at 41:18). I think I didn't understand them myself. And a lot of the things that I did understand would be criticisms of him or something that he did. And if I started talking about him he'd get really defensive, which is kind of what happened with my current boyfriend. If I finally get so upset that I have to talk to him then he just he ends up being the one that's really upset for the times that we're talking because then he ends up condemning himself for all the things that I've raised that I said he hurt me and saying that that was just the way he was and he could never change and he actually acting even worse than I've been acting. (42:10)


And in fact I could sort of conceive of some kind of an ideal where you can work through your feelings, the more you can talk them out. But I'm not sure of what it consists of and I'm not sure how to go about reaching out to him. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, and it sounds like right now too you don't see, I mean, you feel like the feelings themselves ought to change before you could start to work them through. At least that's the impression I'm getting is that they ought to be somewhat different maybe in intensity or something. It isn't just a matter of learning how to do it. 


PATIENT: Yeah, they ought to be less intense and I ought to express them in different ways. 


END TRANSCRIPT
