TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I'm kind of glad it's warm in here today. I've been feeling a little yucky.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Are you getting sick?
CLIENT: I don't know. I wonder if maybe I've just been so tired maybe I'm just kind of worn out. And the whole weekend I didn't get a lot of good sleep I think. So on Friday something happened that I think is pretty important. I went to out to a bar with my friend Matthew. It's a bar in the Square. We're having a great time. It's all good and then I ran into my friend Penny who I don't know if I ever talked to you about. She's in that circle of Mike and Jess, and she's the one who would always flirt, and we kind of hooked up a little bit. She was the one that kind of hurt my feelings with the whole... Remember when I got upset that everyone was oh you're a player or you're a heart breaker. You know what I'm talking about? [00:01:27]
THERAPIST: Oh, this is a while ago. 
CLIENT: This was a while ago. And I've been pretty icy to her since then. But at the wedding—at Mike's wedding I kind of buried the hatchet in my own way by (inaudible at 00:01:45). I was hey remember when we were friends before you hurt me and said stupid shit. 
THERAPIST: So remind me she was saying that you...
CLIENT: What bothers me about her was I liked her. I wasn't trying to hook up with her. I liked her. And so it bothered me that she both was clearly into me so we'd always flirt and make out or whatever, but then that she would not pursue it, I think, because of that feeling that oh well you date a lot of girls. I don't know. It just really hurt me. I was like what the fuck. Anyway so I ran into her. I've never seen out like I had never seen her out. And that was fine too you know. [00:02:35]
What ends up happening is then I come back over and she's over there with her girlfriend or whatever and I'm like you know come by if you want. I was totally nice, whatever. So Matthew and I are talking then I see this other girl who looks really fucking familiar. As said wow is that that girl Karen I used to date? I was fuck that would be awful if it is. And she's right there behind Matthew and I'm... So I try to figure it out. I try to figure it out. Okay, I've got to see. If it's not her then that's fine, but if it is her that would really suck. [00:03:08]
So I go over and I'm like Karen and she's like no it's Paige, but yeah how are you? I know you. I was like what the fuck. What? She was like you were here for your best friend's bachelor party, and you talked to me and my friend here Ginger. I was like oh shit that's right. We were pretty drunk and I was trying to get Mike to talk to chicks. So I was like this is kind of blowing my mind. I'm like these girls are sober. I get to see this chick again. She's pretty cute, whatever. Long story short Penny comes over. Being the kind of person I am, I introduce Matthew and Penny to these two girls and almost instantly I suddenly felt like the fifth wheel. Paige just talked to Penny, Matthew was talking to the other chick, so I was like well I don't want to cramp his style. And I don't know what the fuck happened my night was just a tail spin. It was a fucking tail spin. So that was one. [00:04:18]
Then at one point with Paige I just leaned over and I said something like it's really funny that at first I kind of didn't recognize you. But as I explained because when you came up to the bar to get your drink I said wow that girl is so fucking beautiful. I love her outfit and stuff. It's all I said. That's all I said right. She gave me the spiel about how she's not dating and she gave me the pat on the back. It just cascaded. You know what I mean? Long story short, Dave shows up—poor guy shows up—and I'm the type where when it gets that bad—that had not been in a long time—when it gets like that I can't hide it. I had completely shut down. Even that girl Paige she came over and she's like I'm really sorry. I feel like I really hurt your feelings and you seem kind of (inaudible at 00:05:14). I was like listen I don't want to hear it, whatever. It just is what it is. [00:05:21]
THERAPIST: Can you just pause for a minute.
CLIENT: My stomach hurts. 
THERAPIST: When that happened I'm missing what's so bad.
CLIENT: I have no idea. That's why I'm here. I mean I guess this is why... I mean I think what hurt me so much that night was the feeling that wow I'm fucked up. What happened exactly? I don't know what happened. I guess it was just that... I think it just bothered me that yet again... It was a number of things. I felt pissed that I'm the one that went out of my way. I talk to these girls that you fuckers don't know, and now I feel left out. I was feeling left out of the conversations even. I was just feeling like I'm kind of standing there. I'm the one who made this happen and somehow I'm not being included. [00:06:07]
Matthew I can understand because he's doing his thing with that chick. But I was just angry. Fucking Penny. Of all the times I see Penny who I have this history with and I feel like she's kind of cock blocking me or something. You know what I mean? I just felt annoyed and fucking just... And then with the pat I felt that if nothing else it was very odd, and unnecessary, and condescending. When you're just being complimented to suddenly give a spiel about how you're not dating and the pat on the back like that's just ... It was just everything. I know I completely overreacted, no fucking doubt, but it wasn't out of the thin blue air. I just felt like what am I doing here like what the... It was one of those moments where I felt really alone and... 
THERAPIST: Like the rejected...
CLIENT: Yeah I felt totally rejected when nothing had even happened. I was like I haven't even asked you out. Why not just be like thanks a lot. I really appreciate. Who cares? You know what I mean? I feel like so out of her way to say that and it was so unnecessary. [00:07:16]
THERAPIST: Well she may have for her own reasons.
CLIENT: That's fine. I know that my reaction... 
THERAPIST: Something about it really just sent you...
CLIENT: Exactly. I know my reaction was completely overboard, but don't get me wrong I mean I get it. So Dave gets there and, of course, that makes it worse because now I feel like I'm being judged by Dave who once in a while—remember I was telling you I have those feelings where we're so similar but why do I feel like he's older than me and cooler than me. You know what I mean? So he was like well kid what's going on? What's the matter? And he wasn't doing anything wrong but it made me more annoyed. I was like look man I feel the way I feel. I know once in a blue moon I get like this. It's going to pass. 
THERAPIST: Did he say kid?
CLIENT: Well we say that to each other.
THERAPIST: You both say it?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like a thing you know like hey kid what's up. But oh fuck it got so bad I just had to leave. I left the bar. I paid the whole bill. I bought those chicks their drinks. I just paid everything. I paid like eighty fucking dollars. I just wanted to leave, and I didn't want to stand there and it was noisy, and I knew Matthew would just get me back or whatever. We're like best friends. But I couldn't even deal. I just wanted—I mean really I was not doing well. [00:08:29]
So Dave and I leave. We see Buddy. The minute I saw Buddy it was really weird like I started crying. I had a good cry. 
THERAPIST: Dave left with you though?
CLIENT: Yeah, Dave left with me. No, he's a really good friend. He was like dude... And I told him dude I completely overreacted. And I didn't even go into the details of what happened. I was you know dude I have issues and once in a while unfortunately... I said this hasn't happened in a long time. I don't know why it happened tonight, but... I saw Buddy and I had a good cry. [00:09:15]
Now the upside to all this is that was it. I'm not in some kind of weird... Because I was still kind of right. I just don't like people like that. I don't... That's just not cool behavior and it's not thoughtful so it pissed me off. And the next day I was like you know what I'm not going to act like I was such a crazy what the fuck happened. Yeah, I completely overreacted. I sent Penny an e-mail and I was like listen it's not that I'm apologizing but I feel like I have to explain. And I was very articulate. She wrote me right back and she's like I am so sorry. She's like first of all I was kind of drunk. I don't know why I was talking to that girl so much. 
THERAPIST: That's what I was wondering. 
CLIENT: Yeah. She's like I'm so sorry. I wasn't thinking and she's like when I drink I get kind of weird or whatever. And she's like I had no idea that she said something like that to you. That's weird. She's like well fuck them. Oh because I wrote her also she invited her to her party next week. So I was Penny that's fine, whatever man, but you've got to let me know so I can put my game face on. If she's going to be there I just want to know ahead of time. I don't want to show up (inaudible at 00:10:26). She's like she's absolutely not coming to my party. She's like I don't want to be friends with those girls. I was just drinking and you know. [00:10:36] 
THERAPIST: Being friendly.
CLIENT: But she was totally appreciative. She was like I'm sorry. It's like I know. Whatever. It was really cool and the same with Matthew. I was like dude... But it was dark. I mean on my way it got to that stupid place again where I sent some texts to a couple of friends and I was like just stupid.
THERAPIST: Saying what place?
CLIENT: I always go to this place where my default line is if I could throw myself off a bridge I would. That's not cool to text to people. It's like that feeling of like... I would never do that, but it's just that feeling that I feel so disgusted by myself in some ways. I hate that I feel that way that some idiot would make me feel that way. I hate that I'm so deeply profoundly fucked up that that's not really going away, or that I'm getting better but still once in a while having these awful fucking that's just awful. And then I can't even hide it. Somehow I can't put on a poker face. In those moments I'm done. I think when I was even signing the bill, because they know me there, I think they were kind of looking at me like dude are you okay. Like when I come in here like you look sad. I can't even imagine. I probably look like I'm about to cry which I am I guess. Bizarre. Absolutely bizarre. [00:12:04]
Now it's good that I've gotten over it. I don't feel like oh I can't go back to that bar. I know enough to know that I'm a really sensitive person, sometimes I have a lot of dark melancholy feelings, and I also know that it was an overreaction, but it was a reaction to something real. It wasn't just random suddenly I'm in a weird mood. And also these drunk douches came over. I was so fucking proud of myself in that moment. So I'm standing with Paige, the douche, and I think Penny, and I'm just done. I am so done. And this fucking douche bag just comes up and goes...
THERAPIST: A guy? [00:13:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, the guy. He goes hey so many men in a bar like this like you're drinking Bud. I drink Bud there. It's ice cold. It's fucking delicious. They love me and they gave me my own little koozie, you know Kool-Aid koozies. I don't even like koozies. But they love me and they gave me... I let this mother fucker have it. It felt so good. I was like well what the fuck is it to you? I mean I just literally just went at him. He's like no I'm not saying anything. But I mean come on bar like... I was like dude you don't know me. I was like you're shooting your mouth of and just watch it. All I know is I was like incredibly—I had a grin on my face, and I was just bitch slapping this asshole verbally—it was awesome—to the point I was like man I'm not trying to insult you. I don't know whether you're trying to insult me or not. I don't fucking know you so I have no idea why you're interested in my Bud. I was like you're just pushing my buttons man. Just be with your friends. Walk away. You know what I mean? I don't know what I said; something like that. And that felt great. Maybe even that was an overreaction, but I didn't fucking care because you're all a bunch of—not all but it was getting to that point. I'm in a bar with a bunch of drunk assholes. I was like what am I doing here. [00:14:32]
THERAPIST: You can feel good about that reaction and yet it also has brought me another exchange that had to or just him saying that to you like another slice of an unfolded evening. 
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. Why is this random person... That's never happened to me in my life. Who the fuck are you? Clearly he just wants to talk to these girls, whatever, so he's just moving in. But I was like that never happens and yet it was just such an avalanche of awfulness that it made perfect sense. Just awful. It was just awful.
THERAPIST: I mean his purpose is to humiliate you.
CLIENT: Yeah. He's trying to muscle in.
THERAPIST: He's totally aggressive.
CLIENT: Yeah, he's trying to muscle in. Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's trying to muscle in. 
THERAPIST: And do it in front of other people. [00:15:21]
CLIENT: So in that way I felt good that I didn't... That's a good feeling.
THERAPIST: At least on the surface didn't let it look like it...
CLIENT: Exactly. Well you've got to do what you've got to do. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Well and it wasn't all on the surface. That was genuine. And whatever I was saying to that guy was from the heart. But yeah, of course, it was just a clusterfuck of whatever was happening. When I left I didn't really say goodbye to the Paige girl. Her friend was definitely like what the fuck happened like she was like oh you're leaving. Okay. Bye. I was like see you whatever. 
THERAPIST: So what's so different is that you could have an experience like that that's momentary and it doesn't become an obstacle for the rest of the week or month. [00:16:17]
CLIENT: No. And also you know what because I have a sense of that wasn't cool. I overreacted, but one thing I told Penny in the e-mail I was like listen man I work really hard on myself like really fucking hard and even my closest friends you don't know. I've got a lot of darkness, and melancholy, and I've just got a lot of stuff, and I've worked really, really hard. And I was like now it's not fake confidence anymore. I feel pretty good about myself. So when stuff like that happens maybe it's an overreaction, but I'm just tired. I don't want to put up with weird behavior. I'm just sick of people like that. You know what I mean? Yeah, would it be better if I just ignored and didn't give a shit? Yeah, that's what I'm working towards. But once in a while you know what people are just going to have to deal with the fact that they did something that's insensitive and they hurt somebody so fuck you, you know. [00:17:24]
THERAPIST: So you're adding another thing that you're with it is not looking back and just blaming only yourself and beating yourself up.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like if I see that girl again and if it comes up I'll probably be not in that state. I'm just going to tell her you know it's totally fine. That was just kind of hurtful what you did and it didn't make any fucking sense. I don't give a shit if you're dating or not. I was just being flirty. And by the way she was being flirty. I'm tired of that kind of shit. And I think it was also the feeling of like dude this is my turf. It's not your turf. I'm a local boy. This is my bar. This is my town. These bartenders know me. They all were like oh I want to have a koozie with my beer. It was like dude go and koozie with your... I didn't ask for a koozie. I don't think I'm cool. And then the little douche bag with his (inaudible at 00:18:21). I was like dude, you're here on your little grad school thing, wherever you came from, but this is my town. I don't need to explain myself to anybody. I don't. Dave doesn't. None of us do. So there was also that kind of feeling like they're in this bar, they think it's their bar, and they're all like... You know what I mean? They moved to the area from Portland or wherever the fuck. I'm not saying that was a part of it too, but the more I think about it maybe there was a little bit of that. Just these assholes that just show up here and they just have puffy chests because they're whatever. It was just a bad night. I wasn't proud of it at all, but I'm proud of how I got through it I guess. [00:19:10]
THERAPIST: We know how it's so different know and how your mind has managed this after the fact. It also does sound like there's still a lot though to unpack about...
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what bummed me out. 
THERAPIST: So what is happening that's happening?
CLIENT: And also the thing I didn't even get I was like why is this... I've got a bunch of chicks I'm juggling right now. It'd be one thing if I can't get a date. No girls will pay attention to me. I've got no prospects. You know what I mean? Then you're just hitting rock bottom, you're just desperate, and you feel shitty, and that happens. That's awful you know. I'm fucking juggling different chicks and different... That's I think where the emotion is like wow I'm profoundly sad and it's got nothing to do with any of this. Clearly I guess I had such a fucked up childhood that if a pretty girl rejects me—I don't care if I have 20 girls lined up—if a girl that I'm being a little bit flirty with and she rejects me like that I might as well be 12 years old I guess. That must be what it is because I can't think of why else. [00:20:26]
It's clearly something really old especially if she had worded it maybe a little differently I don't know. Although objectively maybe it wasn't because she said I don't want you to take this... I think she even said something like I don't want you to take it the wrong way. No, I think said I'm not trying to shut you down. You know what I mean? But, again, I don't know what the means. But she's like I moved here with somebody, and it didn't work out, and I'm not really dating, whatever. I think it was just the pat on the back. There was just something about it. I just felt like you don't know me and why are you giving me a whole... I don't know man. I feel like that really is a girl thing. [00:21:15]
No guy in their right fucking—even a married dude if someone said you look really fucking handsome or whatever you'd be like thanks. What dude is going to be like thanks but hey listen I'm married. I feel like that's such a double schizo... You know they want to flirt but they somehow also want to whatever. I don't know what it is, but that's happened to me before a couple of times. And maybe that's because I'm very honest. If I like someone I flirt with them. I tell them that they look great or whatever, and I think some girls don't know what to do with that or they want to hear that but they also want to make sure that you know that they're off limits. I don't know what the fuck it is. It's like what's going to happen? All you have to say is thanks. That was going to be the end of it. Later on if you feel like I'm being aggressive and I'm asking for your number, then let me know. But I don't know. Whatever. Regardless it was definitely an overreaction. [00:22:19]
THERAPIST: What stops you right there? I don't know. I don't know. Whatever.
CLIENT: No, because I know that regardless I overreacted.
THERAPIST: You know that already though. You sort of moved to that statement and it shuts down what you were just opening up. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: No because it doesn't feel good. It just feels like I'm being silly, and nit-picking, and it's all semantics.
THERAPIST: It's hard to talk about it.
CLIENT: Yah. Yeah, kind of, yeah. 
THERAPIST: Even as you say because it's not true because I can have all the girls I want. (inaudible at 00:22:57). It's almost like you're reassuring yourself and reassuring me that it can't be true that that rejection... [00:23:05]
CLIENT: No, but that's what I'm saying. I mean why was I crying? Not because... That's why. I was even as it was happening I know enough now to be like what the... This has nothing to do... So I wasn't sitting there going come on man buck up you've got 20 broads that want to do you. I mean that was just a passing thought. The thought was that you have some profound sadness that no girl is going to fill. This girl could want to blow you in the bathroom right now. You could walk out of there, and some other girl could reject you, and you're going to break into tears. I mean that's a seriously profound something. So that's what I'm saying. That's why it's hard to talk about because I don't know what that is. In that moment I know I overreacted but it's not about that. I don't understand. That's just a bummer that that means that there's still a lot of... Yeah, I've gotten way better and that's awesome, but man the fact that those moments can still happen, especially when I was feeling pretty damn good, it's still too unsettling because it was so out of the blue. I don't like that it's like this switch. I don't like that. [00:24:25]
THERAPIST: Let me back you up a little bit in the story. So before you see Paige, before you are sure who Paige is, you whizzed through the beginning of the story so I'm not going to try to understand all the details. You joined Penny there?
CLIENT: I was going to the bathroom, and I saw her way on the other side.
THERAPIST: So this is the first time you've seen her in a while or...
CLIENT: Since the wedding.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: This is the first time I'd seen just me and her in a social situation. I mean I've been pretty icy to her. 
THERAPIST: So already is there something before the whole Paige thing...
CLIENT: Well but that's what I'm saying. That's why I was maybe angry at Penny. I mean, yeah, it did bring up like oh fuck. Like it brought up what happened with her. Yeah.
THERAPIST: And brought up feeling rejected? What were your feelings with her? [00:25:16]
CLIENT: By Penny? 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Just rejected but also like why did I even feel so rejected. She's not even... She's hot but she's not a big deal. I would've definitely broken up with her if we had dated.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I think you know that's even the point.
CLIENT: Are you saying what was it that triggered...
THERAPIST: I know you know in some way it's an irrational feeling, but still what's that feeling? Is it rejected... Did it have to do with her pointing out something about you being a player? Was that...
CLIENT: Back then?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean my whole thing with her was that I just didn't like that she was always flirty with me, she would always hook up with me, but she couldn't turn it into dating. I was like I'd like to get to know you. I'm not trying to get in your pants. I was very clear so it really hurt my feelings that she always had this oh you're a heartbreaker. It was part of that... Remember I was telling you there was these couple of people that used to do shit like that and I was really upset by that. [00:26:20]
THERAPIST: A couple of people who were all friends?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: In that group. Yeah. Who would say you were a player?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There goes Brian again.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or like I'd go to a party and they'd be like why aren't you here with a pretty girl? But I was dealing with that. When she came over to talk with me Matthew I bought her a drink. We were joking around. This is the thing she was still flirting with me; Penny was. She said something like I shouldn't be here in these shoes like you probably hate these shoes. I looked down and I was like I do hate these shoes. What the fuck? You're wearing like hiking boots. And she was like well I have other shoes and she changed her shoes for me. [00:27:10]
Now I don't even know what that is. You know what I mean? You have a boyfriend you live with I think. I don't know. I don't know what to do anymore with these moments where I feel like I have some kind of power over chicks which is genuine, but I also genuinely have some fucked up sensitivity that has nothing to do with women. So on the one hand it's this awesome genuine charm I have or something. I don't know what the fuck it is. This chick is changing her shoes for me. But then this other girl who I don't even know says just some thing that is not cool but no big deal and just the fucking tail spin... So it's very confusing to me. [00:28:09]
THERAPIST: Well I think they're intricately related to each other. One of the things you're describing is feeling safe, and comfortable, and good enough about yourself if she, whoever she is, is in your control. If you know you can do X, Y, Z and X, Y, and Z happens, it's in your control, you can feel good. When she responds in a way that's not in your control or isn't responsive to what you're doing I think it plummets. So it's the feeling of not being omnipotent, constantly the one in control, and you feeling like nothing's in your control, no one loves you. There's a powerless in a way. It's like always totally powerful or powerless. [00:29:11]
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, there's no... There's no like some girls will like you some girls won't. No duh. It doesn't matter who you are or how great you are that's the way it's going to go. I think in my case what happens is that, yeah, it's what you said and also that it immediately makes me feel like that 12 year old kid that thinks he's ugly and whatever. 
THERAPIST: It sends you back to an earlier place in your development where I think you didn't feel in control.
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: You sound like... I mean we don't have all the history and data to know, but it sounds like that natural phase in kid's development where they actually have the fantasy of being omnipotent grandeur. I'm the center of the world, and my parents love everything about me, and they're all about me. That gradually fades and you guys know the reality of parents are separate people and they live their own lives. It just doesn't sound like you ever had that. You weren't the center of their universe. So there's a part of you still never got that and feels alone, and alienated, and like nothing. [00:30:22]
CLIENT: Well not only did I get that I didn't have the normal development of here in high school you date a girl, she dumps you, you someone... I didn't have any of that. So that's fucked up too. I didn't have a serious girlfriend until that Assyrian chick after my dad died which is not a normal way to go about things. So I never had that development; never. I didn't both get the girl and I wasn't rejected by them. I just had nothing. So between the family and the not having a normal high school, junior high, whatever, spin the bottle and all this shit, whatever kids do... [00:31:08]
THERAPIST: And I think at some point—I don't know when you mark this exactly, you need to start to kind of intuitively find this way of getting women in your control. There's what you call charm, something...
CLIENT: Yeah, mid to late 20's. 
THERAPIST: You know how to kind of hone in. We've talked about this in so many different ways and you get her to respond. And you have felt better, and better, and better about yourself the more you developed and could feel that working like that worked. It was effective. Even in places where you could've never of imagined it, it worked. But then these few places where it doesn't work it's like the deficit inside gets sort of a bright light shown on it. With the place where it's not in your control it feels like you're devastated. That there must be something really uncomfortable about it. 
CLIENT: Well not to mention all those earlier times in some ways weren't real because they weren't coming from a genuine place of confidence.
THERAPIST: They're come from a compensatory place. Right. [00:32:11]
CLIENT: Yeah, they're just like this maverick... I was like fuck it or whatever, and that's great, but it wasn't from a genuine place of knowing myself, being confident, and thinking well do I even want to be with this person. 
THERAPIST: And it's possible it's not coming from a genuine place in her either whoever her is. If it's a seductive powering control, it's not two minds mutually agreeing to come towards each other. So it leaves you still, I think, with this like if that's not happening constantly you're back with the hole inside. So Penny back when even saying gee you're such a player sort of labeling that and knowing that makes it not an effective strategy. Like she's going to put that out there and then maybe interested, maybe flirt, but essentially play you only and not go any further either. And it leaves this kind of irritation about whether people would really fall for you. So that gets triggered walking into the bar. [00:33:23]
CLIENT: Meanwhile you know what's so odd? I mean people are amazing though. First of all it was very nice of Penny like her response was very heartfelt. That was cool. That made me feel good. Matthew was totally cool about it. Whatever. The chick from the wedding, yesterday she was like hey so you're not 35. You're older right? I was like...
THERAPIST: This is the 16 year old?
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh fuck. Who cares? And I still hate that. I hate talking about age. I know that that's an issue and I know it's me. But anyway she pushed me on it and I was like yeah, I'm 41. Whatever. That kid essentially had the most profound and lovely response that put me to shame. You know what I mean like young people can surprise you. I was like I'm an idiot. I felt like a kid. You know what I mean? [00:34:33]
She was like I'm just upset because did you think I'm some—I don't know how she said it—like some sex deprived teenager or something? She's like I think you're one of the most extraordinary people I've ever met. She's like with all the things you do I just think you're an incredible person. I'm not just trying to get in your pants or whatever. And she's like I don't give a shit how old you are and she's like you shouldn't care about that either. She's like you're an incredible... I was just like... And I told her I was like honestly you should be proud of how wise and caring you are. That means a lot to me that you would say that. I have an issue about my... I was like I'm a stupid... And I know a lot of people have issues about their age, but I know that it's really silly and really stupid. [00:35:34]
But I'm trying to say that it kind of tied into Friday because that's what I can't muster in those moments. You know what I mean? You know what I'm saying? Like in that moment Friday I couldn't just go look who cares. I'm here with my friends. I'm having drinks. You're dating. You're not dating. I don't give a fuck. And that's the same thing as saying how old are you, I'm 41; Not even a thought. You know what I mean? I still can't... That's hard for me. Even if the chick's 35 it doesn't matter. For some reason I find myself lying, fibbing, I'm 38, I'm 37, I'm 35. [00:36:15]
Yoga girl, I told her I was 38 and then later I was like look man this is the deal. I'm sorry. She's like I totally get it. She's like I totally understand. You don't have to lie to me about it, but I totally know that's tough for people sometimes. But I'm trying to say that it just showed me how sometimes I'm unable to both tap into that for whatever reason. Suddenly there's this moment where I don't have a sense of self and that genuine thing, and that I kind of misjudge people too. Do you know what I mean? I just assume that oh well if this person knows that I'm not 30, or whatever, they'll be like fuck you. [00:37:06]
THERAPIST: That you have a chance that she's like your mother. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Regardless of age whether she's...
THERAPIST: Oh exactly. The chance that she's...
CLIENT: I mean I've told women that are 40 that I go on dates with that I'm 35. I don't know why. I mean I have an idea why but that really drove home to me that I've really got to get better at just forcing myself to be like hey man I'm 41. I mean what is the big deal? If I was a woman maybe. I could see women being a little more sensitive. But it's very hard for me. For example, I don't even say it to myself. That's how bad it is. Like I don't think things—like the number 41 I don't use it in my mind. You know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: You're bumping up against there being in places inside like your age or a woman who isn't interested for whatever reason that night they're in these pockets of tremendous shame still. But I think we haven't even opened all the reasons why is 41 so shameful. It's so much shame it's unspeakable even in your own mind. It hits this well of shame I think. The woman or whatever she's not interested and she says it in a kind of humiliating way for her own self, for whatever reason, it comes out in a way that is kind of meant to be a rejection. And it sort of hits this nerve and it goes into this well of stuff that you felt as a kid I think. Like when you say you feel like you're 12 again, what are you picturing? [00:39:03]
CLIENT: There's no image or picturing it's just a feeling of like you're kind of small and outside the main group. 
THERAPIST: When that comes to mind that was a fantasy. Are you at school? Is it you and your family? What? You just at home alone? 
CLIENT: All of the above. I mean I don't think of one particular it's just a general feeling.
THERAPIST: Outside even in your own family you feel like an outsider? 
CLIENT: Oh yeah, definitely. And I still do right. Like for our big family get-togethers they talk about nonsense things that I could school them on, and I just don't say anything or whatever. Or they have no idea what I'm doing or how important these things are to me, or how difficult it is to accomplish the things I've accomplished. They have no fucking idea. So that's just the way it's been. I mean it's different now in the sense that they are proud but they just can't grasp... You know what I mean? So it's not a malevolent thing. It just doesn't click. They don't get it. They're just business people or whatever. [00:40:32]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Is also occurs to me that you thought Paige at first was Karen instead of Karen so she may have been humiliated. 
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean I think in this case maybe not because I mean we were drunk; the context of how we met.
THERAPIST: You don't think she would be hurt? [00:41:13]
CLIENT: I mean on the tail end of a bachelor party when you're wasted I mean how could that be anybody's fault. I mean you're drunk. It's a bachelor party. Yeah, I mean I'm sure she wasn't thrilled about it, but...
THERAPIST: It wouldn't extreme. It's not like you had a long conversation earlier in the night or something?
CLIENT: The night of the bachelor party? 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: No, I did talk to them for a while. We did talk for a while, but what I'm saying is she knew that it was the tail end of it. She saw us being plied with shots. 
THERAPIST: There's got to be some forgiveness.
CLIENT: Yeah. A little bit. A little bit. And also I told her I was like I didn't think you guys were that interested. I think I said it as some point. I was like I remember you kind of drifted off and I felt like you weren't really particularly interested or whatever way before anything happened. I don't know how that came up but I was like... Because I do remember that. I remember at some point, and I remember in that moment I was like hey I think we're all pretty drunk. It's probably time to go home soon. Like I started kind of... You know what I mean? Because I did ask for her number that night, but I kind of don't remember a lot of that. [00:42:29]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Do you remember that you patted me on the shoulder when you said look who's running late now?
CLIENT: I did?
THERAPIST: Uh huh. 
CLIENT: Wow. I'm sorry. Really? 
THERAPIST: I bring up just thinking about your feeling the condescension of her patting you on the back.
CLIENT: Oh man I'm sorry I did that. [00:43:21]
THERAPIST: Do you not remember?
CLIENT: Not at all. I remember saying it. I remember everything about that but I don't remember that. Sorry that sucks. Normally I'm...
THERAPIST: What are you sorry for when you say that?
CLIENT: Well I hate that. I mean it clearly isn't meant as a condescending thing but, yeah, I mean that's...
THERAPIST: Well it might be a little bit. 
CLIENT: Nah. Nah, nah, nah. 
THERAPIST: In other words...
CLIENT: I mean it could be interpreted that way. 
THERAPIST: It could be. That's why my mind was just open about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If you are used to feeling humiliated when you're late, or when you're not here, and just sitting with your shame, to have the tables turned and all the sudden, at least, there's someone feeling embarrassed it's me not you. You've been, I think, humiliated and shamed in your childhood. It's ways we still have to get into. Sometimes that could get inside a person and it's better to be the one humiliating than humiliated. [00:44:23]
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe subconsciously. I didn't...
THERAPIST: I certainly don't mean consciously.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (Pause) Oh wow I'm going to be hyper-vigilant about that. I wonder if I do that? 
THERAPIST: You were in a very particular mood that day too. It doesn't always feel like that's in the room, but...
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: You were kind of on top of the world. 
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: Uh huh. It was a beautiful day. You'd seen the turkey.
CLIENT: Oh right, right. Well that was a nice day. Yeah, it was a nice day. That's not weird. Stuff like that worries me. I'm not like bipolar or something right? [00:45:13]
THERAPIST: No. 
CLIENT: Okay. I just worry that I'm not... I don't feel like I am. Like do I act manic or anything?
THERAPIST: You can get a little hyper manic sometimes but not in a place that pushes to it to that.
CLIENT: That worries me sometimes. 
THERAPIST: I think of it more along the lines of the fluctuations in self esteem which is different than endogenous mood. Do you know what I mean like in your brain?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But when things feel like you describe it as the stars aligning and things are going well you can get really happy and then really down on yourself. I think that's probably what I'm doing is trying to integrate.
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like that's been less and less.
THERAPIST: Much less.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because day to day I feel pretty much the same now. But yeah... [00:46:02] 
THERAPIST: (Pause) You want to talk about Thursday? 
CLIENT: 12:50?
THERAPIST: 11:00?
CLIENT: All right. Thanks. See you. [00:46:25]
END TRANSCRIPT
