TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Everybody says that. Everybody either says that or laughs at me. But it's true. Over the last year, year-and-a-half, I've noticed that every time I eat it I get really hung over, like alcohol hung over. So ... I mean one time, I remember I got up and I said, "Oh my God, I guess I drank a lot last night." And I remember I didn't have ANYTHING. Then we went out for Beth's birthday and went to Gary's over here and there were huge chunks in it. And I knew I was eating it going, "Why are you eating this?" And I didn't sleep much, so ... I don't know if I GOT something during the night or whether I had fever and ... it was just awful so I shouldn't eat it. Do you know of a nutritionist, by the way, does the hospital know anybody here?
COUNSELOR: A nutritionist.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Um, I don't know. I don't know whether they have a ...
PATIENT: I want to hire one. 
COUNSELOR: To help you with your diet?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I just ... I really .... I can't like hide it anymore that, you know, things I eat really affect the way I feel, so ... maybe sugar and ... I just want to get somebody to ... maybe a sports nutritionist. 
I had the worst actor's nightmare this morning. Just awful. I was like doing a show and I couldn't find my script and my friend and I were like looking through the script and he's going, "Wow, look at all this French you're supposed to have!" He goes, "I wonder why they're not in there? We'd better add them." I said, "You can't, you can't, we're opening tonight." And he said, "Oh you can learn them that quick." And then I went searching, you know, running through all of New York going, "Oh my God, I must have left it at the Y. But I can't run to the Y because the wind's too strong," you know? Then I was transported back to Philadelphia at some kind of like a group of leaders that were there when I was there or are there, and I was over talking to one ... this artistic director sitting next to me, I said, "Suzie," she's just like, "Shut up." She ignored me. [0:02:07]
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry, what happened?
PATIENT: She ignored me. 
COUNSELOR: You said, "block"?
PATIENT: Suzie.
COUNSELOR: Suzie.
PATIENT: That's her name - Suzie this guy called them "The Bouncing Czechs" because they're Czechoslovakian.
COUNSELOR: And they're a dramatic ...
PATIENT: They're artistic directors.
COUNSELOR: Artistic directors. 
PATIENT: There was another friend of mine ...I'm really bad with names right now ...
COUNSELOR: In the dream?
PATIENT: Yeah, in the dream, and he was like saying, "And we're welcoming so-and-so actors to this process," and I said, "Oh thank God I don't know any of them," because I was waiting for my heart to sink to know friends had gotten cast. And he said, "But of course Brian's the head of the show," I was like, "Oh no, it's Brian. I hate Brian, you know? We were supposed ..." You know, we were going to produce a show together and he backed out and our friendship broke up and ... it turned out to be a black Brian, so good. And then I just ... my dream was just searching for my script. I just woke up, like, so exhausted. "I can't find the fucking script. I can't find the script."
COUNSELOR: Mmmm.
PATIENT: And I know what it's about because tonight I'm going to go read some of my work at this workshop thing, and I'm just not prepared for it. I didn't put enough time into it. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. An interesting dream. 
PATIENT: Awful. Just awful.
COUNSELOR: The searching for the script, searching for the right thing to say or the right way to be.
PATIENT: Well we went out last night and ... at this thing at Saks that we're going to try to win a trip to France and like, you know, I said, "I really shouldn't go. I've got all this work to do," and we went anyway and I got back ... I did work, but it was still different, and that was part of it. I was anxious all day and I was abusive to Beth and she's, "What's wrong?" and I said, "I know I'm not prepared." Either I'm not prepared or I'm scared. 
COUNSELOR: You've got ... you've got an audition or you've got a rehearsal?
PATIENT: No, like a ... they have like this open kind of stage night at this place called (inaudible name) Place which would be a good place for me to start doing my work. I'm taking a couple of things that I wrote and I'm going to kind of half perform and half read them. [0:04:16]
COUNSELOR: And that's happening tonight?
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. Yeah. Funny, because one piece I was reading to a friend yesterday, he was laughing hysterically and he said, "Oh my God, that's the best thing you've ever written! You've got to expand that!" I'm going, "I don't know, I just ... there's something about this piece ..." like ... here's like the trouble of not me listening to me. On this shoulder Steve Allen - you know Steve Allen, right?
COUNSELOR: Steve Allen the comedian?
PATIENT: Yeah, and this shoulder is Eric Bogosian - Eric Bogosian the monologist? 
COUNSELOR: Mmm hmm.
PATIENT: You know, you're pounding your head against some nails or something.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right.
PATIENT: And he's over here and he's going, "Oh, you say 'fuck' as much as you want, you know, you just take risk and people who don't take risks are babies on stage." And Steve Allen is going, "You know, you don't have to curse to be funny." I mean, he always said that about Eddie Murphy, who I thought was always ... was cursing to try and GET laughs, which I agree. Eddie Murphy is so talented, he never really needed ... or Richard Pryor.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Uh huh.
PATIENT: So it's like, you know, listen to Steve (chuckling) or listen to Eric Bogosian and then I was thinking, "But this character I wrote, it's not about him being foul (ph), that's who he is." He's a ... this is a bike messenger. This is the way these guys talk." But not until like Roger said, you know, "You have to do ..." I mean, it was nice to hear that. And then my ... and then I kind of advanced forward was thinking, I'm being interviewed by somebody and saying, "God, I just sat on this work for so long because I was too scared to do it until, you know, someone said 'I think you should do it. I believe in you.'" You know what I mean? It takes a lot of courage to do it on my own. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're going real fast. I'm trying to catch up with you. 
PATIENT: I know. I'm sorry. I'm nervous. [0:06:01]
COUNSELOR: I was almost thinking of the Steve Allen and the Bogosian ... You're nervous now?
PATIENT: No, I'm nervous about thinking about tonight.
COUNSELOR: So it's hard to sort of stay with the nervousness maybe, a little bit?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Instead of want to like figure it out or know what it's about or ...
PATIENT: Well I keep thinking, "Okay, well I'm going to go to work, but then I got to run after work and I've got to do my voices. When will I really have time? It's all those things about avoiding it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, because what would happen if ... if you felt it?
PATIENT: Yeah, and I'll jump forward again ... things I (inaudible at 0:06:32) now, but ...
COUNSELOR: No, wait, wait ... what would happen if you felt it? (both chuckle)
PATIENT: Well it's good when you feel it because that's what relieves it - I just realized it. I was going to relay that story. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, great.
PATIENT: It's not, it's just getting to that point where I can sit still and breathe long enough to experience it. Saturday, I had to meet Joe, my phobia aide.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) Wait a minute ... Wait a minute ... what's THIS story? I mean is this story ... is it ... is it ...?
PATIENT: Yeah. Direct. Real direct, right to what we're talking about.
COUNSELOR: Is it, though, also a way of avoiding the nervousness?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: If you tell the story?
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I'm not so sure about that, but go ahead.
PATIENT: Should I?
COUNSELOR: I don't know, you know, I mean, it's up to you, certainly. 
 
PATIENT: Well ... no, no it's not. It's not. I mean it was really valuable because I didn't want to go on the train Saturday. I was scared to death, I mean it was this make or break thing for me at a point because we were going to go on a train.  7th and Queens where Cory insisted it stops on its way into Times Square. So I was just really, really anxious, and I knew the next day, Sunday, I was taking the A train all the way from our place at Union Square to 101st to go to a friend's. I was really nervous about the whole weekend. So when Cory came, I said, "You know, I just ... I don't want to do this." I said, "Let's go have a beer someplace." And I said, "You're the only person I just pray that I make an appointment with and I pay that I pray you don't show up every week." So ... you know, and as ... [0:08:20]
COUNSELOR: So this is your panic (inaudible at 0:08:21 guy.
PATIENT: Yeah. So as we're going down - he (inaudible) - and as we're going down the sub ... 
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) I'm trying!
PATIENT: I've got you, I've got to get the nutritionist ...! And as we're going down, I'm thinking like, "God, I don't really feel ... I feel powerless and ..." I said, "Let's just go one stop. Let's not do a (inaudible at 0:08:41)." Feeling that ... and also feeling as well, you know, I really NEED to go through with this. So we got on the train and he said, "Well let's not take ..." usually we'll take levels and write how I feel every eight seconds tension from zero to 10. "So let's just stand in the front of the train and watch the trains and see what happens." And that was really successful, and then when we got on to the 7 train, then I felt very relaxed and I said, "This is really weird. I had to ride the train to get relaxed." He's like, "Well that's a great sign, isn't it?" And it's kind of the same thing as what I'm talking about. Here, it's like as soon as I'll allow myself to feel it, it's okay.
COUNSELOR: Mmm hmm. But somehow, I ... you know, I think we're still ... we're still waiting to get on the train and we're waiting, because there's something about telling stories and this and that and talking that keeps you from ....
PATIENT: Shows you how smart I am.
COUNSELOR: I am pretty smart too, I know what it's about.
PATIENT: No, no, I meant ... shows you how smart I am that I can avoid that.
COUNSELOR: That you can avoid the nervousness by talking? By talking about it? Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm rambling because I'm excited but I'm nervous at the same time. It's just like all eyes on me, like if it doesn't ... if I never get a laugh or if people don't react, it's going to be like, "Oh ..." you know, that would ... that takes a lot more courage to get up after THAT and go right again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's the thing that you're worried about. You're afraid that that's going to happen. [0:10:18]
PATIENT: And I know if I can ride the train, I can do that anytime, because nothing is scarier than that. You know?
COUNSELOR: Well I'm just ... you know, I'm having a hard time sort of ... keeping up. You're going very fast. 
PATIENT: What can I do to help?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. 
PATIENT: It is interesting, though, I mean because ... you know, the more entertaining that I'll be or the more stories that I'll tell, the easier it is to avoid that. Not that I don't want to be entertaining, and talk a lot, and tell stories, but I mean, it's different in here than it is in a group of people, you know, friends. 
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, there, I mean, with a group of friends and stuff, I mean that ... we're ALL going to be entertaining and I'm not going to sit down and go, "Well ..." to my friends, "Well I know I'm blocking about my fears and my anxiety right now, so I'm not going to be entertaining anymore. I'll just talk about how nervous I am." 
COUNSELOR: Well, I ... I know it's a little confusing in terms of what I'm ... what I'm sort of trying to point out here. But there's something about feeling like there's a lot of ... even talking about the nervousness seems to be almost a way of avoiding it. It feels that it's sort of frantic, it's like, "If I just keep talking, just keeping it forward, just keep telling stories, just keep relating what's going on in here to things that happened this weekend ..." you know, that seems to be just this running away from, just this real scary feeling of nervousness that you're afraid of. And, you know, I'm just wondering if it might not ... to try to get closer to the nervousness maybe you would find it useful just like ... I mean, you understand the principle of it - you've said it again and again. The experience is a little harder to get to. (inaudible at 0:12:50)
PATIENT: Yeah. The experience of being nervous is harder to get to?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the experience, not so much talking about it, but the experience. Because there's a big difference between talking about your nervousness and really FEELING it.
PATIENT: Right. Oh definitely. Yeah. I mean, I find myself doing that at work, it's like, "When is this going to be over?" and start thinking about all these things I have to do and then I start getting tension and start twitching my ears and I was thinking about that yesterday, "What's this about? What is this about? Just be relaxed." But I create the tension. The difference for me of experiencing it as opposed to creating it.
COUNSELOR: It's really familiar to you. (inaudible at 0:13:55) familiar.
PATIENT: I'm like, "Just do it right now, switch and tell your story."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. 
PATIENT: What do you suggest though, I mean, like when I'm in that situation and, you know, when I'm creating that tension, or I have it, is it something I just experience and say, "Okay, well this is here and I don't have to figure it out right now. I'm just experiencing it" as opposed to saying, "Well where's this coming from?" or to try and get rid of it and relax.
COUNSELOR: Well ... those are contradictions. "Should I try to figure out where it's coming from?" it's not going to let you feel it. And then, "Should I just get rid of it and relax?" Those two are very opposite crossing. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but I mean I know every situation is different. If I'm riding a train or I'm about to go on stage, well I'm going to relax. I'll do relaxation exercises.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But if I'm just sitting at work ...
COUNSELOR: Well you know it's my feeling that there's a lot of fear about feeling. There's a lot of fear about acknowledging nervousness, acknowledging vulnerability, you know, just... there's a lot of concerns about what that would feel like if people (inaudible at 0:15:20) concerns about yourself and your competence and ... so there's a lot of reasons to try and ...
PATIENT: Oh, absolutely. 
COUNSELOR: So, you know, there's ... that's ... I think all that stuff goes with why it's so difficult for you to experience. I think if you were a little bit more comfortable with your vulnerability, with your insecurity, it might not be so (inaudible at 0:15:50), it might not be so hard to feel it.
PATIENT: Maybe.
COUNSELOR: And, you know, you might actually find that your insecurities and vulnerabilities are actually really, with time, they might become really important resources for your work (0:16 11).
PATIENT: Yeah, no I agree. I mean, because right now I'm just censoring all the time, censoring myself. The hard part ... I was talking with another writer that I met, published and I said, "I've got 40 stories all in second-draft stages. The most exciting part for me is writing it, and the work comes after it. A novel idea is not fun any more. It's work and I don't want to sit that work.
COUNSELOR: What made you make the connection to that?
PATIENT: It's painful.
COUNSELOR: It's painful.
PATIENT: I avoided ... I'm just giving myself a task and say, "Okay, well I'm going to write a draft. I'm going to finish this story." It's finished. It's finished. (inaudible at 0:17:01)
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure I understand that ... the connection between that and your vulnerability.
PATIENT: Well because it's painful to ... to look at that, just go back and go, "Oh God, that story is sitting there. I'm going to have to go, it's going to be painful, I'm going to have to sit in here and experience this uncomfortable feeling of not wanting to write and why don't I want to write."
COUNSELOR: So it's just easier to fight through the insecurity?
PATIENT: Yep.
COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense of what's going on for you now?
PATIENT: I'm depressed.
COUNSELOR: You seem to sort of just ...
PATIENT: (makes a declining sound) 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You yawn and just look kind of ...
PATIENT: I'm tired because ...
COUNSELOR: ... tired look.
PATIENT: ... because you're right, I mean, it's such a mask for me to cover up and be energetic and tell stories and all of a sudden I'm having more energy when I have to sit here and go, "How am I feeling now?"
COUNSELOR: So it can't be like ... well I don't think depression necessarily comes with accepting your vulnerability. But for you right now, it does)?
PATIENT: I don't know if I'm necessarily depressed, I'm just tired. You know what that means to just sit here and experience, it means I can't be heightened. I just have to BE. Just being is scary to me. 
COUNSELOR: Hmm. (inaudible at 0:18:47)
PATIENT: Well you know, just ... just ... you see people and they're like ... very (inaudible) they're just (inaudible) and they're experiencing their surroundings, you know, and it's okay where they are. That's always frightening to me.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like Forrest Gump or something (chuckling).
PATIENT: I went ... took a bike ride over to Brooklyn Bridge for the first time and I was sitting down at the promenade. It's a thing I've always wanted to do, but I noticed I was really tense the entire time thinking, "Wow, it's a river away. I can't get home," like "What if I get a flat tire on the bridge?" And it was just frightening. It was scary. It was this gorgeous day and I was just tense as can be. And then I was sitting there and going, "All right. All right. Let's just ... It's okay. I have everything it takes to fix a flat tire. I know I've been in worse situations than this - emergencies I've gotten through." But besides, that's not even important. And I know that if I HAD an emergency, I WOULDN'T be nervous because then I would have something to focus on, but let's just [look at the building at] (ph) Manhattan ... [0:20:09]
And then I just think Forrest Gump and I was just like, "Yeah, this is good. Yeah. I'm okay. It's all right." But it took so much anxiety ... blow through this layer of film of anxiety. It just, you know, relax. And then after I realized it's OKAY to be relaxed and be who I am. It was nice.
COUNSELOR: Is that who you are?
PATIENT: Well I was. It was nice. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It was a good feeling?
PATIENT: Yeah, it was great. And then I ... I was reading the paper going, "This is good. This is real good." 
COUNSELOR: So what ... when you were feeling it in here a few minutes ago, what was that? (inaudible at 0:20:49) felt uncomfortable (inaudible).
PATIENT: I guess because it's that I don't know how to really explain it but, you know, it's like I'll come in and it's like doing my tap shoe and (chuckling) and my thing for you and I'm avoiding whatever it is I'm avoiding or maybe I'm not. Maybe I'm really not. Maybe you're manipulating me and you're saying to me, "There's something else under there. You're really not happy. You're not excited. You should get [down to it] (ph). I don't know. But then the ... now I've lost myself. What was the question again?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that was really interesting! (chuckling) I kind of got distracted too. 
PATIENT: Sorry. But you had asked me what it was ... was that the same feeling in here.
COUNSELOR: So when you come in here, it's like, you know, a bit of ... performance.
PATIENT: Well there's the expectation we talk about.
COUNSELOR: The expectation of doing something that I want you to do or ...
PATIENT: Yeah, or feel I need to do and ...
COUNSELOR: But the entertaining part.
PATIENT: Right. And then ...
COUNSELOR: It's that too in here.
PATIENT: So when I come off of that entertainment high or that energy, then it's like (makes deflating noise). You know, now what do I do? [0:22:08]
COUNSELOR: So there's some ... a sense of wanting to entertain me or to charm me or ...
PATIENT: Or avoid me.
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. But I wonder how it plays out between us, you know, that - what would it be like to be yourself in front of me? What would I think? You know, would I get bored if I were to find out who you REALLY are or what you really feel or ...?
PATIENT: You've got glimpses of that.
COUNSELOR: I've got ...
PATIENT: I mean it's ALL the real me. But, I mean, I know what you're saying. 
COUNSELOR: But you had the reaction to that, maybe my ... something that I hear or something about what I said that didn't sit right with you?
PATIENT: No, no, I just ... no, for me, I know it's ALL me and I don't apologize for any of that. And ...
COUNSELOR: And so it felt a little ... something I said felt a little ...
PATIENT: No, I was just kind of clarifying not so much what you SAID, but I'm clarifying it for myself I would say ... agree with you and then think, "Well, that's not true because that's me too. Entertaining and the energy is me too. Then when that energy is done, it's like, you know you step off stage, it's like "(sigh) I'm tired. What's it all about?" I guess that's what it's like for actors being on stage, you know, they're doing this and they're avoiding everything that's happening in their lives and then they get off stage and they realize, "Well, I've got to go home and pay bills and clean the toilet now." And my cleaning the toilet I guess (chuckling) is being in here, talking about things I don't want to talk about.
COUNSELOR: I've gotten a real weird sense of today of us working of this funny kind of ...
PATIENT: I'm really not TRYING to do this. Now I'm really trying to work and be focused.
COUNSELOR: Well I think what ... well I'm not .. I'm not ... I'm not, really not trying to blame you. I'm sensing somehow that we're not sometimes working together. And I'm wondering ... you know, or have a sense of we're co-...
PATIENT: Chasing the (inaudible at 0:23:59).
COUNSELOR: It feels a bit ... it feels a bit like ... I don't know who's chasing whom, but I think perhaps I'm chasing you and trying to sort of say, "Let's run together" and feeling like ... that's hard right now. Because what happens in here is very particular to you and me, although I think it probably has some implications for what happens between you and Beth and you and your friends and you and your family. But I'm getting this, you know, I'm having a hard time sort of ... working with you in terms of understanding what's happening between us. Like you take the ball and you run with it. Take these things that I say and either blame yourself in it or just want to apply it to another story. And I'm feeling a little, I think, left out, like, "Hey, ..." Does that make any sense to you at all?
PATIENT: Yeah. Definitely.
COUNSELOR: Yeah? 
PATIENT: It does.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh? Okay.
PATIENT: So what can we do so we're in the same car?
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if you have any other reactions to what I said.
PATIENT: What you said?
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Are you just going to ... are you just ... I don't know, going to give me a break here or are you going to ... is there any other reaction you have? Does it not make sense?
PATIENT: No, it makes perfect sense. I mean, I'll do the same thing with other ... I mean, different ... because of our relationship and my relationship with anybody else. But no, I think that's pretty ... hits the nail on the head. Definitely.
COUNSELOR: So what is it about us working together on (inaudible) [that you find] (ph) difficult? [0:26:09]
PATIENT: Well I don't know. I think because when I come in, you know, through the door and I was all, "Okay, what am I going to bring to this today? What am I going to talk about?" So I figured, well I'll talk about what's upsetting to me, my dream. And then I kind of took off from there.
COUNSELOR: Is it a bit like it's your show in here?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) And you don't want me to be in ...
PATIENT: Well I know that intellectually you should be on stage with me, but ...
COUNSELOR: I want top billing there, you know?
PATIENT: Right. Right. Well I don't know. I don't know why ... I really don't know why I feel like I have to come in ... I guess because the silence is so hard. You know, like, what would we do to stay ... you know, going through this a hundred times before like when we just stare at each other and ...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Would it get kind of uncomfortable and [then what do you feel?] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: But, you know, on the other hand sort of running away from it, maybe you could like just keep at it and figure out what it is.
PATIENT: See that gets confusing to me because if I come in here and say, "Well I don't have to talk," then I'll think, "Well am I not talking because now that's what I'm supposed to be doing?" 
COUNSELOR: So you always have to have a plan before you come in here? 
PATIENT: Yes. 
COUNSELOR: Why don't you just let whatever happens happen?
PATIENT: I don't know how to do that.
COUNSELOR: Well maybe this is a good place to start.
PATIENT: Yeah, it could. I'll try next week. (both chuckle) Well I can't go from now because we're already ... we've driven miles already out of our way.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you'll just keep driving us down here ...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ... since we ... I'll be in the back seat.
PATIENT: No, why don't you drive?
COUNSELOR: Why don't I drive? [0:28:06]
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) Oh no ...
PATIENT: You should drive. 
COUNSELOR: Well I guess I'm driving a bit right now. 
PATIENT: No, you are. Shift down a bumpy road, I guess.
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) You don't like the road a chose? 
PATIENT: I mean it's all those things, well if, like you know, it's like, okay, well ... like what you're saying now, should I ... how am I going to react to that, should I react to that in a different way, is this something that I want to take and use, you know what I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: It sounds like ... well I'm not sure. Can you say a little bit more about that?
PATIENT: Well, I'm trying to ... like, the things that I've learned in here for myself that I like, to make my own decisions and what's important to me, never whining ... John ... not John, Martin and I were talking about this ... friends, this couple who come here and they said, "Well, how's your shrink?" And (inaudible at 0:29:07) "Does she ever tell you ... make suggestions, say what to do?" I said, I know there's all different kinds of therapies here. "Not really," I said, "It's never really like you'll ask a direct question and you'll get like a direct answer or suggestions? Not really." "Well that's good. That's ... so I know we're on the same wavelength." And ... those things ... that I like. 
COUNSELOR: That I don't give suggestions.
PATIENT: In the beginning, that's ... this is what I want. You would ... I would say what I'd want for you to say, "Wouldn't it make sense if you did this or didn't do this, you'd feel a certain way" and you've never done that. Which used to piss me off. But now, I mean I really learned that it IS much better the other way. I AM thinking for myself. You're kind of a sound board that kind of keeps me on track, on the road, when I'm jerking off, you get me back into the game (both chuckle). So ... in that sense it's good, but then ... so I'm trying to learn ... I'm trying to ... so that, I like. But then there might be something else and you'll say, "Well, maybe you should stay with your feelings here." Well maybe those ARE my feelings where I'm at now. How do I know? Where do I say, "Well all right, I'll go with it. I'll let her drive now." As opposed to like fight over the wheel. [0:30:29]
COUNSELOR: But I don't recall you ever really FIGHTING with me over the wheel. 
PATIENT: Well maybe in my head I am.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That's what's so difficult for me sometimes I think. That makes it hard for me to know "Wait, he just got the wheel. How did he get the wheel? (chuckling) He told that story. That's how he got the wheel. He distracted me. He said, 'Look out there' and he grabbed the wheel." You know, it would be different, I think, if you kind of just said, "You know, this IS what I'm feeling right now." Then I'd, you know ...
PATIENT: Well I guess because there's truth to it when you go (ph), "Okay, well what are you avoiding?" in essence. I mean, there's truth to that. Because I ... because working in here, I agree, that's a thing I want to do is be focused on how I'm feeling. This whole thing with my family not being able to show feelings. By the way, I just have to drive over this scenic outlook and tell you that I, you know, I did talk to my mother about ...
COUNSELOR: Now why are you doing that now?
PATIENT: Because it was ... because we spoke about this.
COUNSELOR: Right, but I think this is kind of important, what you're saying. You know, I think you're telling me something important and I want to get it.
PATIENT: Well all right, um ... you know, those ... that to me is important is to want to experience how I feel. And so if I get pissed off at you, it's only because then I can't stay with where I'm at, I can't stay on stage. And I've got to go back downstairs in the dressing room, keep preparing. [0:32:12] 
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if at those times when you're just ... you're just convincing yourself that I know BETTER what you're feeling than you do.
PATIENT: Well see, that's what I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: But that would be sort of familiar to you, isn't it that ... you know, another step to defer to say this and not to trust yourself.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Not to take the risk and say, "Hey, wait a minute, I think I know what's going on here" even to sort of get angry if I seem to be missing something you think is important that you really are feeling that that's who you are and what's going on. 
PATIENT: Mmm hmm.
COUNSELOR: I might not really be getting it.
PATIENT: Yeah. Very rarely (inaudible at 0:33:02).
COUNSELOR: You rarely ...
PATIENT: Do that - tell you maybe you're not getting it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I've ... but I think ...
PATIENT: Or you ARE getting it. 
COUNSELOR: It seems to HAPPEN sometimes. 
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. But I was ... so if I came in this morning and did that and go, "Well no, this is how I AM feeling. I'm not avoiding anything." So then what would you say?
COUNSELOR: Well it would be so INTERESTING here! I don't KNOW what I'd say. I don't know. 
PATIENT: I know what you'd say, you go, "Well there seems to be a little anger attached to that."
COUNSELOR: Oh no! (laughs)
PATIENT: "Let's talk about that anger."
COUNSELOR: Oh, I hate the way that sounds.
PATIENT: But you would say something like that. Or anyone in your position would. Because isn't that your job?
COUNSELOR: Well maybe then you don't want any supervision (inaudible at 0:33:49) maybe ...
PATIENT: Oh no ... (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Maybe I need a little direction from YOU. 
PATIENT: But I mean ... right? I mean isn't that your job? Because we don't talk about how happy I am. We only talk about the things that bother me, right? 
COUNSELOR: No, I don't know why you have that impression (ph).
PATIENT: I never felt that way. [0:34:09]
COUNSELOR: Well I don't think that's it's MY fault. (chuckles)
PATIENT: Well if I would say something about that, and you go, "Well I think something is behind that." You'd say, "I think there's something behind ... something must be bothering you. Where's all this energy coming from?" And then maybe I would interpret it and go, "(inaudible 0:34:27) something bothering."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. I've often felt that I have a lot of power that way that would make you doubt yourself.
PATIENT: Do you take advantage of it?
COUNSELOR: Um ... sometimes I probably do. But you know, I never like the consequences though. But I like to be right. Of course I like to be right, have you think I'm smart, know what I'm doing ...
PATIENT: Well I DO think you you're smart and know what you're doing ... sometimes.
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) Yeah. (both chuckle)
PATIENT: I judge you more now. Every week.
COUNSELOR: No, it's up to you, though, to assert yourself and tell me if I'm not getting it.
PATIENT: Right, no, I do feel better about that. I really do. I didn't ... I didn't feel today that you weren't getting it. You know, I felt ... well exactly what happened. You said, "Why are you racing so fast?" I ... I think because of, you know, being nervous and knowing that I DO avoid things and WILL put on a show. But also, that that's okay, that I CAN put on a show. That's who I am. It's my temperament. Except for when really important that I need to choose when to do that and when not to do that. 
COUNSELOR: And to have a choice.
PATIENT: Yeah. That feels good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: All right, let's go.
COUNSELOR: All right. Now wait a minute. Boy, we tied that one up.
PATIENT: I don't know how tied up it is, but that is good ...that ... the hugest (ph) thing is you do have a choice, that's true. You know, I'm still doing things about, like, I'm not making decisions or saying how I feel, you know, this week too about worrying about how somebody else is going to feel and react to me. I did that with my boss at work, which isn't good. Ended up committing myself to two different things (inaudible) and realizing and going, "God, I haven't learned anything. I'm still doing the same thing." [0:36:31]
COUNSELOR: Well it's hard. Change isn't ...
PATIENT: I mean he's sitting there asking me about working and I KNOW I can't work for him, and I'm saying I can. 
COUNSELOR: To please him.
PATIENT: Please him, to be liked, a small part of it because it might work out better for me financially, you know, but mostly simply because I'm there. I'm his man. I'm there. You know, I know he doesn't give a s*** about me. 
COUNSELOR: He really doesn't have your best interests.
PATIENT: No. So, so selfish. 
COUNSELOR: Mmm hmm.
PATIENT: And then ... and me thinking even saying now to myself, "I don't have to have this job. I'd hate to lose it because it's so damn easy, but I can always do something else." My friend Will always says, "F*** him, you know? Because you don't need this job." And it's true. In some ways. Just the easiest thing that I've ever done for the money. 
COUNSELOR: And it's easy to do that. I mean, you do that, that's a pattern, right?
PATIENT: Well it's ... what's that, leaving?
COUNSELOR: Well to sort of sacrifice your own needs, what you feel is right and best for you, to please other people.
PATIENT: Yeah, well yesterday I went to him and I just said, "Look, I've made a huge mistake. I double-booked myself. I've got to get out of this working for you Friday night." I just planted the seed with him. Because I made the commitment with the other people first. It's cash. But I mean even ... there's a hard part. I'm not ... I want to come up with this great way to phrase this so other people can use it, but I don't know how to ... about, like, being able to say, "Okay, September first, I'm leaving this job. I'm going to make money as an artist. I'm not going to need this job anymore." Okay, there's one way to think positively. But the other way is to be realistic. Because I've done this before and it hasn't worked. And I've been worse off and say, and end up having to look for another job. So how do you know the difference between being positive and say, "I'm going to get this and I'm not going to need this job" as opposed to being realistic and saying, "You know, I don't want to be ... I don't think I'll be here, but I may need to be here." Because it's always ... I'll always be able to fall back on it knowing that it's there. You know what I'm saying? You know, people are always saying ...you read all the books and they'll say, "Unless you take that leap, let go and KNOW that you can let go" - I guess the difference is just like you said last week, it's not a thing that you do, it's a state of being, a state of being that knowing that "I don't really have to have this job. I'm good enough. I'm resourceful enough and a good enough businessperson to be able to get myself out of this job." [0:39:34]
COUNSELOR: Is there something about that (inaudible) kind of sad?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't want to let ... it's scary to let go of that job. And in the past, I've done it just to say, "Okay, I'm going to do it and I'm going to throw caution to the wind" and ended up screwing myself, you know, with money. But I think the difference is there's definitely a difference between saying it and doing it. And I don't know what it will take for me to believe in myself that I CAN let go and do it. I guess little tiny successes. 
COUNSELOR: So the concern still isn't the work, still in learning to believe in yourself [and that's hard] (ph) 
PATIENT: Mmm hmm.
COUNSELOR: And I sense that that brings up some ... I mean I ... I get the feeling that brings up some strong feelings in you (inaudible) the quest for some kind of self-acceptance and peace [of mind] (ph).
PATIENT: It must, because I was reading this article and this woman decided to take up boxing - she's a writer for The New York Times - and there's one line in there and she wrote she was "My trainer kept saying, you know, 'Boxing you have to have heart' and I finally know what 'heart' means, 'heart' means 'desire.'" And I had endless bounds of desire and it's like I started to cry reading this article because, you know, people who had somebody in their - like Rocky movies, I love Rocky movies because they're always in there, going, they're screaming, "No pain! No pain! No pain!" just slapping him around and says, "No pain! You're the best! You're the best!" It's like I cry every time I watch it because nobody's ever told me that, you know? If somebody could just slap me in the head all the time and go, "You're the best! You're the best! No pain! No pain!" like, you know? That would be great. And she had this from this trainer. "You've got heart, girl." You know? And that's why it's so important that children need this, you know, and I never got that. It's just awful. You know, with my little brother, I tell him that all the time when I was working with him, you know, "You're the best. You're so handsome. You're so intelligent and creative." He'd get so embarrassed. It was so ... because he never got that. It was like, "You're an idiot." That's all we got at home. "You're a loser." 
COUNSELOR: And you didn't get that. [0:42:02]
PATIENT: No, so every time I see that or hear, it just makes me cry, I mean I ... it just reinforces how much I need that. We all need that. 
COUNSELOR: A lot of anger about not getting that.
PATIENT: Yeah. Not a lot. I mean, it's waning. 
COUNSELOR: Is it?
PATIENT: It depends. I mean, it depends when you hit me. You know, when I had a final talk with my mother the other Sunday, I didn't feel anger ... I had anger, I wrote a lot of anger in my letter. I got a letter from her, I wrote her a letter back and told her she has to be responsible for healing because it's the only way we can have a relationship. And when we talked on the phone, she said, "Well, hit me with it." And I said, "I hit you with everything. I just want to know what your response is." And as she's talking, I'm still thinking, "You know, it's just not going to be good," but the one thing that I DID say that I didn't want to say that was so hard was to say, you know, what I've learned in here is that ... she keeps saying, "We'll have to try to get along" and I said, "It's been 30 years trying. It's not going to work. You don't get it." And I ... you know, and I said, "You know, it's really okay if we don't all get along. Who said we all had to get along all the time? And who said that ..." and I said, "What I need from you, Mom, is like when you're frustrated or when you're angry or when you're sad, just say that." I said, "You've never shown me how you felt. You've always told me and everybody else that we just ... you'll get over it. Just be happy." And she said something that was so surprising that I actually believed her. She said, "You know what? You're right." She said, "We've just never really learned how to communicate our feelings with one another, have we?" So it was really nice. It was one of the few things in there that I actually bought from her. Another thing is I think she was trying hard to say the right thing (inaudible) from. So I ... you know, I leave the conversation and go, "All right, well let's see what happens." And what she asked for in return was that when I'm angry with her, tell her, "I'm angry at you, I'm not going to talk to you for a while now." She said, "As long as I know." [0:44:30]
COUNSELOR: Wow. Looks like you got through to each other.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [And you got through to her?] (ph)
PATIENT: I think a little bit anyway. But thank you for your help. 
COUNSELOR: Hey, I'm not the one that had that conversation.
PATIENT: Yeah, but you ... no, but I mean it was helpful. And I just want you to know because I DO ... because I DO like having you happy for me, because I feel like I'm this close to being cured of my train phobia. Really, really close. I don't want to say yet because I don't ... I can't say, "Okay, I'm going downtown." Well of course we'll take a subway, we're taking a subway and we're going downtown. See I still say that first because that still brings anxiety to it. But getting through the other day was just tremendous, and then taking the train to 101st Street which is on the train for 30 minutes. The only thing that made me nervous was guys getting on drinking beer, playing really loud rap music on the train. And finally someone said to me, "What are you graphing?" 
COUNSELOR: What are you ...?
PATIENT: Because I do a graph. I keep a graph the entire time. And now, I'm actually looking forward to seeing Cory tomorrow, because we're going to go downtown. He thinks we're going to go on the train that's going to slow, but each time we go on the train, it's supposed to slow, it's never slowed where it's supposed to be. And just ... and it doesn't need to be, because me thinking that it will makes me nervous, which is good - nerves are good because then I can work on it, control it, so ... [0:46:11]
COUNSELOR: You mean when you're on a train and it slows down that's when ...
PATIENT: Well I realized ... I was just sitting there, and I realized that the train was slow and there were these kids ... trying to sit with kids ... whenever I get nervous, I look at their eyes and they're just, "Aaah!" very relaxing, and ... but I was just sitting there and all of a sudden it just hit me, I go, "Wait a second ..." even though I knew this, it was like, "This train, or this stalled train has nothing to do with the way I feel. Nothing. It's just my interpretation of it." And that's fucked up my interpretation of it, I don't need to feel that way. And I realize ... which is nothing ... kind of like what, you know, we were talking about in here is that when I first get that fear, the tingling in my toes and I feel my bowels start to go, I go, that's just totally harmless. It doesn't mean anything. You know? So it's kind of nice balance. 
COUNSELOR: You're taking the danger out of that (inaudible at 0:47:10).
PATIENT: And if a real emergency WOULD happen, I wouldn't be anxious, I learned, because then I'd have to fix ... I'd actually be doing something, I'd be dealing with the danger. 
COUNSELOR: I don't understand.
PATIENT: Well let's say somebody comes on the train and they're going to put a gun to Beth's head and take her and try to rape her in the back of the car. It's my biggest fear. (inaudible at 0:47:31). Or fires on the train. Well then there's something really for me to focus on. I can't focus on the fear of fear, because before that, that's all it is - me being afraid that this might happen, which turns into panic for me. 
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like your fear of riding the train or the panic that comes from it ... like horrible fantasy like that (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well ... no, I mean the fear ... the panic comes from me being afraid the train will stop and something horrible would happen. [0:48:02]
COUNSELOR: That something horrible would happen.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, that's why I've said I'm so much more comfortable if I were to be in a stopped elevator. I'd rather be alone, because I wouldn't be embarrassed if something dangerous, somebody else freaking out and you know ... but if they did, probably ... I learned it would be okay because then I actually have something real to focus on. The other thing isn't real. It's fake. 
COUNSELOR: Mmmm. Interesting. 
PATIENT: It's been a good learning experience for other aspects of my life.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Uh huh. Interesting to hear that. I'm glad it's worked out so well for you. 
PATIENT: Well thanks. He's ... he's been really ... in an odd little way, it's been very, very helpful. He's been doing it for 20 years and when I hear him telling me about, you know, people ... the woman he sees before me is agoraphobic I go, "God, I've got it made compared to what she has to deal with." You know, I imagine my panic multiplied a hundred times. She can't go here, she can't go there, she can't go out ... she is now, but ... such a bad ... such a bad thing. Somehow I want to be able to translate this, to be able to help other people with it. I'm not an expert and I don't want to pretend to even BE a phobia aide, I'm not trained in it, but I for some way, I just want to develop some kind of outline to be able to be ... what do you call these guys - like Les Brown - motivational speakers. To be able to share that. I have a friend that's deathly afraid of elevators. I give her this guy's number and I tell her my experiences and she won't do it. She's never going to have that panic because she's never going to get on an elevator again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I wish she could. I wish she could see the benefit of pain and how good it is to be in pain and then get through it. The rewards are twice as great the more pain you're in. I realized that Saturday. 
COUNSELOR: And the satisfaction of being able to face up to the pain and have the courage to...
PATIENT: Well yeah, I got that ... I was feeling so nervous and I got down to the train and I was just like, "This is too big, going through with this." But doing is, I think is desire. It goes back to the heart and desire. As long as you have that desire, you can ... you can get through it. It's hard when you ... when you have the desire but you don't believe it. I mean, I have the desire to, you know, be a great actor, but that fear always gets in the way. Or I have the desire to have the chiseled body that I want, but I don't feel like spending two hours in the gym today. [0:50:56]
COUNSELOR: What about tonight? Can you face up to that?
PATIENT: No, I'll be there. I will definitely, absolutely.
COUNSELOR: Pain of failure?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well we'll see if it feels like failure. I mean I ...
COUNSELOR: I guess it's the risk you're always taking ...
PATIENT: Well I'm going to go. There's no way that I would not go. Anytime I don't feel like doing it, I just think about train rides, you know? Facing that and I guess I just have to apply it more on a daily basis of doing something instead of avoiding it. Because when you're your own boss, you don't have to. I go to work, I'll go to work now and I'll polish silver and I'll do whatever I have to do and stay. Why don't I do that with myself? Why don't I say, "Okay, I'm going to work now. It's 10:00. And I'm going to do A, B, C, D for so many hours." (tape ends)
END TRANSCRIPT
