Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:00:25).
CLIENT: I don't want to do the work (inaudible at 00:00:34) advisor. (Pause) it's boring work and it's pointless and it's frustrating, and they're just a bunch of stupid gotchas that don't have anything to do with the topic (inaudible at 00:01:02) researching but just have to do with the fact that the tool sets we have all suck, and aren't documented properly. And it's frustrating to use and I don't even care about the project. [00:01:13]
THERAPIST: Sorry, what's a "gotcha?"
CLIENT: It's just — I use it as finite element analysis tool to solve Maxwell's equations and the silicon (inaudible at 00:01:25). And the stupid fucking thing will just like crap out with an error after a half an hour of finding out a problem without telling me why it's failing. It passes all of the verification checks before I tell it to start solving, and then I'll grind and grind and grind, and waste my time grinding and then it won't produce an answer and there's nothing that tells me why. The error just says, you know, "unidentified error" in the solution range where I click. It's stupid and it's frustrating and I'm sick of it. I don't even care about the project. I don't care about my thesis. (Pause) With that said, I'm frustrated with myself that I can't just can't, you know, sit down and do work on it because if I don't get my act together — like my adviser said and we're meeting again tomorrow. If I don't get my act together, she's not going to (inaudible at 00:02:29) my thesis. She's not going to write me a letter of recommendation. The whole last two years I sit in grad school will be — I won't get any credit for it with employers. And I'm just shooting myself in the foot by being stubborn about not wanting to do this. And it's really frustrating and upsetting. I didn't get any work done on my project yesterday or today. I just sat around in my office reading a book on my Kindle and/or playing games and/or just staring at the wall being upset and (pause). [00:03:04]
THERAPIST: Have you — I'm not sure if you've been too upset to think about this or not, but have you thought much about whether there's a way out of this?
CLIENT: Meaning?
THERAPIST: Some way you could alter your thesis or two different projects, or find some way of doing something for your advisor that would keep you enough in her good graces that you could graduate and get a letter and not have to work on this project which is driving you nuts? [00:04:18]
CLIENT: I don't know. My advisor made it pretty clear Tuesday when we spoke to each other, and that she expected something out of this project. And she's really pissed that I didn't do good enough work in the fall that the funders renewed her funding. And she's really pissed that I'm not staying for the PhD, and she has to scramble to find a student to pick up this work in the fall. So I don't think there's anything I can do for her other than get this done. And you know the theses are due in six weeks. It's entirely too late to do a whole n'other project.
THERAPIST: What matters to her from this project? [00:05:08]
CLIENT: I don't even know; that is the thing. This is not in her primary field of expertise. She doesn't really know this field at all. She doesn't understand half the work I'm doing, so I don't know what's in it for her. It's really frustrating.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: I'm hesitating because, like, I'm completely ignorant about this. But I wonder if that's worth asking her about.
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: I mean, you feel bad for letting her down. [00:06:05]
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: That's not what you set out to do, or is it because you think she's so horrible that you didn't want to do work for her, I don't think.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: And so, I mean, you feel plenty bad about that and you would, I think, like apart from the benefits for you, want to try to help her out.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:06:31).
THERAPIST: So is that a conversation you can have with her about, like, how you can do that or what about this project matters most to her? Or is sort of the most important in part because, you know, there's some parts of it that I guess are very difficult and frustrating and seem pointless to you. But if there's a way of, like — see how some of it may have a point to her. [00:07:15]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It may just have a point, you know, or, like, maybe the stuff that matters to her can be done without doing all the stuff that you think is stupid or —
CLIENT: Well —
THERAPIST: Is it going to work? I don't understand.
CLIENT: I think the whole project is stupid. I mean, what she wants to prove is that through noise coupling from these structured cults through (inaudible at 00:07:38) ideas, you can flip a bit in a circuit thus leading to incorrect circuit performance. Which, I don't know, the work I've done for the last ten months has convinced me that that's just not true. You can flip a bit, there's just no way. This is actually a perfectly safe operation and she keeps wanting me to prove something that like — she wants me to prove that one is equal to minus one and it's just — it's stupid. It can't be done. And I mean, certainly the noise coupling from these three oxide via things things can change the timing of a circuit can cause, you know, slight errors in fidelity, but there are like four other research groups who are doing this work better than she is. Because the professors in charge are actually device physicists or semiconductor physicists or, you know, circuit guys as opposed to — you know, my advisor does computational bio stuff. What the fuck does she know about circuits? [00:08:38]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I feel really — I feel like she wasn't honest with me about what her background was. Because I mean, on her website she talks about how, you know, she works for JAW and she did this that and the other circuit research, and bla, bla, bla. But then after I'd already committed to working with her, she was like, actually, I don't know any of this stuff. It's been like twenty years since I did any circuit stuff, and I've been doing nothing but computational bio for ten years, and you know more about this stuff than I do. And I was like, I'm a first year grad student (inaudible at 00:09:16).
THERAPIST: That's not what you want to hear.
CLIENT: Like —
THERAPIST: And bullshit. [00:09:21]
CLIENT: I feel like she really led me on about her background and experience in this field, and I don't think that was fair to me. But I'm stuck with it and I have to write a thesis with her and I don't agree with her entire approach to this problem. Her entire approach is — it's the approach of a computer scientist not an architect (inaudible at 00:09:49).
THERAPIST: And is it too late to (inaudible at 00:09:58) approach? I mean, even if you could convince her that her approach is bullshit?
CLIENT: Yeah I think it is, not if I want to graduate in (inaudible at 00:10:06).
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:10:07]
CLIENT: I mean, I could — in theory I could retroactively withdraw for the semester and come back in the fall with a new advisor and do something. But I don't know who would take me on. I don't know who has funding to pay for a student.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And —
CLIENT: And really, I just want to be done.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Is it possible to actually finish what you're working on? I mean, you're describing (inaudible at 00:10:43).
CLIENT: If I could get me head out of my ass and, like, actually focus and stop spending all day every day fucking around, yes I could get it done. But those are some pretty big ifs. [00:10:52]
THERAPIST: I understand, but in spite of the pitfalls, like the, I guess, "gotchas" you called them.
CLIENT: I mean, a thesis doesn't have to be good to graduate.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: I mean, plenty of people graduate with complete bullshit theses, and well, it certainly hurts my pride. [00:11:10]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:11:11) be able to sit on a library shelf and gather dust pretty much (inaudible at 00:11:14).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And dissertation for that matter, yeah.
CLIENT: I just —
THERAPIST: So it's a matter of like, you're doing something that you feel like shit about.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, and I'm dropping the one class I'm taking this spring. It was just —
THERAPIST: Which (inaudible at 00:11:38) would you like?
CLIENT: I'd liked, but —
THERAPIST: It was hard if I remember right.
CLIENT: And I don't have the math background. You know, I skated through differential equations as an undergrad. And I was with the — it was a (inaudible at 00:11:53) really, really bad depressive episode that I wasn't getting treated for. So I hardly remember anything from (inaudible at 00:11:59).
THERAPIST: When you say you skated through, do you mean like, you didn't work or —
CLIENT: Like did the bare minimum to get a C and pass. [00:12:07]
THERAPIST: Okay got you.
CLIENT: I certainly didn't —
THERAPIST: Yeah, of course, you don't remember (inaudible at 00:12:12).
CLIENT: -- learn anything on a deep level, and I never took linear algebra. I just picked up what I needed from reading books and, you know, catching lectures (inaudible at 00:12:25) classes and lectures online. I just picked up what I needed here, there as I needed it for a project I was working on, but I never studied it formally. And this class just and for all the professor claims, he's not a mathematician or this is not a math class. It really does require a fairly rigorous formal math background. At least half the students have had analysis which I haven't had in any form. Even though technically, the only prereq is linear algebra which I just — I'm capable of learning the math, but not at the same time that I'm trying to learn more complex applications, and while I'm embroiled in this thesis mess. [00:13:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah and depressed.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I feel like shit about it, but better than trying to push myself and failing the class. I just —
THERAPIST: And you don't need the class to graduate?
CLIENT: No. Not if I do a two credit thesis. The options of my program are a one credit project which I would feel so much better about. I could just write up what I have and submit it as a project. But then I'd only have nine credits, whereas if I submitted a full-up thesis, that's two credits worth and I would have the full ten I need to graduate.
THERAPIST: And there's not way to get the other credit if you were to change your thesis to one credit project?
CLIENT: No not unless I stay in this class. [00:13:59]
THERAPIST: Right, which would be less doable than the thesis? I guess here's what I'm wondering about. Like are there any arrangements you could broker with your advisor such as doing some research for her over the summer, something like that. That would again, like, give her more of what she would want than your thesis would anyway, and make your life easier.
CLIENT: That's a good point. So I'm registered for a masters' project credit for the fall. Because when fall started I wasn't sure if this was going to be a project or a thesis. I could go to her and ask if I could drop the thesis credit, submit a project instead of a thesis. Get this paper done and keep the class. (Pause) I'd still be juggling, you know, writing up a project and I still have to get this paper submitted by March 15<sup>th</sup> and trying to do this class which is a struggle for me. [00:15:10]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I think in some ways it would almost be easier to find a math tutor and really cram the math than — yeah, I guess I can — that's actually a really good idea. I should bring it up with her tomorrow and see what she says. And if I offer to work with her over the summer, I think that would go a long way towards having her not be resentful of me. I just — this whole thing was such a cluster fuck.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm just, I'm so angry at myself because I should have seen that this was a cluster fuck in the making before I signed on with her. I should have worked harder to find another professor who actually knows what the fuck they're doing to work with. (Pause)
THERAPIST: She wasn't exactly forthcoming either. (Pause) (inaudible at 00:16:48) she hasn't been much help.
CLIENT: I mean, she tries to be, she's met with me twice a week since I started working with her and she's been very helpful in terms of this is how research works. This is how publishing works. [00:17:08]
THERAPIST: Like basic information about academic stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah, like generally stuff about the academic world she's been a great mentor. She doesn't know this field.
THERAPIST: Right. I would think that's kind of important.
(Laughter)
CLIENT: A little bit.
THERAPIST: Go out on a limb here, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(Pause)
CLIENT: And it doesn't help that I ran out of my antidepressant prescription last week, and I haven't found a new prescribing psycho pharmacologist.
THERPIST: (inaudible at 00:17:55).
CLIENT: So —
THERAPIST: You should get on that.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes I should.
THERAPIST: What were you taking? [00:17:59]
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:18:01).
THERAPIST: And what happened to your old prescribe — oh, is your (inaudible at 00:18:08).
CLIENT: Yeah. My last therapist was also MD. I called her and asked her if she could write me a new prescription, and she said she'd need to see me for an office visit just to — I don't know, since I got professional (inaudible at 00:18:21).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:18:23).
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:18:24) yeah.
THERAPIST: Would you see her for that to —
CLIENT: I don't know. I haven't called her back because, I don't know, I didn't exactly leave on good terms more —
THERAPIST: How did you leave? [00:18:35]
CLIENT: I just wrote her a letter saying I felt like I had hit a plateau in progress and didn't want to see her anymore. So I don't know, I guess the bad feelings were entirely on my part. I really — I don't know, I felt very negatively towards her by the time I stopped seeing her. So while I think I ended it in a reasonably professional way, I just —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:07) you're saying you're, like, pretty pissed off at her?
CLIENT: Yeah.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Can you, in the interim, see somebody that (inaudible at 00:19:36) a counseling center? Like, do they have prescribers there?
CLIENT: It didn't even occur to me. I bet they do. Yeah. That would probably be the easiest thing to do. [00:19:47]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:49) you got to find a prescriber for the longer term, but, you know, I was just thinking to get by.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You ran out last week?
CLIENT: Yeah. Not so much for now (ph) I have another week left, but left the bottle at my in-laws' place over the weekend.
(Pause)
CLIENT: I know it was not the best —
THERAPIST: What I was going to say was not that at all. (Laughter) (inaudible at 00:20:36). Yeah, I would call and if they can't give you an appointment soon, like today or Thursday, like, I don't know, the next few days.
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: Like, I would walk in there for urgent appointment with a prescriber. I know at Cambridge you can do that. I don't know how it works there, but you could probably just walk in.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. [00:20:55]
THERAPIST: And say, like, you know, you're having a hard time. You're in a big crunch with your work. This is absolutely not helping and —
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you can't wait a week to get your prescription refilled.
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: You probably wouldn't be able to get in to see anybody, like, outside university (inaudible at 00:21:11) anyway.
CLIENT: Right.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Can you tell how much that it's affecting you or —
(Pause)
CLIENT: I feel like I'm more prone to hysterics and crying jags. But everything else is not really much of a change.
THERAPIST: I see. Does that mean it wasn't helping very much? [00:22:12]
CLIENT: (Sigh) Well, it was helping when I was on a higher dose, but then Chrissy cut me down to two/thirds the dose I was on because of a new warning from the manufacturer about heart side effects.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which I thought, at the time and still think was overly paranoid of her since I am young and healthy and do not have any kind of heart problems. I have phenomenally low blood pressure, low cholesterol, there's absolutely never even for me to be worried about a drug that might cause, you know, spikes in blood pressure because —
THERAPIST: Right. Not an issue.
CLIENT: Yeah. And that it helped quite a bit more the higher dose?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: I'm just — I'm trying to think of anything else (inaudible at 00:24:17) prescriber. That can be tough to do actually. Yeah, let me think about it. I mean, I can think of a few ideas. In the short term I guess the most important thing is (inaudible at 00:24:41) getting a refill the prescription and seeing if (inaudible at 00:24:44) back to what it was when it helped more. Yeah, (inaudible at 00:24:58) it can be hard to find a prescriber in this area (inaudible at 00:25:05).
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Most of the people I know like to do therapy with (inaudible at 00:25:13). But I can (inaudible at 00:25:14) people who don't necessarily (inaudible at 00:25:18).
CLIENT: Um-hmm. [00:25:19]
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Are there other things that are making this more difficult now?
CLIENT: No it's mostly the — I have my thesis. I'm frustrated with my advisor. I'm frustrated with myself. The situation with my parents and my sister's graduation isn't helping, but I think that's actually relatively minor.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:25:54) overall?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:25:55]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:25:56).
CLIENT: My sister called me yesterday and said, "by the way, when you come to my graduation, make sure you bring a (inaudible at 00:26:03) so that we could do a collegiate sisters' pic" because my younger sister graduated last year. We're all graduating within a year of each other. We all have hooded sweatshirts that we could — I don't know, my sister is into all this meshy, meshy crap that I find ridiculous. It's just the imperious way she told me, you know, by the way, do this as opposed to, you know — I think is a cute idea, would you mind?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it's such a little thing that irritated the hell out of me.
THERAPIST: Well, I would imagine it touches a little bit on the she is more important than you kind of thing?
CLIENT: Yeah.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Is there anything else that would be helpful to sort of talk about (inaudible at 00:27:26) with the thesis? It sounds like that's really kind of the main source of — like the most stressful thing right now. [00:27:32]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Talk to my advisor about switching to a project. I'd have to stay in this class though and that suck.
THERAPIST: Could you find a tutor? I would think there are —
CLIENT: Probably yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:28:04).
(Pause)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:28:16) over your head you are in there, like, maybe (inaudible at 00:28:19) a week for tutoring and help with stuff. Would that be enough background or do you feel like you're —
CLIENT: Yeah I think that actually would be enough. I mean, it's all the material that I've seen before. I just didn't quite wrap my head around it the first time I saw it (inaudible at 00:28:40). We're doing a lot of stuff with, you know, solving PDs and I took (inaudible at 00:28:45) where I learned how to solve PDs. I just don't remember any of it, but, I mean — [00:28:51]
THERAPIST: It's not that far off.
CLIENT: Right. I mean, how hard could it be, something that freshmen take? And so, I suppose a Harvard freshmen not freshmen anywhere, but still —
THERAPIST: Right.
(Laugher)
CLIENT: I was also an Harvard freshmen once upon a time.
(Laughter)
(Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I (inaudible at 00:29:20).
(Pause)
CLIENT: I just want to be done.
THERAPIST: Yeah, like you're pretty ready (inaudible at 00:29:40) fuck out of there. [00:29:40]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, in both of those situations the class and the thesis suck. I mean, I don't know. You're not saying I'm working on a project that I like, but I'm just kind of sick of it because I've been working on it all year, and I, like, haven't finished. But I sort of basically believe in it or, you know, I'm taking some classes that are challenging, but, you know, I can do them (inaudible at 00:30:15) taking classes. I mean, you're saying I'm in class, I'm over my head because I really don't have all the background that I need.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(Laughter)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:30:21) a project that I think is dumb and (inaudible at 00:30:25) roadblocks in it for an advisor who can't help me. [00:30:29]
CLIENT: There's another option in terms of getting the credits I need. While I was working for Celluon, they paid for me to take classes pre NYU is online.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Thing and I did really poorly. My overall NYU GPA was a one point six. So there was a whole year where I was telecommuting to Celluon and taking two classes a semester on my own dime, not on Celluon's because at that point I was a contractor not a full-time employee. And I just — whole semester I didn't turn in final projects for any of my classes because I was depressed. And so I'm really embarrassed over the fact that the overall GPA was a one point six. My first semester I actually got A's in both classes I took, so I could have petitioned to have those classes transferred. I'm just irrationally anxious about what my department head would say when he sees the NYU transfer, and sees that, you know, my final year I got literally all Fs.
THERAPIST: I guess he'd have to see the whole thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. There's no way to get a partial transfer.
(Pause)
CLIENT: And part of me knows that it shouldn't matter because the class I'm petitioning for the transfer credit for was an A. [00:32:08]
THERAPIST: Right. And the F had probably much more to do with depression than anything else.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But of course, you wouldn't know.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But you're embarrassed about it. Does the department have any actual power over your life?
CLIENT: Well, he gets to decide whether I get to graduate or not. And he also has to sign my masters' thesis. [00:32:33]
THERAPIST: Okay. I can't imagine though that some old F's would (inaudible at 00:32:44). I mean, like, I thought maybe he was writing a letter that could —
CLIENT: Right. But he wouldn't be writing me a letter, he hardly knows me.
THERAPIST: Too bad there's not a good answer.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know, maybe I should, like, go to his office hours and explain the situation to him and ask him if it matters that —
THERAPIST: Yeah, might be a good idea. [00:33:25]
CLIENT: I don't know, just —
THERAPIST: I mean, that would —
CLIENT: I mean, if I could get that transfer credit I could drop the class that I'm taking this semester and drop the thesis credits, and just do the project and submit it and be done. And a project is much less terrifying to me than a thesis, and it's (inaudible at 00:33:50) masters to grade, so I don't — I'm not really gunning for a research job, so I don't think I need the thesis.
THERAPIST: Right. And does that mean you would be done with your work (inaudible at 00:34:05) in the middle of April?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: My thought was that, you know, you could start doing some stuff for your advisor sooner if you did it that way, I would guess. [00:34:17]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which she might automatically be happy about, and it would free up more of your time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: It does sound like that would make things a lot easier anyway.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. [00:34:51]
(Pause)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:35:02) to me, like, have a conversation with him and see.
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:35:09).
CLIENT: Yes, yeah.
(Pause)
CLIENT: Or I could just suck it up and try and write the thesis.
THERAPIST: You could. [00:35:39]
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Will (inaudible at 00:35:53) that be? I mean, you may not have alternatives.
CLIENT: I mean, the advantage would be no one would have to see my transcript from NYU. That would be the big advantage.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: Would you feel really bad, I mean, if you went to (inaudible at 00:36:18) and said, look, here's what I want to do, I want to talk to you about what is feasible and whether — and also, like, explain that that was a hard time in my life, bla, bla, bla. [00:36:28]
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: And he's, like (inaudible at 00:36:31) I understand (inaudible at 00:36:32) like, would you still feel really shitty about it?
CLIENT: Yeah. When I think at this point no matter what I do I'm going to feel shitty about it.
(Laughter)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:36:48) enjoy working on the thesis very much if it comes to that.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Or feel good about the time you're putting in or that sort of thing. [00:36:56]
CLIENT: Um-hmm. I don't know, I feel like there are no good options as a result of bad decisions I made months or even years ago. And just —
THERAPIST: Working such as depression (inaudible at 00:37:14) you had no control.
CLIENT: I could have sought treatment earlier than I did. That's a whole n'other bag of worms my parents used to threaten me with as teenager when I like — did anything, they get, like, they'd say, you know, "what's wrong with you? There's something wrong with your head. Clearly you're crazy and if you don't start behaving the way we want you to, we'll send you to a psychotherapist." And then — [00:37:42]
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: "And then there will be a black mark on your record and no one will ever hire you."
THERAPIST: Oh God.
(Laughter)
CLIENT: Because apparently, just like being a doctor my dad has no concept of, you know, medical records not being —
THERAPIST: That's craziness.
CLIENT: Available to employers, so, you know — [00:37:57]
THERAPIST: Craziness, that's very fucked up.
CLIENT: Throughout undergrad all my friends said, "you have serious problems. You need to see a psychiatrist because you have serious problems." And I refused because I have this completely wrong notion that psychiatric problems were not real and were just a sign of moral failing and character flaws, and I should just be better. And I don't know, I still have to fight with that part of me a lot. But, you know, it's not a sign of, you know, that, you know, I'm a complete moral failure and, you know, flawed as a human being because I need to see a psychiatrist, psychologist, whatever.
THERAPIST: Well —
CLIENT: It's ironic because of my active life I spend a lot of time talking about the stigmatization of mental illness and how, you know, more adequate care and access to resources, especially for college students, and help everyone, but I can't seem to believe it in my own head, so — [00:39:12]
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 00:39:14) Harvard has generally been pretty good about that I think, hasn't it? I mean, fairly accessible.
CLIENT: More or less.
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah.
CLIENT: When I was a student mental health was dramatically over extended and overworked and under funded.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And, you know, they put one friend of mine who had bipolar disorder on SSRI's and she had a terrible manic outbreak and — [00:39:44]
THERAPIST: Oh God, that's awful.
CLIENT: And almost killed herself. There was another student who was having psychotic breaks and, you know, (inaudible at 00:39:54) hospitalized and was diagnosed as schizophrenic, and is stable now that she's on anti-schizophrenics, but mental health completely —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:40:02).
CLIENT: Yeah, they didn't catch it. They didn't diagnose it. It was —
THERAPIST: Oh, that's awful.
CLIENT: Which, you know, it's not for lack of trying on the part of the individual petitioners, but the fact that the practice was just completely overwhelmed. And there's very little support from the administration, and a great deal of pressure from advisors and professors to, you know, suck it up because back in my day, bla, bla, bla. [00:40:30]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not very helpful I'm sure.
CLIENT: I hear that things are better now than they were when I was a student, but —
THERAPIST: Yeah, when they weren't so good.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:40:39]
THERAPIST: Well, we'll stop for now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:40:47).
CLIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
