Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (midsentence when transcript starts) (talking very rapidly) ...Passover and like when (unclear name) said that he really didn't want to kosher it in the middle of the holiday because like I guess you're not allowed to do that or something which meant that I couldn't make matzah pizza in the microwave which would have taken like 10 sec...or a minute at most and I had to make it in the oven and I didn't leave myself enough time and then it was already like 1:10 and I'd already missed (sob) both (sob) busses, like the 68 and the 69 and I (sigh)...I mean could have borrowed Sydney's car maybe but the problem is that then I would have had to find a place to park here and I don't know how to parallel park, or I know how to parallel park but I can't actually do it competently without like hitting somebody (sigh) and Sydney said that I could like probably find a cab, so I walked down there...and there weren't any cabs. And I thought, you know, what normally would be a 15-minute walk would have made me 5 minutes late ended up being like a 25-minute walk because...I'm sick.
THERAPIST: Take a deep breath. It's okay. So you're late. It's alright. [00:01:03]
CLIENT: So I'm late, so I miss half of the therapy sessions and I only get like a 20-minute therapy session instead of the 50-minute therapy session that I actually need.
THERAPIST: That's true.
CLIENT: (Sniffles) I'm really pissed off at Aaron for being inconsiderate about the microwave. I mean, okay, I guess it's his right to decide in a way that we can't like kosher it in the middle of the holiday, but he...it was his job to kosher that kitchen. He should have kosher'd the microwave - and he didn't, and now I'm screwed. Like he didn't realize the implications of it, but it meant that like (pause) I couldn't eat. Also these things that I like had slipped by. Like ya know we put all our food on the list and he did like the Passover shopping and I put like matzah meal on the list for multiple meals because I needed it for multiple meals. He bought one container of matzah meal, which we used by the end of the first Seder, which meant for a second Seder we had no matzah meal in the house (sighs) because he was an idiot and only bought one container of matzah meal for the entirety of Passover. He bought two containers of matzah cake meal for some reason even though like that's only used in desserts. and I guess it was his mistake but I'm really pissed because I trusted that there was going to be enough and then there wasn't, and so Sydney ended up actually like crushing matzahs into matzah meal, which is a very, very, very expensive way to make matzah meal, so the matzah meal costs like less than three dollars and I think a matzah costs like somewhere five and ten dollars (sigh). And everything is going wrong and I don't have any coping mechanisms left and I try...I called to get a thera...a psychiatrist appointment and the first appointment that's available that I did sign up for is on May 9th which is a ____[00:02:58] day and I can't last like this for a month because I keep on wanting to hurt myself and I keep on wanting to like...I keep on not being able to deal with like the smallest things that are going wrong, and they turn into big things even though they probably aren't that big and (pause, crying, sniff) I don't know what to do. [00:03:21]
THERAPIST: Start with deep breaths because that's the most basic thing you can do to help yourself calm down. It always works a little bit just to slow down the process.
CLIENT: (sniffles, crying) But it doesn't change the, like, basic fact that like this medicine I'm taking is probably not working any more and there aren't any other antidepressants out there that aren't SSRIs, and I have no other options (pause, sniffles). [00:04:06]
THERAPIST: We don't know that that's necessarily true.
CLIENT: We do know that there aren't any other SSRIs, like all the other antidepressants are SSRIs or work with serotonin or something, right? Wellbutrin is the only one that doesn't.
THERAPIST: There are new medications being developed all the time and a lot of what you're dealing with is anxiety, not depression, and there are lots of antianxiety meds out there.
CLIENT: Yeah, but there're all addictive if I take them and I've been taking them for days. I've taken like 3 or 4 Xanax's. That's not okay. I can't keep on doing that every day.
THERAPIST: Not every day. Are you doing that every day?
CLIENT: Not every day but like...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...many, most days like I'm definitely averaging out more than one a day (sniffles, sighs).
THERAPIST: It's okay to have one a day and it's okay to have a two a day. They're very short-acting meds.
CLIENT: Is it okay to have four a day, though?
THERAPIST: It's not okay to have four a day every day for weeks and weeks on end. Is it okay to do that in emergencies? Yes. But there are other options out there too for antianxiety that are less addictive and that create less of a tolerance. [00:05:17]
CLIENT: It's that those are usually the antidepressants that are also antianxiety meds which are SSRIs which I can't take. Like what other option is there? Like I feel like all the antianxiety pills that aren't part of SSRIs are like in that class of controlled...
THERAPIST: A lot of them have been...
CLIENT: ...substances that are eventually addictive.
THERAPIST: Right. A lot of them are benzodiazepines, which is what you're thinking of, which tend to create...tend to...people tend to build up a tolerance to them and there are some withdrawal effects which is what makes them addictive, but lots of people use them long-term and don't have...don't have a problem and you've been using them for a long time and haven't had a problem with that. There've been lots of periods of time where you've gone, ya know, for weeks on end without feeling you need to use one and that's...that's very different than someone who's built up a tolerance and you're going through a very difficult period right now and you've been using your meds appropriately and you haven't had a problem. So let's not jump to worrying about addiction...and
CLIENT: Well, but that doesn't...no, but the point where I want to like hurt myself is that's not anxiety, that's depression I think. (pause)
THERAPIST: We don't have to separate them so much 'cuz there's lot of overlap.
CLIENT: Because then I take the antianxiety pills and they don't do...
THERAPIST: Mm hmm...and it doesn't stop that feeling.
CLIENT: ...anything. So that's depression or something like depression. [00:07:02]
THERAPIST: Certainly feeling trapped.
CLIENT: (crying) I can't go like this for another month. I don't have the ability to do that (shuddering cry). It was the most...the soonest appointment I could get and like, ya know, part of me thinks maybe I was stupid for not making an appointment like earlier, except that I didn't know I was going to feel like this, ya know, if I hadn't made this, like, ya know, if I had like done this like...
THERAPIST: Do you have a PCP in addition to a psychiatrist or do you not have a PCP on record?
CLIENT: I do have a PCP but...
THERAPIST: Can you get an urgent care appointment with your PCP? If this feels like an emergency then you can use urgent care, and while it's important to follow up with your psychiatrist for the best follow-up for your psychiatric meds, your PCP can also prescribe and think about options with you if it's an...
CLIENT: I don't know that he can because my PCP is also hard to get appointments with. I usually end up getting appointments like with one of the other doctors in the system when I like...
THERAPIST: But you can see someone?
CLIENT: ...can't see...
THERAPIST: But you can see someone?
CLIENT: Probably, I don't know if they'd give me...I mean I never even ended up calling for being sick because I was like oh, I don't feel that sick today, except apparently I still am sick. So like if I call, like they might be able to get me an appointment tomorrow or something but I don't know it, like I don't know how to, ya know, like ask, ya know, like it...it's...I don't know that I could get an urgent care appointment for something psychiatric when it's not actually an emergency...
THERAPIST: If you feel like you are having trouble not acting on thoughts to harm yourself that's...
CLIENT: I'm not actually having problems...
THERAPIST: ...an emergency.
CLIENT: ...of not acting on it, I just really want to act on it. I just feel uncomfortable having these thoughts. I haven't tried to act on it or anything, so it's not an emergency. It's just like really uncomfortable situation. Like I...and I don't even know how to explain, because I'll be like, oh well, ya know, it'll be like they'll tell me that I should meet with a psychiatrist or something, like I don't even know like how I make, like what to even ask them for, like (sniffles) and at this point of the day like they're not going to have anything left for today I don't...[00:09:13]
THERAPIST: Not for today but there's a big difference between this afternoon and waiting a month, and if you feel like you can't wait a month and that's the absolute soonest you can get in to see your psychiatrist, then you need to use the urgent care system. That's what urgent care is for...
CLIENT: But...
THERAPIST: There's a difference between emergency room and urgent care. Emergency rooms are for "I need to be seen right now," so this is one...this is a step removed from that because you don't need to be seen right now, but you do feel like you need to be seen before the regular care is available.
CLIENT: But the problem is also like, ya know, I'm not asking for like...like I am asking for...like this is like medicine adjustment like things that like require a...ya know, like I don't know that primary care person would know enough about the psychiatric drugs that like they could mess like with the fine-tuning of it as opposed to like, ya know, okay this person is depressed. We need to get on something. Here, let's try Prozac. Like that's usually what a primary care physician does. [00:10:14]
THERAPIST: You would talk with the doctor and let them know what your response was. They're not going to make a decision without looking at your chart, ...
CLIENT: I mean I'm not going to...
THERAPIST: ...without consulting with your doctor.
CLIENT: ...they're not going to make a decision...it's just that they're not gonna have any sort of like...they won't have the knowledge to like do anything helpful in my situation because I need an actual psychiatrist because...
THERAPIST: You're creating a situation to make it impossible for yourself to get care. You're saying that you can't get in to see you're psychiatrist...
CLIENT: I can't get the care that will help. It would be like going to a dermatologist or something (sniffles).
THERAPIST: No, it would not, Georgia. You're not scheduling with dermatology. You'd be scheduling with a primary care MD who has done a psychiatric rotation and is licensed to prescribe psychotropic medication.
CLIENT: Well, a dermatologist also has done a psychiatric rotation 'cuz everybody has to do all the rotations right? [00:11:08]
THERAPIST: A very brief period of time, but that's not the same training as a primary care physician, and if you want to get urgent care, if you feel like you are not being seen soon enough by your psychiatrist, then you need to use the urgent care system. You can't talk yourself out of any kind of care if you want to get care.
CLIENT: Like...
THERAPIST: The system is imperfect but you have to use the system that's there.
CLIENT: Or I could check myself into a mental hospital for a week.
THERAPIST: Does that seem like an easier, more reasonable option?
CLIENT: It doesn't seem like easier but it might be more like appropriate to what I'm actually...
THERAPIST: That's a much higher level of care than using the urgent care system that is in place.
CLIENT: ...though I would then be actually talking to psychiatrists...(pause)
THERAPIST: If you feel that you are...that's it's not...if you feel like it's not reasonable to use the urgent care system, then you're certainly not reasonable to use an inpatient facility (pause). If that's the level of care you feel like you need, I would not stop you from doing that, but it doesn't seem like it's the case. [00:12:20]
CLIENT: Well, if I keep on dragging down like over and over and over again it seems only fitting that I should check myself into a mental hospital like...I feel that I'm kind of screwed because I don't...I'll like...if I do it this week I'll starve to death because they're not gonna to have any provisions for Passover so...I would have to wait another week anyways.
THERAPIST: If you are at the level where you feel like you need that level of care then some things need to go by the wayside. If you are at a place where you are still able to keep kosher for Passover then you are not at a place where you need to be in an inpatient unit. We're talking about levels of need here. Inpatient units are for when the bare minimum of keeping yourself safe is the priority. That comes way below being able to make conscious decisions about your...about following religious traditions, and clearly you're at a place where those religious traditions are still really important, which makes me think you're functioning way better than needing to check yourself into an inpatient unit [00:13:38]
CLIENT: Maybe. I guess I just thought that like, ya know, there's sort of also a way of like resetting when you've like been in like way too, ya know when it's all the stresses of everything is getting to you and like it's a way of removing yourself from that stress. It's not just keeping you from killing yourself but it's also to like...give you intensive treatment all the time to like return you to sanity? [00:14:02]
THERAPIST: You are sane. You have not lost your sanity. I know you don't feel very good. I know you feel really bad, but you are still sane. You know where you are. You know exactly what's going on. You're hearing your own voice, not somebody else's.
CLIENT: (crying) I just really think...I don't know... like, then I mean I guess there's like the clinic at the Hospital that I could like go to that and then it wouldn't be like...like in their psychiatric wing that is an outpatient.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you have access to that?
CLIENT: I think like all I have to do is walk out there...
THERAPIST: Okay, so that might be a much...
CLIENT: And it's like...
THERAPIST: ...that might be much more appropriate way for you...
CLIENT: ...a long walk from my house, but I've never been through that. I mean I've...I've been there like as a stopgap from when I like, ya know, was running out of meds and needed more meds but didn't have a psychiatrist...a new psychiatrist when I had to switch systems, so like I...I don't know if like I could just pay for...well, hey it was like three years ago so I don't really remember if I like had to like call them up ahead of time or just go there. I think I might have just went there but, like, I'm not sure if I can just go there and...get...help. (pause)
THERAPIST: That might be a reasonable option. I think calling, seeing if you have access to their walk-in clinic...and knowing that you have that as a backup. Or finding out if you have that as a backup between now and the time you scheduled your appointment for. [00:16:03]
CLIENT: I guess then at least it would be totally just like ____[00:16:06] because then I just don't think...
THERAPIST: No it wouldn't.
CLIENT: ...that a PCP would be qualified to like...
THERAPIST: Generally I do recommend that people use a psychiatrist 'cuz I think the follow-up - and the experience of having the specialty is useful - but PCPs do prescribe actually the majority of psychotropic medications in this country and a good PCP...or, ya know, a good MD who you meet with at urgent care that might not be your regular PCP, will consult with your psychiatrist and that's better than just waiting a month if you feel like you can't wait a month. It doesn't mean that you necessarily stick with that recommendation...[ 00:16:52]
CLIENT: It's not like they'd have a chance to consult with my psychiatrist in a timely fashion and in terms of, yeah 'cuz...
THERAPIST: The absolute...
CLIENT: ...mine only works on Wednesdays and that's why...
THERAPIST: But anybody you see would make...do that consultation.
CLIENT: But while, ya know, like if it's like a Tuesday that I'm seeing my, um...
THERAPIST: And your psychiatrist only works one day a week?...
CLIENT: At least in the Health Alliance. I had forgotten about that and that was why...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...I couldn't get in to him until...then.
THERAPIST: But has an office elsewhere maybe?
CLIENT: (blows nose) I don't even know. Like I really, really don't know. It was like a transfer to a transfer so...I've only met with him twice. Like I've...like I probably need to find a new psychiatrist who's like a private practice or, ya know, works more than one day a week, then I could, ya know...because originally it was okay that, ya know, I could go a couple months without an appointment.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...like I still have...like I think the drug that would run out the soonest would probably be the Wellbutrin. I still have either five or six months' worth left of Wellbutrin.
THERAPIST: Mmm. [00:17:58]
CLIENT: Like it would have been fine...
THERAPIST: Right, if the situation...
CLIENT: ...if I were stable.
THERAPIST: ...were more stable.
CLIENT: But the problem is not...not stable any more (sigh) which means I need to like go and find a new psychiatrist or something and I'm just...it takes effort. It's just like, 'cuz the appointment that I did get scheduled would just be a follow-up appointment so I don't even know if it'd be like a 20-, 30-minute appointment. I'm not sure that's enough to like fix my problems, but he only works one day a week, like I don't know what to do, and I know you had given me a list some time ago of possible options but I definitely don't still have that list any more and...
THERAPIST: Well, I can recreate a list for you, but I think right now we need to deal with the immediate which is finding a way for you to get sooner care, and it might...finding a new psychiatrist right now when you're in a time of flux might not be the best time for that. Having somebody on record and keeping that appointment there and you thinking about your urgent care options...
CLIENT: I mean it's not like I'm gonna cancel that appointment until I have another appointment that's sooner or better. [00:19:26]
THERAPIST: I'll be happy to look up some providers for you and e-mail you that list by the end of the day so that you have recreation of that. (pause) Blue Cross-Blue Shield is a pretty common insurance.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or at least...well...as long as I'm on it which might only be...
THERAPIST: Which you are for right now, right?
CLIENT: Just have to...hate having to keep on finding new doctors and like (crying)...I...when I switched over to the Health Alliance System I was originally seeing Dr. [Anonymous] and like she was fairly easy to get appointments with, ya know...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...and I didn't have to wait a really long time, and then she moved and I keep on like feel like every like year or two like I have to find a new psychiatrist...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...which is really annoying (sniffles).
THERAPIST: Very stressful to have to...
CLIENT: And like the fact that like they like, ya know...like I feel that there aren't enough psychiatrists...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...out there if like...ya know like in this case when I called for an appointment I wasn't like hey, it's an emergency, I need something right now, but like, ya know, that they give me an appointment in May (sniffles).
THERAPIST: You're absolutely feeling...feeling something that's very true about the system. There is a shortage of psychiatrists out there which makes access to care really difficult. This is not something that's happening to you. This is something that's happening in the larger community. [00:21:00]
CLIENT: Like I remember when I first was getting on meds and like even when I was at ____[00:21:04] it was like ya know okay, well you have to wait two months and I'm like, I have depression now. You can't make me wait two months. I can't wait two months. This is an emergency.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: And I mean I think, like they eventually like got me something sooner but it was just like such a hard (sniffles) thing to...go through...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...and like (pause) you'd think that they would encourage more people to go into psychiatry and have more psychiatry residencies and stuff open so like fix that problem, but I don't...I mean maybe for all I know they are working on that but I don't know that they are. [00:21:52]
THERAPIST: It's just not the chosen specialty for most MDs.
CLIENT: Which is stupid because like, ya know, (sniffles) I guess if it's not what they like, then it's not what they like and they can like do something else, but like (sniffles) ya know there's some psychiatrists who charge like $300 an hour. If you did that you would really have to work like...if you worked an hour a day five days a week that would be fifteen hundred dollars a week. Like...you wouldn't have to work at all...like barely. I mean, though, most psychiatrists probably don't charge $300 an hour...yeah...it's just kinda ridiculous that...
THERAPIST: I'm sorry you're having such trouble getting...getting access to the care that you need (pause).
CLIENT: And I just don't have the energy to make a zillion phone calls.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that makes a hard situation even harder.
CLIENT: I'm so sick...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...that like everything is a struggle for me right now and like I'm thinking I can't do anything right and I keep on messing up everything and like (crying)...
THERAPIST: But that's not...
CLIENT: ...well, for example I was trying to dye wool before Passover started and like someone...
THERAPIST: Hence the blue fingers, huh? (chuckles)
CLIENT: Uh, this is a ____[00:23:28] instead of the dyed wool. This is the...I dyed wool this morning when I shouldn't have even tried...left sooner but, um (sigh) then like I was making specific things and then there was one that was like supposed to be orange and yellow and like I had this other one that was like rainbow colored and with a bunch of turquoise and the one that was rainbow colored with a bunch of turquoise opened up and so the orange and yellow one has green on it now and so I have to redo it...or rather make new ones.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...but like this was right before ____[00:23:58] and I had no way of fixing it right before ____[00:24:01] because it was like about to be that and like, ya know, then I had to then wait two days and...because it didn't have the time and that is something...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...I usually don't mess up but all of them got messed up.
THERAPIST: You're feeling a little distracted and having trouble concentrating?
CLIENT: That wasn't a concentrating...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...that was it messed up in the dye pot issue.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: I dyed it correctly. It just...I must not have wrapped the other one well enough to cable good and this was the only one like the set of those ones that got messed up that I have to make new ones and I don't know what I'm going to do with the old ones. It's not like they're super duper ugly, but like someone specifically ordered this...
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: ...and now I have do it again. Like I didn't waste that much yarn but still...like it was frustrating...
THERAPIST: Uh hmm. It's frustrating 'cuz it didn't come out the way that you were planning.
CLIENT: And I was also like going crazy for days. I finally last night, like I had knitted a sock and then I had started on the second sock. And I knit the first sock sometime over the summer and like I was working on the second sock and I like...at some point I had put the first sock elsewhere and like then I...because I didn't want it taking up space in my bag anymore, I finished the second sock like when I was in Israel and then I couldn't find the first sock. I finally found it last night after like going crazy for like a week trying to find it. I was panicking so much, like oh God I'm gonna have to make a third sock and I spent all this efforts and like yeah actually...so I found it last night and now I'm finally...
THERAPIST: Ahh, so you are match socked. [00:25:44]
CLIENT: ...so now I actually have two socks but like, I tore up my house. The fact that I still like, ya know, I've moved most of the things out of the room. Like my old roommates still have a bookcase in there and I can't get...there's a bookcase in Melissa's room that like I thought I was going to want and now I realize I don't and I need to move that bookcase out and move the other bookcase in but I'm not strong enough to do that and Sydney is sick right now too. He's sicker than I am and like I mean...and the fact that it took me until today because I like I didn't last...like I was going to do it on Thursday or Friday, or Wednesday was, ya know I wrote this cover letter and it took me until today to finally send it out and, ya know...I still don't have a job...and...ya know, like I thought I'd be less stressed once I like at least finished my part koshering, for Passover and like I did finish the koshering for Passover but I still feel just as shitty as I did before. Like nothing has changed, ya know, and I'm still feeling horrible. (pause) [00:26:59]
THERAPIST: So what do you think you're really feeling horrible about? It wasn't the koshering, it's not the sock. What is it that's really bothering you?
CLIENT: I have no idea. Maybe being dependent on my parents still...I don't know (weeping).
THERAPIST: It's a big thing.
CLIENT: But like I have no way to fix it like...
THERAPIST: You don't have an immediate way of fixing that...but someday you will get a job and you will have your independence...
CLIENT: Which if that's like in a year, then I have a year of feeling like this.
THERAPIST: We don't know how much longer it's gonna take. You can't jump ahead a year. You have to focus what's on...if, if that's the thing that's make you most uncomfortable, then I think you're probably pretty on target. Ya know, the financial aspect of having to be dependent on your parents is something that's bothered you for a long time. Continue to focus only on what's in your control and you don't know which of the cover letters and which of the interviews will finally work. You don't know if that's gonna be something that happens relatively quickly from now...relatively soon from now or if that's gonna be something that's in another couple of months or longer. You just don't know. [00:28:20]
CLIENT: I just...I mean at least I still send out this cover letter...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...but it's like these two positions I like, I applied for the senior one. The junior one had almost the same requirements except like less experience, so I like I didn't want to write two cover letters so I applied for the senior one and said I was also willing to be considered for the junior one 'cuz...the cover letters would have went to the exact...
THERAPIST: Right. Uh huh.
CLIENT: ...same person so it would have been like here, read this thing twice where I had just changed the name of the position.
THERAPIST: That sounds like you did a good job with that.
CLIENT: It's still like ya know I...I saw it...like first it was posted like on....I think it was posted on craigslist or something like that and like...or the other website or something and then it was like posted on the EDSCO job blog and then it was also an e-mail on one of the EBSCO listers and like...it changed. Well, and then like, like the last one, like in the e-mail like had in parenthesis three-month position which it never had in the previous two like postings on it and now I'm like okay is it a three-month position? And also like the assistant position is 15 hours a week, $18 an hour, part time, no benefits. Fine.
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: The senior position is 35 hours a week, $21 an hour, also no benefits. And I did the calculations and so if you were to like work that many hours and get that much money, not eligible for in-state health care, so I'm like...
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: ...ya know, it's not enough time that you could work another job...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...that gives you health care. How the hell do they like...
THERAPIST: How can they have no benefits?
CLIENT: ...how can they have no benefits? Which I mean I guess is a question I would ask if I got the interview, which I might not. At least I still like sent it in, but it was like 35 hours a week is a full-time job!
THERAPIST: Yeah, maybe, maybe that's incorrect what they wrote or...
CLIENT: Maybe. It like, it keeps on changing. Considering...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...that it's like a 3-month position and then...
THERAPIST: Maybe it's because it's a temporary position.
CLIENT: Maybe, yeah. And then like that temporary position, like I think when those two e-mails for the positions went out like I think it was only the senior one that they said three-month position, like in the other one they didn't. Ya know it's just so...inconsistent, but like...
THERAPIST: Right. But you send in your stuff anyway and you ask questions if you get an interview.
CLIENT: At least because the letter went to like an actual person with an actual name even though it was the Yale Business...oh, also it was the Yale Business School!
THERAPIST: Mmm.
CLIENT: They can totally afford to give people benefits. Like but it's like Yale Business School and it was actually the name of a person who works in the special collections department so you're actually, so I was actually sending this cover letter to an archivist...
THERAPIST: Well, I'm glad you sent it out.
CLIENT: ...who looked at it.
THERAPIST: I'm glad even though, ya know, there's the inconsistency with the posting and there's some questions about it...
THERAPIST: Like so...
CLIENT: ...and getting your stuff out there and waiting until, ya know, the next steps. [00:31:13]
THERAPIST: And it's probably a moot point because I'm probably not going to get the interview anyway, so someone else gets to ask why there are not...ya know is this a three-month position? Are there in fact no benefits? How are you supposed to get health insurance then if you're...if it puts you above the bracket? Etcetera, etcetera. But like, I feel like all these jobs ya know, and I applied for this other one at Brown and I haven't heard back from them but maybe it will be a while. Like just...
THERAPIST: Sometimes academia moves slowly.
CLIENT: It seems so futile. Like I don't...like only had like with the ancestry job, the dot com job that I didn't take, I mean I applied for that thing in December and it wasn't till like the end of March that I like got that interview.
THERAPIST: It's very hard to wait.
CLIENT: So, like, you never know how fast these things move, so I don't, I don't know.
THERAPIST: You gotta hold out hope till you hear back that you didn't get it. Ya gotta hold out hope.
CLIENT: I mean I'm just sort of assuming I don't get it, so that way well like you know have more motivation to write more...cover...letters because...yeah. I really...I think I'd even...I'd rather have like the junior position and not the senior one but it looks better to apply for the senior one. [00:32:38]
THERAPIST: Well, there's nothing you can do about it now. You sent out your stuff...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...You follow up with a phone call, but there's nothing to worry about until you hear back. You can't make decisions, can't ask questions until they call you back.
CLIENT: If they call me back.
THERAPIST: If they call you back.
CLIENT: Which they'll probably...I'll probably get an e-mail that's like oh we chose someone else.
THERAPIST: Georgia—you're not helping yourself by thinking that.
CLIENT: Well, it's...
THERAPIST: Jumping ahead and imagining a negative outcome only makes you feel badly.
CLIENT: I was actually...I am qualified for both of these positions.
THERAPIST: So that's the thought that you hold in your head. You're qualified, you have a shot and let your thoughts stop there so that you don't talk yourself into feeling pessimistic. Let yourself hold some hope. We do need to stop for today. You know it's short but do you want to try to schedule for another time this week?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Maybe while you wait to get in with a psychiatrist or with an MD we can do some extra support here. Um...we can meet Friday. I have some openings in the morning. I had an 11 o'clock or a 12 o'clock.
CLIENT: Um...let me think about that for a second. I'll probably be giving up that ____[00:34:08] shift because they'll be...
THERAPIST: I also can meet at 5. I don't know if that's too late.
CLIENT: For all these days, like Friday is like a holiday. Like for the second half of Passover. It's Thursday night, Friday, Saturday that's the holiday, so like, um, I mean obviously I have figured out that I can walk here even when sick but, um, um, and so any of those times it's like no matter what they're equally still all on the holiday but maybe I should do that anyway despite the fact that...
THERAPIST: I'm sorry I don't have any time to offer you on...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...on Wednesday.
CLIENT: So...I don't know. It's probably better for me to, not actually breaking the holiday so...
THERAPIST: What would you prefer?
CLIENT: So you said there was like an 11, a 12 and a 5...
THERAPIST: 11, 12 or 5.
CLIENT: Um, I'll take the 12. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you want to plan to do that the following week as well and then just kind of keep some extra support in place since it has been...
CLIENT: Um, sure.
THERAPIST: Okay, so I can do a 12 o'clock on the 20th as well.
CLIENT: Yeah, as far as I...oh, wait. Actually no, let me look up one thing because I know I have two concerts on the...look up...I...I...20th is the, um, prospective students weekend, so I've been e-mailed about these concerts and I'm not sure what...I think they're later though. Um, I guess I could do that, um...okay, um, oh, yeah, okay it's not till 6 p.m. so yeah...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...so I could do...
THERAPIST: Alright. So let's put those in place.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And try to at least give you some extra support here where you do have easy access.
CLIENT: Yeah.
[End of transcript]
END TRANSCRIPT
