TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


This is Session #3.


PATIENT: (inaudible) talk about but (inaudible) a few things happened (inaudible) weekend, and I wanted to talk about it. We went away over the weekend. It was really kind of funny because I just had just an uncomfortable feeling the whole time we were gone. It was - there was so much tension and it was something that we had been kind of looking forward to, and I did - you it wasn't really as great we thought it was going to be. And I found myself just picking apart everything he either said or did. And it really bothered me because I felt that I was being so - really critical about everything he said. 


And I - Saturday was sort of like - it was the day where really everything kind of came to a head. And I just wanted to talk to him so badly about everything that was really bothering me. And I just - I couldn't do it. Unfortunately, there were other people there with him and kind of difficult, too. But I just couldn't bring myself to sit down and, you know, say, "Look, I think this is what's really the difference between us." And I think that this is (inaudible) problems could be solved. I was like - couldn't do it. I couldn't let loose. And that came to me on Saturday and (inaudible). [2:31]


And then, of course, Sunday there was - you know, there were lots of (inaudible) there. And by the time Monday rolled around, I just wasn't really able to talk about it. And it was a lot of things that I feel, you know, have come between us. I really want to say that he has like a drinking problem, but he does things that over (inaudible) I think it's not a good time to do it. And it really bothers me. I have this real big thing about being [around with] (ph) him when he's drinking in excess. 


And I don't think it's a problem, but I don't like the way he is when he's drinking, and I can't communicate with him. And oftentimes, I can see where he's doing things that maybe - you know, I'm [in that confirmation] (ph) to him. And I feel that we would have a better time in the same surroundings if we both kept a level head, and we could enjoy it together. But it seems like - well I handle (inaudible) tension one way and he handles it with liquor. [3:52]


COUNSELOR: So on the one hand, you don't like it and you want to tell him that. On the other hand, that's his way of handling it, and you just (inaudible) to step on that or something. [4:01]


PATIENT: I don't that it's exactly wrong, but I think that he needs it so much because of it. And we were - like we were with completely strange people. You know, that we had never known or met before. And I didn't think it was the kind of place to let go that way. It's like the way other people treat him when he's like that that bothers me. And I take it very personally, you know, because I start thinking that people were like upset with him. And the whole evening was sort of like a flop. 


And this is what I wanted to talk to him about, you know? Because I thought that this is one of the major problems that we've been having the last few months is his drinking, especially when we go out in a group of people. And I used to get so hostile in the house. I just couldn't control myself. And I would - I found myself giving really dirty looks and I was -


COUNSELOR: This was on Saturday?


PATIENT: Yeah, this was the whole - well, by Sunday, you know, I had sort of calmed down about it. And I felt very guilty about it because I felt that maybe it had been all uncalled for.


COUNSELOR: But that day you were pretty angry at him? [5:30]


PATIENT: Um-hm. I'm finding that - this has what's been happening, you know, when we go out is that I do become very harmful to him. And the only time that it ever really happens is when he drinks. If he maintains a level of being sober, then I don't - I'd say we have a much better time and we enjoy each other's company. But I always - you know, sometimes I have this feeling that maybe he's drinking like this to upset (ph) me so that he doesn't have to his turn his attention on me and go off in a different direction.


COUNSELOR: Is that what's irritating about it? [6:19]


PATIENT: I think so. Because we communicate really not at all when he's drinking. And I just think it's the opposite when I get (inaudible) drink. All I want to do it talk and - talk about things that bother me and make me happy or sad. And some of his hostilities come out when he's been drinking. And a lot of times it is directed against me-you know, things I've done or said. And I do become frightened at times because the hostility is his demeanor. (ph) But I don't know. It's really - it bothers me, because I don't want to see him become like (inaudible) or something, because the problems that we are having are getting the better of him. [7:10]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're worried it might be going in that direction.


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: It's not yet that experience, but it might get that way.


PATIENT: Well I think we both have the feeling that we're just really slowly drifting more and more apart, and it's coming out in so many ways. I mean, there was a time, you know, when we never would go to bed like one (inaudible) the other one did. Or - I don't know-just finding so many different ways so that we could really not - we're together, but we're not. And I feel that I need some hold of the situation. I can't seem to - I don't have the same feelings about things that I've had before. 


And I don't know if it's because I'm changing or if it's because our whole relationship is changing. And every time we go out, it's just - it's one thing after another, and it's silly. He kind of - you know, really upsetting to him. I keep thinking that every day it's going to be different, but it's not. [8:27]


COUNSELOR: There are some things about the - you said you had the same thing (inaudible) more the (inaudible) about him? And now it's different?


PATIENT: I don't know. It's like he - there was a time when we really depended on each other for a lot of things. And I think that we both have gotten away from this. I mean, he's settled now and he's happy in what he's doing and he like exists in a whole other world. And he doesn't come home and talk about it and I can (inaudible), but it's not like I can share it with him. And I think that maybe this bothers him, you know? That he can't really communicate with me about the things that are most important to him. 


And things that are important to me don't mean anything to him. And we're like on two different tracks. And it's like I talk about maybe buying a house or something, and he doesn't want this sort of thing. And I don't know-he's sort of gotten all wrapped up in not being materialistic and all of that. And I basically am a materialistic person. And so there's a constant battle going there. 


He never says that I can't buy anything, but it's starting to come to that. You know, it's like all of a sudden now, if I mention buying something he just goes into a rage about it-and he never did before. It might have upset him, but he never said anything. It's like all of a sudden the differences are glaring and very real. [10:22]


I think we ignored them for a long time. They've always been there. I think - all the way back they've been there. But it was easier to ignore before. Well, for a while because we didn't have the money and we weren't able to do (inaudible) well we could really (inaudible) our differences. [10:42]


But now that - it seems like everything's come to a screeching halt, you know, with the education and everything. And it's all there. And I think that it's upsetting to both of us, because we're beginning to realize that we should have gotten a lot of these things straightened out a long time ago. All of a sudden, here they are-they sort of piled on top of (inaudible) for so long. And we have - there's so many little tiny things that we talk about that - it automatically goes into an argument. And that's disturbing to me, too, because I hate that constant arguing and bickering, you know? And, "Why didn't you do it?" or "Why haven't you done it?" And it's pressure, and I just don't like it. I don't find it a relaxing way of life. [11:41]


COUNSELOR: It's almost like you're fed up with it or something.


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: [I know that you are.] (ph)


PATIENT: It's interesting. I mean, like I talked about going to school and he just asked me now if I had done anything about a loan. And I said, "No." And he just (inaudible) say about it. And he said, "Well, I don't want to argue now." Because I wanted it all set before I go in. And, "Well, why haven't you said anything about it?" And I said, "Well, I'll talk to you about it later." And it was just going on and on. And I - still I haven't done anything about it because I don't want to. And I'm like afraid to say that I don't want to because, supposedly, the reason I quit working is so that I could go to school. And so it would be sort of like I failed at both ends if I don't work and I don't go to school. What are you going to do? Just sit at home. [12:45]


COUNSELOR: Then you don't feel (inaudible).


PATIENT: I feel that it's just - I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that - I mean, he says the trick is (inaudible) so much. And that like he (inaudible) the opportunity and if you don't (inaudible) then you're like - you're defeating your own purposes. [13:16]


PATIENT: These are like research tapes, huh? 


COUNSELOR: I keep forgetting which track I'm supposed to be recording on.


PATIENT: It's the same thing with his brother and sister. You know, they sort of like didn't make it with school. And I think it was a big disappointment to him. And they keep saying they're going to go back, just like I do. And all three of us are like in the same position. And I think we're all fighting it. And I think this really disappoints him, because the three people who he probably cares the most about aren't achieving what he thinks that they could achieve. And I get upset with myself because I've always been a procrastinator. You know, I've always felt that I could have done a lot more with myself if I had just had the ambition and the drive to do it.


And I feel many times that maybe this is why I did become involved with Charlie, because I felt that he could give me this drive and this ambition to want to do it. But I don't know-I sometimes feel that this is - it's not really that important, you know? That you should have to base all your feelings on it. And I don't think it's as important to him as it was before, but I think it's still there.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So it's like you've definitely decided you don't want it, and he keeps pushing you and it seems to be less important than it used to be? [15:25]


PATIENT: I don't -


COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering where you are in that. I mean, it doesn't seem like - what is it like his pushing you? Or are you just like ready to say, "I'm not going to do that," and then have that be final?


PATIENT: No. I don't feel that I'm really threatened by his insistence, because it's not a direct insistence. You know, it's just a feeling that I've had because of the way he has talked about it in terms of our relationship. Like the fact that he'd always dated someone who was in connection with college, one way or the other. And these sort of like remarks, they kind of stick with you. You know, and of course I realize now that everyone he's associating with during the day-male or female-are all - you know, have a profession. And most of our friends are in the same position. So it's like he's surrounded by it. So although - you know, he doesn't have to say to me, "Well Julie, you have to go to school." You know, words don't have to be spoken-it's just a feeling. It's like this constant pressure because you're the only one who's different.


And I feel that - it's just something that I don't think I want, and I don't think that I'll make a success of it. And I think it's foolish to go just to please, you know, anybody-I don't care who it is; unless it's to please yourself. But in the meantime, you kind of have to keep that a secret. But it's coming out. I mean it really - the feelings of me really not wanting to go are coming out stronger and stronger. And there maybe are excuses connected with it, but it's still put off. And I think the point will eventually get across. But I don't really know what affect this will have on us later on. And this is what frightens me. Because we're in so many different directions now. [17:46]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's just one more.


PATIENT: And we just - we can't seem to really talk to each other about these things that bother us. We go off onto something else that might start - or like this weekend-you just put it off until tomorrow, and then tomorrow never comes. But it's hard to be critical with someone who rejects your criticism or doesn't really listen to it. And that's why I think that I'm finding it more and more difficult to bring up things that are really starting to bug me. And they just really are. I just sit there and I just get so tied up in knots just watching all of this and listening to it, that I could just scream. And I can't do anything about it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. He's gone past you, and you know all the elements in it, but you just can't stop it or really do anything. [19:00]


PATIENT: Like I just have to be - you know, there is just something like if you have a strong feeling about it-like last night, something happened, and I asked him not to do it, and he went ahead and did it anyway. And it upset me very badly because I felt that it was something that we should have talked about. And it just seems like it always goes in that direction. And then if I step up and say anything, well it's either too late or it's already been done. And I don't know if I'm just looking for things to pick. It's like when you find yourself in an unhappy situation, you can just start picking apart everything that's going on around you. And sometimes I think this is what I'm doing.


COUNSELOR: But maybe it isn't all so bad.


PATIENT: Well, not that it's not all so bad, but that he's not all so bad, you know? Because I know, really, that he's not. But it's like I'm just searching now for every little thing. And maybe they were things that upset me before, but it wasn't that important to me. But now, all of a sudden, it is. And I feel that maybe I'm - I can't put my finger on it. It's like - someone said to me just the other day that his parents have been married for 50 years and they hated each other. And that his father could never do anything right, you know-to please his mother. And it was like it really hit home, you know, because that's the way I feel that I'm starting to get. Like everything that he does bothers me or affects me in some kind of a distasteful way.


COUNSELOR: So maybe you're doing something wrong. Maybe it's not all right to see all these little things. [21:23]


PATIENT: I feel that this is probably the one reason why our sexual life has gone down. Because we just have seem to lost all communication with each other. And we can live together happily to a point, but then it comes to a point that we're like strangling each other. And I definitely feel that, you know, like I am doing this to him-because I know that he's not happy. And yet I don't what to do to change the situation. Because I keep telling myself that I want to change it-that I want to make it better. But I can't bring myself around to do it. And it's just going around in a vicious circle. And I can't come to any answers. I just go -


COUNSELOR: Is it like you don't know where to start? Or you just can't bring yourself to do it? Or what? [22:51]


PATIENT: I think it's that I can't bring myself to do it. I think I could - I know where I could start if I wanted to. But I don't know if I want to do it. I feel that - to actually sit down and discuss something would be a start, but it's something that I've kind of gone away from doing. You know, I just sort of let things pass by. But each day, it builds up more and more. And then something will happen that really upsets me, and then it just comes all out in other ways. You know, I get really bitchy or mean or sarcastic-and not just in words, but in actions. So there it is-it's just a mess. And you don't know whether you want to get into that or not.


I deep down feel that I don't want to break everything off completely. I don't think it's reached that point. And I feel that a lot of this is my own restlessness that's causing this feeling. Maybe it's because I have too much time to think about things and that, because of this, I'm looking for things that will cause problems. And I just - but I can't seem to pull myself out of this state of depression that I've fallen into the last year. And it's just a vicious circle. Every day I think it's going to be different-that I'm going to wake up and I'm going to really get up and do something. And then it just - you know, it all falls through. [24:48]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're stuck there. Because if you could do something, it would be better; but you can't get yourself to do something and it goes around.


PATIENT: I keep telling myself that this is the reason that I've been the way that I am my whole life. It's always been this way. I would go for months and just really not care-even go out of the house. And now, it seems like I can't stand staying in the house. I just think that it's because I'm just running. You know, I'm looking for the solution, and I can't find it. But I just can't - I have to be around people all the time.


COUNSELOR: It's like running away from a situation is really hard because you don't know how to get into it?


PATIENT: Um-hm. I can't - I don't know. Maybe it's that I like to be around a lot of people because then I don't have to face up to my own problems at hand. And, as long as we're with a group of people, then I can ignore them-or forget about them for the time being. And it's just something that is getting to be a very big problem. I can't remember the last time that we've ever really done anything together that didn't include other people. And we keep saying that it's going to change, but then by the middle of the week, we're already making plans. And there we are again, you know-with a bunch of people. And it's just something that I don't feel is right. I think that we should be able to find some satisfaction in our own company-with each other. [27:09]


COUNSELOR: So you'd like it to be different?


PATIENT: Yes. I definitely feel that there's so many things that we could do to change everything, but we aren't doing it. And we don't talk about it. And it's just growing larger and larger. And I can't - I don't really know if we are ready to make that drastic of a change. This is sort of a pattern we've fallen into for a long time now.


COUNSELOR: So, if I get this, on the one hand, you'd really like to see a change and you might be able to do that if it were real. On the other hand, you don't know if you want it and you want to hold back a little. Even if you did want it, you'd be kind of cautious about starting it?


PATIENT: I think we can both see what's happening, but whether we would happy another way, I don't know.


COUNSELOR: That's like an unknown.


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: And all you can do is just sort of let yourself drift right now.


PATIENT: We can look back on the way it was before, and it was happy and it was fine. But for the way it is now, it would be - I don't really know if we could tolerate it. It's just something that we kind of joke about now. Just like, you know, we joke about children and joke about sex and joke about everything. It's like a big game, you know? We can't face reality about our problems. We know they're there, but we make jokes about them. And that's pretty awful. I think it is. 


I think it's pretty awful when you can joke about the fact that you never have sex. And you can gag about it and laugh about it-and the only amazing thing is that it doesn't come out in our conversation with other people. Fortunately, we've been able to keep it private. I think once it breaks that level, then it will really be more serious than any of us expect. Right now we've been able to maintain a pretty level head around outsiders. [29:50]


COUNSELOR: It's almost like you're sitting on a volcano or something.


PATIENT: I can't ever remember being this unhappy with a situation-any given situation; except perhaps when I lived at home. And I finally found a way to escape. And I hope that this isn't what this is going to lead to-because I don't really know where I'll escape to. And I think that probably before you (inaudible) that -


COUNSELOR: So things are really bad and you just don't know how to stop it, right? It's just there, and you don't know what to do?


PATIENT: I have no idea what to do. It's so funny because I can just, at times, be so relaxed and can look at everything and be thankful for what I have. But the times are becoming less and less, and I can't really enjoy anything anymore. I don't even enjoy our friends because I'm becoming envious of them, you know, in so many ways. Because other people always appear to have the ideal situation, no matter what it is. And you wonder why you can't have that situation, also. So I'm constantly comparing ourselves with other people.


COUNSELOR: Like you just feel so horrible about the way you are, you have to look to them.


PATIENT: And Charlie's always looking at other people's problems-which kind of unnerves me because I feel that everyone has problems, you know?


COUNSELOR: Now are you saying he looks at everybody's problems but you don't? [32:22]


PATIENT: Yeah. He - I mean it's just like everyone we know, you know - it's this about them or that about them. And yeah-at one point, I used to find this fascinating because I found it was so great if you could go into the depths of someone and pick them apart. But it really isn't, you know? I don't feel that this is why you have friends. You have friends for what they are-just like they have us. And I - it's funny, but I'm becoming very self-conscious because I'm wondering if people do the same thing about us.


COUNSELOR: There was something in that like you're pretty irritated at him for ignoring you, ignoring your marriage and going off with other people-you know, into their problems. Something like putting you off.


PATIENT: Well we've had several arguments about that, you know? Because, like I said, at first it didn't bother me because I wasn't really that aware of our own problems. But then when our problems became increasingly more apparent to me, then I started thinking, "This is really stupid." We have - well, it's really just terrible. Like we have these very, very dear friends of ours that he just ripped into unmercifully one night about the way they were raising their children. And he'd been drinking. That's what I mean when I say, you know, the drinking is a problem. I thought it was just terrible, and I'm sure that it did leave a scar on the relationship. Because you can rationalize the liquor and all that, but still (inaudible) I'm sure they felt that these were things that we had discussed personally, or that he had thought of. And it sort of like brought out all our private discussions out into the open. And the very thing that he done to them, there was another woman at the house who he got into with about her problems-and all her sexual hang-ups, which I thought was really hysterical. [34:56]


And the next day, I just said, "You know, I think this is getting to be really bad." I said, "You just can't go around and do this to these people because you may know what you're talking about, but they didn't come to you for help. And you just can't go around and psychoanalyze everyone you meet." And I said, "I think that," well this when it sort of blew up between [not staff] (ph). I said, "I definitely feel that if anyone needs guidance and help it's us. And forget about them. If they're happy in their situation, fine." But it's happened a couple of times since then. 


But he loves to analyze, you know-and just go into every little thing. And it just bothers me. You know, I don't like it. I think you should leave your business mind at the office and bring home your social mind. And it's the same when you go out into company. I'm not saying that you can't get into an intellectual conversation or something. But anything beyond that, where it goes into personalities, I think is wrong. And we've talked about this at great length, and it happens-it still happens. I mean, this is something that he's going to have to cope with. I mean, we've talked about it and that. And there's really nothing more I can do or say about it, except that when it happens, I can sit there and get all worked up about it.


COUNSELOR: So I hear you saying that you're angry at him for a lot of things and there are a lot of things that bother you. But you've just come up against a stone wall too many times. And like you're just pretty fed up with it. [36:55]


PATIENT: I think that it's because he resents having, I think, other people - I don't want to say criti - but like reprimand. Like, "Johnny, you were a naughty boy last night and you shouldn't do that." Because he even resents it when he's (inaudible) and I've often talked to him about this. Where if he will go into her home and criticize her actions or something she has done. And if she turns on him, he becomes very hostile. And it's more like the same thing with me. And I think it's because his mother never - was really what a mother should be to him. And I don't know-maybe he looks at me like his mother. I really can't pinpoint it. 


But it's like - well, he really - he's the same way with my parents, you know-very, very critical. Always looking for that underlying little thing that other people would just (inaudible) off. And I know that I have become upset with my parents at times when they've done things that have really have angered me. And I'll blow up at them. But it's in a kind of different way, I don't know. And yes, I feel that I have really become more critical of them since I've gotten married than before. It's sort of like everything they say or do really bugs me to death. I just can't stand it. And it's like I - I don't know-everything. Like it's the kind of vacation they take. You know, I sort of make fun of it because it's a stupid vacation. Well, you know, who says it's stupid? And I sort of feel that I'm starting to pick up a lot of these habits, you know, unconsciously. And it's - I don't like it. I don't feel it's right. I feel that, like with my parents, that they can do what they want to do. [39:31]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You're taking on the things in him that you didn't like in the first place.


PATIENT: Um-hm. And it's kind of like frustrating, in a way-to have him be that way with other people. It embarrasses me. I sort of take it on as very personal. Because I think that he has - he's very intelligent and very cordial, and yet these things filter out and I think that it sort of like makes him look bad in front of people. And that really bother me because I don't think it's necessary.


COUNSELOR: And also you feel a part of it, or something. And you're attached to him and therefore you're embarrassed, too.


PATIENT: The profanity that he uses bugs me, also. I don't care for it and I don't think it's really necessary. And someone told him that he had always impressed him as being a very articulate person. And that someone with the knowledge that he has shouldn't have to use these rough, crude words to express himself. And that was really better than I had ever put it. I had always just said I felt it was unnecessary. 


I know that since that person said that-which was only two days ago-but since his profanity has ceased a great - I mean it's very noticeable. And it just is something I had been griping about for the last two years. Because I find that - well, I find that it is offensive to other people besides myself. [41:47]


COUNSELOR: I mean, you couldn't get anywhere with it.


PATIENT: No. But when some (inaudible) does it in two days. Well, it was - but the way it was done. It was really a compliment, rather than a criticism. And I feel that maybe this is why he's - maybe I was harping so much at it that it actually became an obsessions with him to use it, because he knew it bugged me. 


COUNSELOR: And someone (inaudible) said, "You really respect him despite the fact that that bothers you, then that would be better."


PATIENT: I think so. I know that a lot of times I use the wrong approach because I lose control of myself. And I become so angry that I say things the wrong way. And I say things that, later on, I'm sure can't be forgotten. But I become just - I can't control myself in any situation, whether it's panic or anger or anything. I just fall apart. And -


COUNSELOR: Then you can't put things the right way. You sort of (inaudible) out of you.


PATIENT: Well most of the time I don't let loose and say terrible things. I keep things inside of me for such a long time that I never do get rid of it. And this is really the biggest thing that I think needs - we've come to the point now where I can't - you know, like I can't even talk to him about my sexual hang-ups because he doesn't want to hear about them. Because he feels that that's something that I shouldn't talk to him about. And I really don't feel this way. I wish I could talk to him about them. Because I feel that we could work them out better. I just got - there are so many things that I want to say to him about it that I can't because I think it really bothers him. [44:21]


COUNSELOR: So you feel like it's more of less subtle pressure from him not to talk about the things that you really care about?


PATIENT: I think that maybe it's because he doesn't want to admit to himself that I have these problems. Like I tried to talk to him once about these fantasies that I have. And he won't listen. He said, "I don't want to hear about it because I think that's private. I don't think you should tell me or go into detail." And I really fought him at it. You know I said, "But I want to tell you. I feel that if I could tell you, it would be like going to a priest for confession." 


You know, I said, "If I could just get them out and say it to someone, that I wouldn't have them anymore. It would like clear me of them." And he just wouldn't let me talk about them. And I just - so I forgot about it. I never brought it up again because I felt that it was senseless to even try to discuss it with him. Well, and not only that, but it made me really feel self-conscious-to the point that I didn't want to talk to him about them. Then I even thought they were even dirtier and filthier than they were before. And I think that it's really to the point where that's my whole impression of sex anyway-is that it's like dirty. And that I don't connect sex with love or goodness. I connect it in a complete opposite extreme-almost to the point that I feel that would be the only way it would be enjoyable. 


And this is what I can't communicate to him. You know, it's like I don't feel that I could ever have sex with anyone for the sake of love. And that it has nothing to do with our relationship at all. But this is just something that I have built up in my own mind. Because I just haven't ever had a good impression of it. It's always been connected with something like illicit, you know, that - [47:08] 


COUNSELOR: And it sticks with you?


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: And when you're in bed with him, it doesn't have anything to do with the fact that you live together or love each other or anything like that?


PATIENT: Nothing at all. I think that the first time that I ever had any actual encounter with anything that was sexual was when I was about eight years old. And I was taking a nap and I got up and I must have come downstairs very quietly, but my father used to like to draw. And he was drawing my neighbor in the nude. And I just never ever forgot that. But it really - it like was very, very upsetting to me. I couldn't cope with it at all. 


And, of course, the whole thing was passed off very lightly. You know, no explanations were made. And I probably was hollered at for getting up from my nap or something stupid like that. And it seemed like, from then on, you know, I had a tremendous curiosity. But it was all geared in the wrong direction. And I -


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) passed over. Are you saying that's where when you were growing up and this thing with your husband sort of cross over. I mean, it's something illicit, so when you feel. Not only that, but the persons involved just pass over it and you don't talk about it. And you're left.


PATIENT: See it was like - to me, what they were doing was dirty because they wouldn't talk about it, you know? And it probably wasn't - you know, I really don't know. But the fact that it was all kind of covered up and kind of hush-hushed up, it was very upsetting at the time. And then that was when I can remember that I started all this weird investigating. And I had some cousins that lived next door. And the little boy was a year younger than I was. And used to call him on the phone and tell him to undress and stand in front of the window. And then, of course, he would just (inaudible) something, and I thought it was all very funny. [50:00] 


But I never got blamed for anything. Well, no one ever knew that I was behind it, you know? But I always seemed to initiate it all time. And then I'd sort of like step into the background and then be kind of stupid and na�ve about the whole thing. But it was this way for as long as I can remember. Nothing ever was explained to me. And it seemed like I just kept finding these things that - I don't know-I suppose every child at that age keeps coming across things that, at the time, seem new and different to them. But perhaps it's - I don't know. With me, it affected me the way it did. And I just never could get away from it. I've always had this very strong curious feeling about it, but never really an answer to it.


COUNSELOR: You've never been able to find answers. You're saying now it's like - I mean, you shouldn't feel that way. You shouldn't feel that it's dirty or feel like this, but you really do. It's just (inaudible) feeling.


PATIENT: I feel this way because of things that I've experienced. Like I can sit and watch a movie or read a book, you know, where love is exchanged between two people. And I can't really understand how they can get that emotionally involved. It's like I can't feel it, and so I can't understand how they can.


COUNSELOR: Because it's foreign?


PATIENT: Um-hm. It's like I can honestly say there was point in our relationship where I had strong feelings about him, but I don't know if I can really relate those feelings to love. They - it happened, and the lovemaking that happened prior to marriage was kind of-probably because it was wrong-was why I enjoyed it. Because that was my - in my mind, that was my relationship with sex. [52:33]


COUNSELOR: By definition, it is something that's illicit?


PATIENT: Um-hm. And so now, when I think about sex, I can't think of it as anything good and so I can't relate with it as love at all. And so therefore I don't enjoy it. Because of course now -


COUNSELOR: Because (inaudible)


PATIENT: But now there's no longer anything about it that is (inaudible). Right? Now it's not anything that's - I mean, like now it should be enjoyable because you don't have to sneak around and all that. But it's not-because it's not fun anymore. So that's, [like she was telling me,] (ph) it changed when we got married, and it sort of went downhill from there. And now nothing is fun.


COUNSELOR: You (inaudible) sex?


PATIENT: Um-hm. Unless it would have some sort of, you know-well, it can't. I mean, not (inaudible) doing weird things or something. And then I guess maybe it would come back.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) But that seems like a trick for (inaudible) or something.


PATIENT: Well no. It's just something that like in my mind that I think that it would be fun. But I don't know if I could ever bring myself around to do it. See I think of a lot of things in my mind. And I'll invest time (ph) on fantasies, but then to actually do it, I don't think I ever could. Or I don't want to. I know (inaudible) that maybe I could, but maybe that's a (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: If that would be possible, then that might change? That might turn you on?


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: But you're holding back from it? [54:54]


PATIENT: Um-hm. Because I just - it's like I have feelings, but I don't want to be connected with them. I can sit and have very intelligent conversations about sex with people and be very moralistic, you know? And not to (inaudible) and don't even feel like hypocritical about it, you know? And then I can go to the completely opposite, and just have every obscene enjoyment about it that's possible.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. You really know have (inaudible). You have those two sides (inaudible). On the one side, sex is really okay; (inaudible) and it's sort of groovy and it's dirty, it's illicit and it's fun, right? And on the other [that's sort of moral] (ph), and stay away from that. That's bad. You're really caught between those feelings.


PATIENT: I don't feel like I have any identity with it at all. I could never really take a stand on it and be that honest about it. Because there would always be that other side that would come out later. And I don't feel that I want to - most of the time, we never talk about it. I find myself getting away from it (inaudible) as much as possible. [56:41]


And it's - like we've been invited to a couple of parties where they were going to have stag movies, and we've never gone. You know, I always either would arrange (inaudible) as possible, because I don't want to go. Because I don't want people to see what I'm going to enjoy it. You know? It's like a battle. And it's a part of me (inaudible) having people see you enjoy it. No, I don't know. I don't understand. 


It's like a hidden thing that I have within myself that I wouldn't want anyone else to know about. And I can't bring it to the surface and get it out. And yet, it's starting - well, it's getting to be harder and harder for me to conceal it because it's becoming more and more of a problem for me. And I find that I'm becoming more and more preoccupied with it.


COUNSELOR: What if that if people could see that then-what?


PATIENT: I don't know. I'd probably die. You know? I mean, I don't want anybody - I just want to be able to rid myself of it. And I don't know if I can. I don't know if I can ever find complete satisfaction with it. You know, at times I felt like I had reached a point where I had balanced it out. But then it would always go back to being the way it was before.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. And you would like it to change?


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: I was just wondering how it feels to you now-to say those things?


PATIENT: Very uncomfortable. But I'm surprised - uncomfortable, but yet I'm surprised that I'm being able to talk about them. Because I've avoided it before-obviously until this point. But it's - well, it's the real reason why I'm here. You know? And I just had to force myself to get it out. But it does make me uncomfortable. But I think the more that I can talk about it an actually get into what I do feel and think, that it will be easier. [59:33]


COUNSELOR: Is it like it's embarrassing?


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: Because you have that? Because you have the problem? Or what is it about it that's embarrassing?


PATIENT: That I can't - the things that I think, you know? Like I guess that would be the problem. But more like the ideas that I have about sex and what I would find enjoyable against what I feel is natural-would be, in my idea, what would be a natural reaction to sex. And I consider mine unnatural.


COUNSELOR: Like you're just kind of crazy and weird? Not like everybody else?


PATIENT: Um-hm. And - see, usually Charlie will say, "Well, other people are this way. Other people feel this way." But that's not an answer for me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. That may be true, but it doesn't speak to you.


PATIENT: And of course, I'm convinced that other people aren't this way. You know? I mean, it's hard for me - I can't relate my feelings to anyone else. I can't say, "Well, you know, I'm sure that Karen has the same feelings that I do." And maybe she does. But I can't feel that way. And that doesn't make me feel any better, either-as a person.


COUNSELOR: Because on top of that, you can't share it with somebody-on top of already having the problem.


PATIENT: Well it's really something that I never wanted to share with anybody-because I never had to. And now that - if it's reached a point now where it is creating problems that affect other people other than myself, that I have to share it with other people. I probably would have been content to just go along and not even acknowledge it, even though I knew very well it was there. [1:02:17]


COUNSELOR: But you're saying something like now it's time to work on that? It's gone too far to keep it inside?


PATIENT: Um-hm. And I suppose that a lot of it has to do with the fact that I can't - I really can't think of anything else. And I think that's one reason why I'm finding myself in the state of depression that I'm in. Because whether I'm really outwardly thinking about it, it's there. It's always in the background somewhere.


COUNSELOR: And just taunting you.


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: Just that you have that problem? Is that what it is?


PATIENT: Yes. And becoming so obsessed with everything that is connected with sex.


COUNSELOR: That's what bothers you? Just that it's constantly on your mind?


PATIENT: Um-hm.


COUNSELOR: It's not just only that you have the problem, but that it won't leave you?


PATIENT: Um-hm. And I can't - I think I can even really say that the problem that I have with my marriage probably doesn't bother me as much as this does. Although they are probably related to one another. But that's like secondary to me. And I can't really think about anything else but this. [1:04:29]


COUNSELOR: You think it's time to stop?


PATIENT: Okay, I'll see you next week.


COUNSELOR: Okay, fine.


PATIENT: And this time we'll be over at (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: Okay.
