TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client number 0735-103, session number 18, August 28th 1970.
PATIENT: Well I just fiddled around to see if I can get it back up there. Monday to Friday is a long time, you know. Sitting there Monday night at the drive-in theatre thinking what we were talking about Monday, and you know I'm going to ask her some things when I get back here Friday.
COUNSELOR: But you had to wait a long time to ask. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I had to keep remembering what it was I was going to ask. And a lot of things transpire in the period of four days. I'm catching a little bit of a cold. I'm taking medicine and it's making me nervous. In a nervous state, but I went out there in Massachusetts Tuesday. I think maybe some of this stuff is advantageous to kind of wondering what your wife might be up to you know. It gets you on the job, gets the job done and gets you back faster. So it might be an advantage. Get out there, get off the plane about noon, got on the project real quick, got my work done by five o'clock, I was figuring it would take me at least a day in advance, you know? Four hours and I had it done. So I could have jumped on the plane and came on back, but I thought, well I've got motel reservations so I thought I might as well stay the night and go back in the morning. Went out to visit some relatives and that's why I've got a sore back. I was playing football with my little cousins and they tackled me. I came back to the motel kind of late. I stopped at the bar and had a few drinks and I met a guy there from the plant and we got to talking, and so on and so forth. So I didn't get to call my wife. So the next morning I got up and went to the plant and told them to take the machine apart and put it put it back in the corner. They weren't going to use it evidently because the plant manager was kind of upset about the whole thing. And jumped on a plane and came back and didn't get back until about 11 o'clock and that's the time my wife goes to work. This is all leading up to a point in case you're wondering why I'm talking about it.[03:11]
I got back to the plant about eleven, so I had to wait until she gets back at four to call her and let her know I'm back. I was kind of thinking, no I'm going to just not tell her. I kind of like set it up so I could come back to New York about six o'clock, get my rental car and buzz home real quick just to see what's going on. So I guess in the back of my mind I thought, well, I'll still call her at four thirty and tell her I'll be home. Came four thirty, I got busy and didn't get a chance to call. Got in the car and took off home. I thought, you know, this might be a little bit of fun, still kind of like waiting a while to see what might have been happening. All the time in my mind was this, Monday night we went out and stayed out until midnight. Got home at midnight or later and she had to go to work Tuesday at both jobs, so Tuesday night she wouldn't really be in the mood to go out or anything. She'd be too tired. So I felt relatively safe Tuesday night. But Wednesday night I thought, you know she thinks I'm out of town she might have something arranged to I thought well I'll just try to see if I can't sneak in and see what's going on. So I came home. She was around the corner at this girl's getting her hair fixed. And we came by there so I called over and asked her what she's doing. She said, well she's getting her hair fixed, and I said I was just checking to see if you were in the swimming pool. If you were I was going to come over and take a dip too. But anyway she came home and then she went to work. I can't remember exactly how the night went but anyway she got home at the usual hour. 
All the time in my mind there was this, she might have had something arranged and she couldn't get a hold of the guy and she'd have to go meet him as pre-arranged. Like this is the way it used to be. If she couldn't get a hold of him, well she might have to go meet him to at least say hello and goodbye again and all this. And if she gets home a little late I'd have a, like where have you been, type attitude. But nonetheless she got home at the regular hour and I don't think there was any of this passed through her mind, but my mind's still working in this track. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, trying to catch her up there. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Nonetheless, like I said, I was sitting there Monday night at this theatre thinking about what we were talking about here, and I said I'd like to ask her some questions sometime just to see. The use of the word "fuck" kind of surprised me. I don't know, I had presumed that if we had ever talked about the actual experience it would have been sort of "copulation" or something else. But that term kind of hit me and it caused me to think about it for 24 hours or so at least. [06:19]
COUNSELOR: In terms of it made you wonder, how come she used the word "fuck"? Did she have something in mind?
PATIENT: No, I was thinking this term is sort of blunt. Just get right down to bare facts. It's "fuck" and that's all there is to it you know, type of thing. You like to do things like that? How often do you like to do things like that? You know, just kind of things that would pop in my mind. Nonetheless, like I said I sat there and thought about it.
COUNSELOR: It made you want to ask me, do you think of things like that?
PATIENT: Well I don't doubt that you do, but it created a frankness I guess you might say between us, rather than this idea of talking about copulation which is kind of I'll only tell you what I what I think I should tell you to feel safe. But when you get down and say it's fucking, well then there's no bar, we're going to talk about fucking and this is it. It just puts it on a different plane you know.
COUNSELOR: Is it kind of like the message you got was well I'm going to be frank with you and you can be frank with me and it's open between us.
PATIENT: Something like that, yeah. Like I said, it's the idea of talking about it. It's just distance, reserved, only say certain things. But when you put it in the every day street terms it's more or less now here's what it is, we're going to talk about that. It's no holds barred type talking. That's the way it struck me.
COUNSELOR: Kind of something earthy and good.
PATIENT: Yeah, if you don't talk about it then don't pull any punches.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like you don't want to pussyfoot around and talk about [inaudible at 08:39] either.
PATIENT: This is one of my first experiences. Well, in high school I was rather na�ve and some of the first dirty jokes I heard were told by people who were sort of the upper crust at the time and they would tell it in this type of terms. It kind of appeared that this was the social way of talking about it rather than friend-to-friend type of thing. It was more frank. Well let's say it was told in mixed groups like this. 09:23] 
COUNSELOR: Told like in technical terms.
PATIENT: Yeah in very, very technical terms. This is why I think that I think about it that way today when you talk about copulation, this is a really social viewpoint to talk about it. It's a very nice, flowery term that you can put on something that is a bit more earthy than that. 
Before I forget it, in the last 24 hours there's been a little development which has kind of struck me in a way. I was talking to this girl. Her and her husband and me and my wife swung together. And like I said they got interested in this nudist colony down in Pennsylvania. I was talking to her last night and she says something about they were going out next week. We had indicated an interest in going out to visit. So they kind of reluctantly said come out and visit us and I grabbed on the occasion and said, well I'll have to talk to my wife see what her ideas are on it. And she said, well she doesn't talk to her husband so it's all right with him. Talk to your wife and she said, such and such a time would be fine to go out there. So I called back today and talked to her again, her and her husband, so Monday we're going out to this nudist thing and spend the day, Monday night, and maybe Tuesday.
COUNSELOR: Are you excited and pleased about that?
PATIENT: Not really. Two or three years ago I would have been so excited that I wouldn't have been able to sleep maybe for the next two or three nights. But it's just something else. In fact I've got kind of a reluctance, maybe a bit of fear about it. It just kind of strikes me like, maybe it will be all right and maybe it won't.
COUNSELOR: A little worried and disturbed.
PATIENT: I don't know what's causing this reluctance. Like I told her, I said, it won't bother me to walk around down there without any clothes on. At least I don't think it will because I do it at home all the time. But then again when you've got an audience it may be something entirely different. [12:01]
Today's been a slow day at work so therein lies my bored attitude I think. We've got two more sessions? Three?
COUNSELOR: Two more.
PATIENT: Two more? You're going to be out of town all next week.
COUNSELOR: I'll be in town until Wednesday if you're around we can see each other Monday and Wednesday.
PATIENT: Well, we'll be out there Monday so maybe we can schedule one for Wednesday then. As far as I know I'll be here in town. There for a while it looked like I might have to be in Missouri next week but I don't think I will now. It doesn't seem like it's going to be that relevant. So maybe we can kind of schedule one for Wednesday and have one more to go. 
I was telling you that I had gone back to my old habits. I verified this last night that this couple down the street that we had gone out with just socially once in a while. A couple or three times in fact. And I was talking to her last night. What brought it on was the fact that my daughter wanted to spend the night over at their house. I said, yeah. She went down there. The woman had her doubts about whether I had said yes or not. My daughter came back and said I'd have to call her and let her know. I said, okay when I get a chance. And so I got on the phone say for about two hours on this Cub Scout stuff and finally remembered that I had to call her. But before I got back to calling her, the baby which is sick right now indicated that she was sicker than I had given her credit for being, and so I decided that our daughter was going to stay over at our house. That's the way it was. Anyway, I decided that maybe I'd better get together tonight so I called her and was talking to her about maybe we better postpone it until the baby gets well in case she's got something that is infectious. And we got to talking, and we talked about this and that. So I was telling her about coming down here for therapy. So I said in three more sessions I'm going to have to be looking around for another therapist. So she indicated that she might let's say accept the role of somebody that I could call and talk to every once in a while. [15:34]
COUNSELOR: So you lined yourself up another woman.
PATIENT: Lining myself up another woman. I've got to talk about things like this because I'm halfway depressed today so talking about things that I can think of that amuse me. Like I say, today was kind of a slow day and I sat around and read magazines and I think that's about all I did all day.
COUNSELOR: You didn't feel productive and effective.
PATIENT: Feeling halfway sick with a cold or something. You kind of get into a depressed state you know. Like when we had one of those sessions where I went out of here almost bawling. I kind of fight it a little bit and talk about things that amuse me to keep from getting further depressed. 
COUNSELOR: Because you'd like to stay up above being depressed.
PATIENT: I would. Who wouldn't? Like I said, there's a lot of things I think about between sessions and also thinking about whether I could talk my wife into taking one of these sessions. But the way I looked at it, it would have to be with you because you know my background and then you could kind of understand her background and all this. She's got this attitude that she doesn't need anything like this, that she's above and beyond that. So me talking her into something like that would be like me talking that tree into walking home with me.
COUNSELOR: Like you're not going to have much chance. 
PATIENT: It seems that way to me. Some of the things she does sometimes drive me right up the wall. And I don't think that really a lot of the times she realizes it unless I flat out tell her. Like when I came home yesterday the house looked like a tornado had been through the house. I don't know how it kept from tearing the walls down and the ceiling but the house was in a shambles other than the walls and the ceiling, the foundation. I mean I've just gotten to a point where I just kick things aside and make do.
COUNSELOR: So you have to make do.[18:20]
PATIENT: Let's say, kick things aside and tolerate the situation. Like I say, I'd like to see her be about two years in the army. Then she'd learn the advantages to having not only a clean house but an arranged house where things are where they should be. 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 18:49]
PATIENT: Yeah. I didn't like all the spit and polish that they had in the service but still there was something to be learned from it and if there's any way possible I'm going to make my kid go through a couple of years of it at least. It would do him a world of good. 
She's talking about the color of the walls, trees. I'm just sitting here not even thinking now. Sometimes I sit here and think about this, that and the other. 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 20:29]
PATIENT: My mind is in sort of a, well like I said, I've been reading magazines all day today, and this article and that article, and I'm sitting here filing things away in little filing cabinets you know. Not doing any useful thinking at all.
COUNSELOR: Just been attending to your filing. 
PATIENT: I do it mentally. 
COUNSELOR: Organize you mean.
PATIENT: I'm organized. This is one of the bad habits my wife has taught me, how to be disorganized. I went into my daughter's room last night, well, in the wee hours of the night. I got up, no I woke up because I heard something. The baby had gotten out of bed and come in there wanting some loving from mama. So I got up to go to the bathroom, took a pill or something, I don't know. Came back, my wife said, why don't you just sleep in your daughter's room? She was sleeping downstairs. She got to watching TV downstairs and dozed off. I couldn't even wake her up to tell her to go to bed. I tried to wake her up and she wouldn't wake up so I let her sleep. She was laying on her bed down there. I went into her room and it was kind of like going through a garbage dump to get to the bed. Threw the covers back on the bed and it sounded like a mild garbage truck explosion. All the junk on her bed went on the floor. It's just one more room in the house being in the state it was in.
COUNSELOR: And that was the last straw. It's like you couldn't even go to bed without clutter.
PATIENT: I was brought up in a house that was clean and when you went to bed you cleaned up a little bit before you went to bed and that way you get don't get up the next morning sleeping in a sand pile. My wife couldn't care a less whether the kids are clean or not clean. Time to go to bed you go to bed. They crawl into bed with their dirty feet. They eat in bed sometimes and they get into their beds it's like crawling into a sand box. And so the first thing I had to do was clean out the bed after I took the covers off. Other than that I don't mind it but first getting in there and cleaning the bed off and cleaning the bed out. 
COUNSELOR: Does all that clutter and the mess, and the mess in your daughter's bed have some particular meaning for you beyond what you're saying about like it's just annoying and you're used to it being neat. 
PATIENT: No, it has more meaning than that. I've been brought up believing in a certain pretext you might say, that you can be no richer than the guy next door, but if you keep a clean house you seem richer, you know. Two people can be making the same amount of money and one of them can be poor white trash and the other can be respectable middle class just because of the tidiness of the house. And this is something that's laying on my mind, the fact that literally we're kind of just poor white trash when you come down to it because of the way we keep house, whereas if it was clean at least it would differentiate us from this state. And it works on me.
COUNSELOR: It makes you feel lower class.
PATIENT: Of course, I've never said anything like that to my wife. She would more than likely just pass it up as one of my quirks. It used to be that when I came home and found the house this way it would mentally just tear me up. And if I came home all ambitious wanting to do something and the house was all a mess I'd just, you know, forget it. It's not going to accomplish anything for me trying to improve anything around here when the house is in such a mess. But now I come home and if I have ambition enough to do something I do it, if I don't then I don't. The condition of the house doesn't affect me that much any more. I don't know, it's just sort of a stabilizing effect that I guess this program's had on me. Like I said, it does sort of indicate that maybe my wife just doesn't care whether she's in the middle class or the poor white class trash, or whatever. I do and it has a deep-seated kind of effect on me. [26:48]
COUNSELOR: It's sort of like you can't quite hold your head up.
PATIENT: To a certain extent yes. Let's say nowadays it's not that important it seems like, but it still has a little bit of a... it kind of makes me twinge I guess you might say. If my wife cleaned up the house every time I asked her now I might get suspicious, so maybe this is why she doesn't do it. You know she might be doing it just to kind of say well I'm... I don't know. Like I say, I know I used to be this way. When I had a little bit of a guilty feeling about something I'd do something else to kind of waylay suspicion. I think if I ever got a girlfriend and I didn't tell my wife about it, she'd be able to read it because of the fact that I'd come home all ambitious to do something to kind of take suspicion away when I think I'd really be creating more suspicions in the long run. 
I'm sitting here thinking about friends, thinking about work, thinking about friends and that fast.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 30:15]
PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe it just shows my instability. 
COUNSELOR: Shows you as someone that is not a stable, healthy person.
PATIENT: [inaudible at 30:47] 
COUNSELOR: I don't necessarily [inaudible at 30:54]
PATIENT: Like I say, what I need is somebody that I could be around that would kind of have ambitions that would kind of rub off on me, you know. I've been thinking over the last few days it would be nice to have a couple that we could be real close friends with. We never really had that. Well we've never really met a couple that we could get overly friendly with. You know the kind that would, he would be like a brother to me and her and my wife would get along fabulously well. It seems like if we find a couple it seems like it's either I'm overly friendly with him and we get along fine like brothers, and just the wives don't get along and can't tolerate each other or vice versa, the wives get along fabulously and he and I kind of tolerate each other. I think that's what we're kind of both looking for right now is this couple that we could get acquainted with and be real close friends, a basis where he would sort of me a brother to me and she'd be a sister to her and so on and so forth. 
I think that's one reason why I'm trying to get back to this one couple that we tried to swing with. It wasn't successful though. I've been talking to her about, you know, why don't we just get together sometime for a movie, no sex involved, just be friends.
COUNSELOR: It would be nice to have some close friends like that. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it's hard though for four people to get to be real close friends. It would be fine with two personalities involved. I mean four it's complicated. You almost need a computer to try to find another couple that you can be with that way too. [33:26]
COUNSELOR: Just sort of a warm thing you could have.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean somebody that you could talk to about anything under the sun and feel free to say anything that you desire to say. We have these friends of ours at church and if you ever started talking about sex together they would just be flabbergasted. Friends of ours that we swung with, we can't talk to them about church because they don't go to the church we go to. For the most part I guess they don't even go to church. So we don't have a couple that we're really compatible with. This couple down the street, I was talking to her last night. She's blond, very nice looking, nice body. I could really get to be her friend, but her husband's a big, fat slob to me so I can't get it. I sit around and chit-chat with him when we're out but it's all superficial. I don't really want to be his close friend because I just don't care for fat people.
I was thinking on the way down here that my wife mentioned to me something about some date in September when the REO Speedwagon are going to be at the theatre, or something I don't know. I got about as interested in that as I have of swimming the Atlantic Ocean. But see she was trying to probably tell me that she'd like to go to that and if I was a real... the type of husband that would really do anything for his wife, why I'd get some tickets and we'd go to it. I got to thinking it would be nice to have this couple that were real friends with that he would maybe be interested in something like this and he could take her to that and they could go and have a good time. This is the same thing when we go out dancing. I don't dance worth a hoot. My wife likes to dance; she's a fair dancer I guess, but she doesn't like to dance with me because I don't know how to dance. So we try to go out with couples where there's a guy who knows how to dance and who she can dance with and so on. [36:28]
COUNSELOR: Another couple helps her fill in the areas where you're not compatible. 
PATIENTS: Fill in the gaps, right. We've gotten close to it sometimes. There's this one couple that we were very close friends to and they were sort of this way. And my wife had an experience one time and we were fairly close. Something like this, the two of them would want to go to this REO Speedwagon thing, why it's fine, go. His wife and I could never hit it off too well. We were friends but as far as the two of us going to bed I don't think it would ever happen. It didn't and I don't think it would have. We've been friends with them for four years, but nonetheless I keep thinking well I can tolerate a situation where this other couple, if the guy wants to go to bed with my wife and the guy's wife doesn't want to go to bed with me I could tolerate a situation where we'd sit around and play Monopoly or whatever while they were in the bedroom. But this may be not be the same feeling on the part of another couple. This one couple that we're going out to the nudist thing with, if one of them is in bed the other one has to be in bed. None of this I'll stay here and play Monopoly type thing. At least I don't think they would be. What are you looking at me like that for? My amblings have got kind of confused?
COUNSELOR: I don't know if they're really confused. I think maybe... I was trying to figure out like if it's important to you in some way that I don't really understand.
PATIENT: No, you just had a look there that I thought it had gotten to a point where I was kind of ambling and it didn't really make sense. This, what are you talking about, type look you know. 
COUNSELOR: I don't know, I think I was just trying to make some bigger point out of it than the way in which you want to be happy, and you want your wife to be happy too. [39:34]
PATIENT: That's true. But there's a whole lot of facets that have to be fulfilled before both of us are going to be happy. I don't know, I think that's trying to convince myself that I could bend a little here and bend a little there but we can't find another couple that's willing to bend a little here and bend a little there and mesh together so to speak. 
I don't mind being somebody's friend and being used once in a while you know, in the wide sense of the term. But I'd hate to be somebody's friend and used all the time. I used to have this guy that I'd run around with. Anything he said I did. Let's go to this movie or let's drive around to the drive-in. I think during the time we were running around together I never had an original idea in my head.
COUNSELOR: You just tagged along.
PATIENT: Hey, what are we going to do tonight? Yeah, tag along type stuff. Now, I want to be the guy that says, let's do this, once in a while and everybody says, okay let's do it. I never can tell just what I'm going to say that we'll do.
COUNSELOR: You mean like when you have an idea, you don't feel comfortable.
PATIENT: Yeah, let's all strip down and jump in the swimming pool. What? What? The ideas you come up with you should keep your mouth shut.
COUNSELOR: Also like your ideas would be apt to shock people.
PATIENT: I think a lot of my ideas would shock people. I've been going around today with this kind of smug attitude I guess you might say about me. I don't really feel I was presenting it too much. I was kind of keeping it to myself. But, you know this, I'm going to a nudist colony. You don't know what I'm going to do.
I read an article one time about somebody that went to a nudist colony and saw a lot of people in the nude. I was like, I might see some people down there that I know. 
COUNSELOR: Kind of like a kid with a secret.
PATIENT: Yeah, I know where the treasure's buried down at the beach and nobody else knows. Were I just starting my therapy and had I this attitude about me I'd almost take you on to bet I won't smoke more than five cigarettes a day and you won't smoke more than five cigarettes a day, want to bet? But it's kind of late to be starting something like that isn't it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah that's right. We're almost finished.
PATIENT: Yeah. I've gotten into that state now where cigarettes, you know I go into the service station to get some gas and, give me a pack of cigarettes. It's almost second nature now. That's a bad habit. There for a while I was noticing that I'd be sitting not doing anything and put up a cigarette and light it. No, no, no I think I'll postpone it maybe. I had a schedule there for a while where I'd have one in the morning, one just before lunch, one after lunch and then one maybe late in the day, and then go home and smoke a whole pack. I'm trying during the day, but boy at night I just can't seem to fight it. 
COUNSELOR: When you said that about it being kind of late in the day to make a cigarette pact, did that come out of a sense of regret for things we haven't talked about or things that haven't happened and it's already over.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, yeah in a way. Like I said, I wish the heck my wife would encourage me to quite smoking because all it would take would be about that much encouragement and I'd quit. On the part of certain people, just a few people that can influence me this way, but she won't so I guess I'll have to find somebody else to kind of find somebody to make a bet or dare or whatever. This guy one time I was talking to, he said, oh I smoked, I gave it up seven years ago and haven't picked it up since then and what brought it on was I met and I guy and bet each other five bucks that, I bet you'll pick up a cigarette before I will. He said this lasted about three months, six months, something like that. Finally the other guy said, here's your five bucks, picked up a cigarette and started smoking. This other guy said, I'm not; I've been out of it that long, I'm just going to stay out of it. So he did. I need somebody to kind of dare me to quit smoking and I probably would.[45:22]
COUNSELOR: It wouldn't take much.
PATIENT: On the part of a friend, yeah. Some guy come up and say, hey what are you smoking those coughing there, just doesn't do anything for me. None of your damn business and I'll pull another one out and light it up. But if somebody would say, I need to quit smoking. I noticed you smoke quite a bit, let's bet five bucks that we won't smoke. I'd probably take him up on it. But like I say it's kind of late now. 
COUNSELOR: You're kind of regretful?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just wonder, is this a ten-week friendship? Being we're friends, being we're not friends.
COUNSELOR: Like all of a sudden just like that.
PATIENT: It seems like a lot of my friendships seem to be temporal, you know, friends for a while and then you're not friends. Sometimes I get to wondering, I wonder why I don't see so-and-so any more. I don't smell that bad, I took a shower this morning. All this stuff you know. 
COUNSELOR: What's wrong with you that your friends don't stay around.
PATIENT: Yeah. I was just trying to remember what the longest friendship that I could ever remember having. A couple of years I guess. But you know right now I can think of oh, going back to this couples thing, I can think of a lot of couples we've been friends with in the last couple of years. We're not friends with them now. I guess if I sit down I could think of reasons why for reach one of them.
COUNSELOR: I was just thinking in a way we've been talking about friendships the whole hour in a sense.[48:00]
PATIENT: Have we?
COUNSELOR: Well, we've been talking about getting to be friends with couples.
PATIENT: I wonder what that indicates. You might say I'm grasping for friendship.
COUNSELOR: Are you?
PATIENT: Guess so. I guess in a way that's better than grasping for love or sex or something else. Like I say it's kind of hard to hold on to. It isn't anything nowadays. 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 48:47]
PATIENT: Wife, friends, love, sex, anything. 
COUNSELOR: Good things slip through your fingers.
PATIENT: Oh, I didn't tell you about one of my little successes at work, or at least I call it a success. Some time ago we had this... well, let's go way back three years ago, we started working on what they call hot melt. It's a new type of adhesive where you heat it up to three, four hundred degrees, you apply it to something and then you apply something else and it's an adhesive. It sets up that fast. Okay so I got started in this and for a while there I thought well you know I'm the only one in the department working on this. And I considered myself sort of an expert in the field. I was the only one in our division working on it so I thought well I'm the division expert. This is just as a matter of background. [50:07]
And then we got to diversifying and making some other equipment and another guy got involved in it and this technician got involved in it. Well, I can't remember just exactly how he got into it, but anyway he got into this one piece of equipment that came in and got to be the expert on this piece of equipment which was a hot melt applicator. So we got the second one in and my boss told me to sort of familiarize myself with it too. So when he came in I started opening up and setting up and he said, what are you doing? That's my piece of equipment. I said, okay it's your piece of equipment and I walked off. So I got involved in this project a little bit because I made a little bit of a piece of equipment that would put the hot melt in a certain place in the metal end for one of our styles of drum. And then somehow or other this got tied in with this piece of equipment that this technician had done; it got to be one project. I kind of backed off. Okay, it's his project, fine let him do it. 
So the other day, Wednesday, I just got back from Chicago. Came in and about four o'clock this guy gets a call, this technician, that his piece of equipment won't work. He's blowing fuses. We've got a 50,000-drum order and this thing won't function for us. So he goes into a dither, you know. What are we going to do? He calls the manufacturer, the manufacturer tells him what things might be wrong. He calls the plant, check this out. Then he checks it out that won't work. SO he calls back the manufacturer, and the manufacturer says I'll send a representative down tonight. And this order had to be completed the next night. About 24 hours to do all these drums so they had to be really getting after it. Am I running over time?
COUNSELOR: No, no, I'm just looking for a match. [52:26]
PATIENT: So I had my suitcase there right next to the desk and if I'd have been treated right I think, back yeah when this kid came along saying, that's my piece of equipment leave it alone. It turned me off. If I had been treated better then I might have said, hey do you want me to take the one we had here and run it down to the plant just in case the guy couldn't fix the one they had at the plant. I might have volunteered to take it down to the plant you know. But I just kind of sat there and laughed up my sleeve you know. It's his problem let him solve it. I was kind of hoping at the back of my mind that he would fall flat on his face and I'd say, I think you've got the problem solved finally. This is just the way I operate. Kick me in the pants one time and I'm just as well have to do the same to you when I have the chance.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of a success for you.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's kind of a success to have him, as I went home and told my wife, have his tit in the ringer. That's something about I didn't get to call her because the technician got his tit in the ringer and Geoff and I were having to get him pull it out. Geoff's the other guy that works there. So this has kind of cheered me up to see him with a big problem and having to solve it and me just turn around. Came quitting time I just turned around and walked out the door. I had to. There was a car pool there and I had to ride home with him or I'd be stuck without a ride. And I just kind of sniggered up my sleeve and left.
COUNSELOR: ...awfully glad to see him struggling with a problem.
PATIENT: He wanted to be an engineer let him learn how to engineer,
COUNSELOR: And you were like, well maybe now he'll feel sorry for kicking you in the pants.
PATIENT: I don't think he'd ever think of me. I think if I went back and told him just what I'd said here, you mean I did that? Oh come on now, I didn't do that to you. He'd never admit to doing it. He'd never realize probably that he'd made me feel that way.
So we've covered a whole four days. Should we schedule one for Wednesday?
COUNSELOR: All right. One-thirty? 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, I'll see you on the two.
PATIENT: See you on the two.
END TRANSCRIPT
