CLIENT: So Sunday was Ashby's birthday, which—I mean, I guess it's not surprising that the weekend was crappy, but it ended up—I don't know. It was sort of crappy and difficult in ways I hadn't anticipated. Chet suggested that I attend this work conference that sounded really interesting. There was no registration fee. Work would have to cover a hotel and train fare. And I thought—It's like ten minutes from my brother's apartment, so I'm like, "Oh, I could just go [if I could get] (ph) release time," because there's no registration fee, etcetera. [00:01:05]
So Chet was like, "Yeah, can you just fill out the travel paperwork in the next 12 hours?" [I did really quickly], (ph) and then Karl (sp?) asked to meet with me on Friday, because the head of the building has to approve everything. And it was just one of those classic (ph) really useless meetings. He wouldn't approve the travel because it wasn't work-related. Earlier he had said that he wouldn't—didn't want to approve the travel because it was such an important thing for work, that instead of just me going, it would be much less expensive to have the speaker come to here. Now he's just like, "No, it's not work-related." [00:01:55]
[It's almost] (ph) one of those moments where I'm like—where it's kind of like he doesn't know what I do. (inaudible) [They know that a lot] (ph)—like Chet doesn't [really know what I do] (ph) either. He and Chet keep on insisting I fix photocopiers, which I don't. [They had a] (ph) very long time working (inaudible) where I wasn't fixing photocopiers, and I still don't. Then after Karl said, "This isn't related to your work," and I sort of explained why I thought it was related to my work, he said, "No, it's not," and then he started whining about how he's like, "Well, I want to attend these other things, but I can't attend them because they're not work-related." It's like, "I don't care." So then I asked for release time, and he said, "No," but I could take vacation time.
THERAPIST: What's release time?
CLIENT: Release time would just be excused time which I would be paid for. So it's like –
THERAPIST: I see. But that's not counted as vacation. [00:03:02]
CLIENT: Right, exactly. Usually when you attend a conference, you use your—we use release time.
THERAPIST: I get it. (inaudible) you get a certain amount of it anyway to use, or is it something that's just sort of –
CLIENT: It's per management approval, basically. Like sometimes departments (inaudible) if your manager approves it. It's approved and it's separate from the time that I get to take off, which is limited. Also, like if I want to attend a two-hour talk, (inaudible at 00:03:47). So I just thought it was a really dick move, because it doesn't affect really anything. He doesn't have to pay for it. He can just approve it. I don't think anyone in personnel gives a crap right now.
Also he was really jovial about telling me these things. It was weird, because first he's like, "Oh,"—he's kind of like, "I can't approve your time because it's not work-related." Then he was like—Then he's kind of like, "Oh yeah, you can totally attend the conference. Yeah, definitely. If you want this vacation time for that, that would be great." Like I was clarifying (ph) "No, I really want to use the release time." He's like, "Yes, vacation." [So it was very] (ph) like, "What?" So I tried to talk to him about a few other things because we were already meeting. One of the things we were going to discuss is this [work supplement] (ph) I had requested. Like what I wanted was one thing, and what I got was something really different, because Karl was like, "Oh, let's do these other things with it." [00:05:03]
I was saying that it was really frustrating for me and kind of ruined the project, because I couldn't carry it everywhere, which made it useless. Then Karl and I had this argument where he'd say, "Oh no, you don't understand. You didn't request that; I did." It just was like this super gaslighting. He just was really insistent that I wasn't aware of what happened, that he had requested it and it had nothing to do with me or my request for a cell phone. He said, "Well, maybe you weren't here for that." (inaudible) It was really just—I don't know. It just felt like, "Why are you gaslighting me? Why are you doing this?" Like, "I can pull up the e-mail. What is happening?" I was really freaked out by it. [00:06:03]
So I dropped that, because I didn't want to continue being gaslighted, and I asked him about something else. And he started going on. He's like, "Well, you know, you may not know, but there's this group that's working on this, da, da, da." I'm like, "Karl, I'm on that group, and that's not what we're doing. Also, it didn't answer my question." He (inaudible) and then he went into—(inaudible) is he'd been going on periodically about how this was a great time to do new things and try new things. And I was saying there's a lot that I would like to try, but I can't seem to get them done. [00:06:57]
So then he explained there's no point in doing anything new because the (inaudible) teams haven't decided what they're doing. So I just—[I asked him], (ph) "Karl, isn't this—that sounds to me like a contradiction. They can't both be true." And he's like, "No, no, no," and repeated himself. And he was doing this weirdly friendly smile, like, "Right, you understand." So I was just like, "Okay, thank you. I have to go." And he—he tried to keep on talking to me. I think he was disappointed that I wasn't happy with the outcome of our discussion. But (pause)—[00:07:52]
Like I knew he was—[I didn't know he was going to do that] (ph) and I know that, but having him like A, not [having an] (ph) idea what I do, and B, just arguing with me about things that I did, you know, like things that I'm like, "I was there and it happened this way," it was so—it just was really upsetting, just because—I don't know. It kind of made me feel like work is my abusive partner. I've definitely joked about like "Oh, my workplace is my abusive boyfriend," but (inaudible) my workplace is my abusive boyfriend sort of. Then I went back to my desk and didn't do anything for the rest of the day, which was like an hour. [00:09:01]
I don't know. [I was alternating between] (ph) kind of crying, and not wanting to because I was at work, and also not wanting to just because—I don't know. I really didn't want anyone to ask me potentially why I was upset. Chet knew that I had this meeting, and I was worried he was going to come by and ask me how it went, which I really didn't want to do. [00:09:49]
Also I felt like I'd kind of made some plans. I was kind of excited about this conference, and as it turns out, when it's happening my brother and his wife will be away so I could just stay in their apartment, which is super convenient and—you know, it just sounded like—I was just kind of interested in it. I was like, "Oh, and I could [visit my friend.] (ph) I could view this exhibit I want to see before it closes." I just felt like all that was crashing down. (pause) I mean, I told my brother that I wasn't sure if work was going to approve this travel, and I told [other people] (ph) "I think I'm going, but I'm not quite sure." But what—I guess I kind of expected that the worst case would be that they wouldn't pay but they would let me go with release time. I really wasn't expecting just a flat-out "no." [00:11:02]
So that—it was just really—I don't know. (pause) It just made me feel like, "Wow, this is really—like whatever I'm doing is really pointless. This is"—I don't know. (inaudible) not feeling valued as an employee. The whole conversation with Karl was just not—it just wasn't close to reality, and him trying to insist like all these things that hadn't happened, was really upsetting and frustrating and just—I just like—I don't know. [00:12:11]
It's also really hard when people say that he's so affable, he must be a great manager. I'm always like, "No." Like, "You don't—he's horrible." [He also wants to insist that he hadn't] (ph) denied travel—another travel request that I'd made. Yeah, well actually (inaudible) but he didn't know I said anything, which is a denial.
THERAPIST: Like it disappeared.
CLIENT: Yeah, I filled it all out. And he was really insistent on wanting me to go do this event, which I thought was useless and didn't want to go to. He's also forcing another coworker of mine to go to a conference in Virginia that he doesn't want to go to, which is two or three times the price of the one that (inaudible). (ph) [00:13:13]
I'm also pretty sure that part of it is that I'm not a professional employee. I specifically said, you know, "Is this money available for un-professionals?" and he said, "Yes." I'm wondering if the answer is "No." (pause) I don't know. It was really, really demoralizing, and really just—[It was demoralizing. I guess it was also] (ph) a little bit dehumanizing, like I—I don't know. Sometimes I wonder what he's thinking when he's doing these things. [00:14:13]
THERAPIST: If anything.
CLIENT: Yeah. I just am like—I mean, [because also he was] (ph) repeating like, "Well, you should talk to Chet about conferences that are more appropriate." I'm like, "Well, Chet suggested this conference specifically as being appropriate." Then he just repeats, "Well, Chet could help you find conferences that are more appropriate." So actually—did you—it's like, "Did you not understand my words?" (pause) And I want—I don't know. Like I want to go somewhere else with it, but—[00:15:05]
THERAPIST: Like somebody else in management?
CLIENT: Yeah. Except I don't know that—like I don't know that it'll do anything. I don't know that HR will do anything. I just sort of feel like—I don't know—very left out—just kind of left out there with no support. Like all the things that have made my job kind of good, like it's a kind of singular job, it's only—(inaudible) do it. I feel like all those things are now huge liabilities, because I don't have anyone else to work with or talk with about stuff. [00:16:03]
Also, Chet wants myself and Harry, who shares my office space, to move into the office that he uses, which is probably a third of the size of where we currently are. And it would be myself, Chet, a student, or possibly a series of students rotating through, plus Harry half the day. And there's no space for me to work on computers or—so I like—(inaudible) I get to consent to this or not, is part of the problem. [00:17:00]
One of his reasons—he's like, "Well, it'll facilitate informal communication so we wouldn't have to meet weekly in a formal meeting." Which I feel could be accomplished—like if that's the goal, that could be done other ways, like anything else. But again, I don't know if this part of some—It would empty out that big office space or work space, so I don't know if this is part of some convoluted space grab, which—I don't know. It feels again like I'm sort of being moved around without any thought as to what I personally might like or want to do or what makes sense for what I do. [00:18:01]
I can't get anything out of—I don't know. I mean, it's a combination of getting moving around or being told to do things without seeming like any reason or relation to me or what I do, and it doesn't—it's kind of—the explanations I get are so terrible that I'm sort of like, "Is that your real explanation, or is that your fake explanation? Would I even know? Do you even know?" That was the beginning (ph) to my weekend, and it didn't really improve. Ashby did not massively blow up again.
THERAPIST: She did not?
CLIENT: She did not, which was actually very surprising. Although—
THERAPIST: That in itself sounds good. [00:18:59]
CLIENT: Yeah. It was weird, so that was good. I realized Sunday night that I'd been sort of braced for it all weekend. Like Thursday, I think it was like Thursday night, she (inaudible) this weird like, "So it's my birthday." Something happened with a friend of mine who was in town so she got (inaudible) and had brunch. 
So Saturday night she was doing a little bit of, "Well, no one is going to come. Well, if we don't get there at 11:00, everyone will be mad, but no one will be there anyway so it doesn't really matter." Like back and forth. Then once we were there, she's like, "Well, you know, they doesn't really want to come. She (sp?) doesn't want to come anyway because of this." It wasn't really—like she didn't have one big freak-out, but it was sort of just periodically through the evening, she would just be super like all negative about it. [00:20:13]
Also she was really—I get overheated really easily and I haven't been dancing a lot so I got tired, but whenever—like if I left the dance floor, she was really worried that I wasn't having a good time, or that I secretly hated her, or that I wanted to go home. So I'm like, "No, I just want to sit down, you know, outside for 15 minutes." So that was also really frustrating. I don't know. Then I was in a horrible mood for most of Sunday. I just felt really angry kind of at nothing. I mean, I guess at a lot of things more (ph), but mostly (inaudible), and that's just kind of—[00:21:17]
THERAPIST: I guess the (inaudible) not occur with ideas about what you were angry about (inaudible) step back for a minute.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, at one point—I didn't want to buy Ashby anything, because I was worried that she would lose her mind again. Also I just didn't—I wasn't feeling very appreciative of her. But one of her friends gave her a birthday card, so I was like, "Okay, I'll buy her something." She also had a huge—(inaudible at 00:22:00) hissy fit on Friday because her mom—or rather Sunday morning, because her mom sent her something boring, and her mother never guesses, and—Her mom always asks for a list, and Ashby doesn't want to provide a list. She says she's the easiest person in the world to shop for, and it should be obvious, and blah, blah, blah. 
I was like, "Ashby, if you want"—And she's just very—she does not want to provide a present list. She's like, "Well, I think of amazing creative gifts for my mom, and she never gives me a list." I'm like, "Yeah but, either you provide a list, or you accept that your mom can't buy you anything off a list." Like, "It's been a while that you've been doing this, and I hate providing birthday lists as well, but I've also found out that I can't get my family members to creatively figure something out, so I'd rather just tell them things." And she's pissy about that as well. [00:23:18]
So I bought her a fancy whiskey, because she hates (inaudible) liquor. Also a friend of mine—two friends of mine who live nearby are really into whiskey and bourbon, so I just called. I'm like, "I'm at the liquor store. I know you go here all the time. What should I buy?" What was funny is I—she was watching football and she left the room to do something, so I got them out and just put them on the coffee table in front of where she was sitting and kind of walked away. She didn't notice for about ten minutes. [00:24:00]
Then when she finally did, it was one of those frustrating—where she's like, "Oh, thank you." I could also see that she's thinking like, "Oh, you couldn't even bother to go out and find something. You just went to a liquor store." So this morning I just put it in the liquor cabinet (inaudible). I'll drink this too (inaudible). It's not that I don't care. It's that (pause) it would be nice if (pause)—like everything I did wasn't good enough to her.
THERAPIST: Sorry, it would be nice if everything –
CLIENT: If I did something—like if I didn't buy her something she'd be mad. Buying her something also annoyed her. [00:25:07]
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Even though she just expressed how she likes everything.
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible)
CLIENT: I just (pause)—And it's such a non-conversation to have with her. Like, trying to say, "The reason why I didn't figure out something super special is that you were being a super bitch about it, and I had no idea—like I didn't feel confident that you would react positively to anything I did. Also I didn't want to, because you were really horrible." To try to talk about that just ends in this is all confirmation that she's a horrible person who will die alone and her friends hate her. But she also insists it's a conversation that I'm not allowed to say I don't want to have (inaudible). [00:26:14]
I don't know. I guess it just feels like the whole weekend was just disappointments. I mean, also Friday I also cancelled—I was supposed to have dinner with a friend, and I was really tired, and I ended up—She (inaudible) excited at cancelling, which was good in the end. Like there was this torrential rain, which I got caught out in at the grocery store, and like all these things. I don't know. It kind of felt like—it kind of just felt like everything went wrong in a way, like nothing good happened. [00:27:03]
(inaudible) well like this thing was kind of nice. Like when I went dancing is nice. The brunch was good, but—I don't know. Like overall I kind of felt like I couldn't do anything right, or maybe like whatever I did, even if I thought it was right other people didn't. Like Karl didn't think I was doing anything right. Ashby didn't (pause)—I just don't—like I just really don't want to continue this work week. I know it just started, but—[00:28:01]
THERAPIST: Sorry, you just don't want to continue what?
CLIENT: I feel like I don't want to continue this work week.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and it's only Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah. I ended up being late to work for two reasons. One of which was I just couldn't—(inaudible) I just don't (inaudible). Like I just don't want to. I don't [want to have to] (ph) go to work. Then my bus was late by 20 minutes. So I was late. (pause) I think like—I really hate being tracked on my time. Like "Am I five minutes early? Am I five minutes late?" One of the things about potentially moving offices to be in Chet's office is that since I'll be sitting next to him, it's going to be, "I noticed you came in at nine (ph) on Tuesday," forever, and I—yeah. It's not that I don't—I don't know. That one always drives me crazy. [Especially since I feel like] (ph) I work over—I know I work more than the time I'm supposed to every week anyway, so—
[00:29:34] (long pause) [00:30:53]
THERAPIST: What is this? Are you upset or (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Both. My eyes are allergy-ridden and I'm upset.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) I'm not interested in the allergies.
CLIENT: I feel really helpless. I mean, and like whatever—like that even if I try to do things like try to take control of my personal life or work that (pause)—I don't know. Because I won't get listened to or that, you know, like I'll get—like what I want to do will be knocked down for no real reason. [00:32:03]
Also [mornings like this] (ph) I often think I really wish I could convey to Chet that it's really hard to get going in the morning. Like it's really hard because I work [some days] (ph) and I'm really doing the best I can, and I don't actually want to do it every day either, but I think this is the best I can do. But I really don't feel safe (ph) talking to him about why that's true, anything to do with my mental health, or really anything. [00:33:02]
I was talking to HR about if I needed—we were scheduling appointments, like what to do if I have a lot of doctor's appointments during the day. And they're like, "Oh you should (inaudible) to protect your—as job protection in case of (inaudible) absenteeism. (ph)" I just (inaudible) like, "What?" Like, "Uh, I don't think this is quite appropriate, but I don't want to talk to you about it."
THERAPIST: The "you" in that case being HR or Chet? [00:33:49]
CLIENT: I didn't want to talk to HR or Chet about it. Partially because Chet was going really crazy when I wouldn't tell him what was wrong last time. It seemed to hurt his feelings, and I don't care, but it made working with him difficult. I don't really trust if I talk to HR about this that this won't somehow (pause) be used against me, like "This is a reason to fire her, or lay her off, or whatever." I don't know. I guess I kind of want—I would love recognition, or maybe just to myself that getting to work every day is—it's hard, and that's kind of an impressive or good thing that I can do that. [00:35:13]
THERAPIST: [You've been feeling really low.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, down. But I don't –
THERAPIST: Kind of a fight every morning, or most mornings?
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I've tried things like setting my alarm earlier, which helps somewhat. Most days it's more like low level, but some days I just sort of sit there and I'm like, "I don't want to get up. I don't want to—I just don't want to do this." Like I'll sit on the sofa kind of—where normally I'm like, "All right"—[load my iPod, finish a call, or whatever] (ph) to leave the house, and I just sit there and think, "I just don't want to go. I want to call in sick. I want to just not go." [00:36:10]
One of the reasons why—I mean, I could take—[I could always be like, "Oh, today is mental health day,"] (ph) except that I feel like if I do that, then it would really be like half the month is mental health day. So I don't want to start doing that. (pause) It'd be easier if there were things at work that, you know, were rewarding or something. And for whatever reason, this conference kind of got in my head as something that would make my work feel kind of good, and now I feel further behind, I guess. [00:37:14]
THERAPIST: It sounds like the way this works is that you sort of—What I think feels like dehumanizing (inaudible at 00:37:44) that you're treated is upsetting in itself, and is upsetting because you don't know where to go with it. You're helpless, as you said, to do anything. (pause) So somehow those feelings lead to your shutting down, and when it looked like there was this conference you could go to that felt, I guess, a little more like being acknowledged, or having a mildly (ph) special or nice thing happen to do with work kind of specific for you, but when the rug was kind of pulled out underneath it, underneath you, in just the sort of way you're getting upset about in general with work—other places too but for now work—it made things worse. Does that seem possible? [00:39:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that is a good summation of how I feel. (pause)
THERAPIST: And I'm aware that's not at all a prescription. [00:39:46] 
(long pause) [00:41:48]
I have to stop in a minute, but was (inaudible) that came to mind just now?
CLIENT: I was thinking about talking to my brother and—I don't know. I kind of want to talk to him about it in part because I'd be possibly staying in his apartment. But I don't know—I guess there's a way in which our jobs are really—I feel like the work he does—he has a little more control over what he does. Because he's an engineer, because (inaudible at 00:42:43) design things. It just makes me feel like—I don't know. It makes me feel non-accomplished, or like I should be further ahead than (inaudible). I feel like sometimes it's hard for him to relate because he hasn't—that's not like what he's done professionally at all.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Okay. [00:43:20]
END TRANSCRIPT
