TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I was having a kind of—I don't know. Like [emo] morning. And I asked a friend to have lunch. I was like, "Let's have lunch at 12:30." And "Yeah. Let's do that." And then we were walking over to the pharmacy and my phone beeped saying I had therapy. And I'm like, "It's 1:15! I should be there now." 
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: So yes. And then I came over here. So the weird part, or the (inaudible at 00:00:36].0) part is I've been feeling like extra mood swingy and just really emotional for no reason. And I figured out—I'm pretty sure it's because I got a substitute birth control pill pack. [0:00:57.5]
THERAPIST: You got a substitute? 
CLIENT: Yes. Okay I went to the pharmacy and they said, "Your pill has been pulled off the market temporarily. Here is an equivalent." And like they didn't have the other one because the FDA yanked it off the market. So I'm like, "Okay. I guess I'll take this equivalent." And since then I've been feeling really upset sometimes. And having breakthrough bleeding. And just feeling really weird. And then I realized like wait a minute –
THERAPIST: When was that?
CLIENT: Like a month ago. 
THERAPIST: Oh. 
CLIENT: Yeah. One of the reasons why I take the pill is I have horrible PMS if I don't. And like—I mean not just even PMS. It's lots of hormones causing unexpected like, "I'm really upset right now." For no reason for ten minutes. But I also—they also started subbing a generic for Lexapro. So I'm hoping it's the pill and not Lexapro. But I guess I've got to find out. On Friday I got a new prescription for a closer equivalent to my birth control pills. And I'm hoping that works. [0:02:25.9]
So I've been taking the pill since I was about sixteen. And I've gone off it twice since then. And both times it was kind of like—you know friends were like, "Well maybe you shouldn't be taking all these medications." And blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, "It's true. I've been on the pill for a really long time." And then I come off it and be like, "Wow I feel horrible." Back on pill. So yeah. I just—I don't know. 
I guess I'd forgotten the part where when I first went on the pill it took awhile to find one that worked without making me feel crazy. One pill variety I just cried a lot and ate a lot. I was never full. It was weird. I always felt hungry. I never felt satiated. And then I would cry a lot. And I got really upset over (inaudible at 00:03:42].0) probably birth control pills also. It was a mess. (sighs) [0:03:48.2]
So yeah. I usually—I don't know. It always makes me feel very out of control. The couple times I've had the full like all my hormones and PMS. I guess part of it is whenever someone says, "Do you think it might be PMS?" I usually get instantly furious. And then if it is, I'm like, "And I still hate you. Even though you were correct." Like I'm still really angry about it. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughing)
CLIENT: Because I just hate it like, "Oh she's got PMS." [0:04:30.2]
THERAPIST: Sure. 
CLIENT: But even if I do it's not acceptable. 
THERAPIST: (laughs) I think I understand. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so I just really hate this like—you know. I don't know. It's like I just don't want to sort of—I don't want another reason to feel weirdly emotional about things. Or stuff. I don't know. And I also have an afternoon meeting. Like three I think. About the (inaudible at 00:05:15].4) tables. Which I think will be delightful while I'm also having crazy PMS. And I don't know. So I went to this conference two weeks ago. [0:05:30.8]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: That a friend of mine was speaking at. And they're talking about—so they're specifically looking at archives and ways to take existing stuff you have in your archives and digitize it in various ways and make it more accessible. And there are like a bazillion ways to do that. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: And then also what product that they've tried and that they haven't tried. And like is crowd sourcing, transcription for instance, a good idea. And sort of like the Internet and libraries. So it was a really interesting conference. Like a little one-day conference in a lot of ways. The most interesting part to me was someone was talking about, "Well the problem with crowd sourcing is you're relying on unpaid labor. And is that really fair?" And I'm like, " I don't know. It's a good point. You are exploiting workers." I mean they're volunteering to do it but is it still exploitative? [0:06:46.6]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm like mm. And this one librarian next to me was talking and she'd done a War diary and letter transcription project that had become amazingly popular. And they had a lot of people doing transcription. And then a small base who did a ton. Like some people would do like a few letters. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: And some people would do hundreds. And they would get really used to someone's handwriting or whatever.
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: And (inaudible at 00:07:19].5) younger people can't read cursive handwriting or script anymore. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) Makes me feel old.
CLIENT: (laughs) I know! It's (inaudible at 00:07:31].8) I'm like, "What?" And then my roommate Ashby goes, "That's true." It's like I'm so old I can't—so previously they had been transcribing in part because delicate materials or whatever. And now they're like, "Oh students just can't access this material unless we transcribe it." Well fuck. So they've been doing it more. [0:07:57.3]
I ended up talking to one of the librarians and she recognized my name. Somewhat depressingly. Not because we've ever worked together. Although I did interview her about something very briefly like two years ago. But because I've talked a lot on the library transition staff list. And which made me feel super paranoid about having done so. And wanting to do so. (sighs) 
THERAPIST: "Oh yes. I recognize your name." Sort of way. 
CLIENT: Well she's like, "Oh I recognize your name! What was it from?" She's like "Is it this?" I'm like, "It's from the library staff chat list where I've been really mouthy." And she's like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah." [0:08:50.6]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Fuck. Like similarly when I've been tweeting about the library (inaudible at 00:08:56].7). Several people were like, "Oh yeah. I've been reading your tweets." I'm just like, "Stop that!" I mean that's what I wanted but I didn't want you to necessarily connect that directly to my face. Super awkward. So I'm still really feeling like I don't—(sighs). It's so unclear. Like we had this discussion. Mailing list. And also made another discussion list. 
THERAPIST: Right. Something along the lines of just because you're doing something voluntarily doesn't mean you're not in a vulnerable position? 
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I'm just going, "Uhh." Because—and part of it is like there are things I'd actually like to talk to my colleagues about. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it's a little nerve wracking to be one of the people that people remember talking about it. [0:09:59.0]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: And particularly there was this new project that they announced that's—it's really, really stupid. I'm slightly bitter because it got funded and a project that I wanted did not get funded. Out of the library (inaudible of [00:10:17].2) program. It's called The Incredible Box. And what it is, is a box at the circulation desk, separate from the box where you return materials but probably right next to it, that says, "Incredible." And if you put books in it they get tagged in the card catalog as awesome. And there is a little portal you can go to to see what's been tagged as awesome. 
And I'm just like, "That seems like something that would be really cute for a teen room. We're a series of academic libraries." And also there—like conception like, "I guess it would be nice what people (inaudible at 00:11:04].3) liked." Like in a kind of vague way. Except that it's completely anonymous so there is nothing to stop (inaudible at 00:11:15].1) from dumping like twenty of their books in the box and walking away. [0:11:20.1]
And it's already clear from looking at it that that's happened at least a couple of times. Or someone put a book in the awesome box thinking that they were returning it. Kind of unclear. And I've talked to several coworkers and we're all just like, "We don't understand. What's the point?" Like the box that they're using is of course like a $300 custom made pine box. I'm like, "Why did you do that?" And they're like, "Oh yeah we made this LED display." 
THERAPIST: Is there a Microsoft service table on the side?
CLIENT: It's from the—it's like from the contractors we use that give kickbacks. And they regular charge hundreds of dollars for boxes. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So that's also like a side annoyance. I'm like—the head of operations won't let anything go out to bid. [0:12:13.3]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because he wants all the contracting to go to this friend's company which he insists is cheaper in some way. But it never is. And no one talks about that either. Which is great. So I really want to ask, "Where is this going? And how do you see it working?" And like blah, blah, blah except that I don't know if I want to be the first person who has said publicly, "That seems kind of –." (inaudible at 00:12:50].8) say it's dumb. Just to be like "So you know like why would a patron care that's it's been tagged as awesome? And what does that even mean? And how is this helpful? Or is this just more useless data?" Like I'm willing to believe that there is thought behind it. But I can't like—and I would love to know what that thought is. But I can't—I'm really worried that saying anything will sort of continue to bring attention to myself. [0:13:38.8] (pause till [00:14:09].1)
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm worried about is it seems like you think it's a pretty dumb idea. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And then you kind of—I wonder if the worry about people sort of flagging you or you being vulnerable has anything to do with the fact that no matter how sort of neutrally or diplomatically you ask, you actually think it's dumb. [0:14:31.5]
CLIENT: Yeah I do. I guess part of it is—part of me feels like, although I know this is not true. I'm like they really couldn't have spent—like they made a video of making an LED flashing sign for the box. It's a cool flashy sign. It looks like retro Las Vegas. I'm like, "Well if you're doing all this, there must be more behind it that I don't get." Except that I kind of know that's not really true. Like the library transition team is willing to throw a lot of money at something really stupid. But I'm also like, "But, but all this stuff is –." Like everything around it kind of gives the illusion—I feel like there must be something more because why are they spending this much money and effort and publicity? And then I think, "No. There isn't a there there." [0:15:40.0]
And it would be better to just not even say anything. Like the complete lack of response is a response. Because no one has said anything about it. It was announced in the staff chat list. Everyone went, "Yep! That happened." And some of the libraries have been just delaying putting the boxes out because they don't want to. (laughs) That's the other thing. I don't know. (sighs)
I guess (inaudible at 00:16:19].2) I feel like one of the reasons why I haven't pursued a corporate job—there are a lot of reasons—but I sort of feel like this is becoming like –. Friends of mine who work in industry talk about things that make no sense and getting really super caught up in mindless, make no sense, jargon or like having to spend all this time to preparing really fancy reports for nothing. And that's starting to feel like what I feel like. [0:16:54.3]
I'm just like, "But –." Working in an academic library—well we never have to say we're making a profit. So no one ever says, "Well that project is a bad idea. It's not profitable enough." Which can be good because like then we can support continuing an academic database that frankly is low profit. But whatever. And so now I feel like—I don't know. It's like we're selling New Coke. And everyone is like, "No. It's really great. It's awesome." 
And since we've already—they've already put all this capital and energy into it, they can't admit that New Coke sucks. Or Pepsi Clear or whatever. I'm just kind of like, "Ah." In that way—I don't know. I feel like—it's like Kafkaesque bad capitalism. Or like friends are like, "Yeah we have to this and this stupid thing because the advertiser said so." Or all of that. I've felt relatively inured from things like that. And right now I'm just like, "This feels like we're doing something because it focus grouped well. Not because it's a good idea." Even though it wasn't actually focus grouped. But –. [0:18:29.1] (pause till [00:18:44].3) 
Yeah. I don't know. It also feels like—I got an e-mail from the head of work on Friday that was really hostile. And it began with, "Where are you? You have to let us know where you are?" And it was sent before nine a.m. And I don't get to work until nine a.m. And he said, "Why didn't you didn't do this simple thing?" And this other simple thing and this and that. "You need to tell us what you're doing." 
I'm like, "Uh okay this really kind of a hostile way to do that. Also I don't work in your office normally." And blah, blah, blah. And so I sent a response that was diplomatic. And so Chet called me first thing and was like, "Did you read that e-mail? You should really answer it." I was like, "Okay, thank you." Because it was cc'd to him. And I just really didn't want to work at all after getting this really hostile e-mail. [0:19:50.5] (pause till [00:20:10].3)
THERAPIST: I think a lot of this stuff gets you really mad but I think you do feel—even in here—like very exposed and vulnerable when you actually get really mad. Which I think maybe part of why you sort of present it in a much more mild way—I mean I think you're referring to a pretty significant corruption of the work environment which seems to me like that would be a pretty big deal. [0:20:55.4]
And your sort of tone as you present it—again it's like fairly mild and it's clear it's bothering you but I guess my impression is you're really mad about it. I don't know if it's madder than comes across to me or madder than you realize but I think pretty angry. And with the e-mail from the head of I.T. as well—I mean you sort of describe how he sent you an e-mail that was scathing that didn't need to be. And that where he was also clearly wrong. I guess—and then about how you felt kind of shut down afterwards. I think. [0:21:58.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: My hunch is that—I don't know if—. I can imagine three possibilities. One is that I'm just wrong. Another is that you feel angrier but you present it in this way because otherwise you'd feel more vulnerable. And the other is—again assuming that I'm onto something—that you really are angrier maybe than you realize about it but without being aware of it kind of present it in a more low key way than you feel it. I guess it would seem to me—the first case isn't that interesting. But—maybe it is. (laughs) But the second two are worth knowing about because (inaudible at 00:23:04].0) you do have reactions like feeling shut down or really unmotivated. Or maybe anxious at times. For reasons that aren't clear in the moment. [0:23:16.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it might be more option number three. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I think part of the feeling exposed is that—I guess I feel like—. I'm like, "Well you know the head of the department sent me this really scathing e-mail and he cc'd it to Chet. And my other manager." (inaudible at 00:23:47].9) And they both acted like that was a totally cool e-mail. And completely fine. So I'm just like, "Am I the only one that thought that was hostile?" And (inaudible at 00:24:05].2) being like maybe I'm just overreacting. I don't know. And with things like the box project I just end up feeling like, "Am I the only one who knows that this is really stupid?" [0:24:20.2]
And when no one else is saying or doing anything that—I guess agrees with how I feel about it—I just up end up feeling just really disconcerted. And part of why I feel vulnerable I think is because I'm partially worried about my perceptions but also I feel like, "Well if everyone else is agreeing—if no one else is willing to say that this is weird or bad then like—." If one person says it, then that one person is a troublemaker and a problem. And they're obviously wrong. If a bunch of people say it then maybe we all agree. 
THERAPIST: Do you feel that way in relation to my reaction as well? In other words if I don't react in a way that's similar to how you feel it (inaudible) your doubt as well? [0:25:31.2]
CLIENT: No. I don't think so. It's more like—I guess like at the time. Or that day. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: You know I'm just like, "But, but." And sometimes just in like saying it. I'm like, "Oh yes I see how I'm kind of underplaying something because it's easier to talk about it." (pause at 00:26:09].5 to [00:26:19].2) 
I mean the option that the head of I.T. is just really hostile and the two people that are supposed to be supportive are just not is not a really great option. Because then I'm like, "Well then, who else would—I'm (inaudible at 00:26:39].9) and my actual manager (inaudible)—if they aren't going to say anything. Then (inaudible) supportive." [0:26:51.3]
Like what do I do? I'm just kind of—I feel like I'm really fucked. And I feel like—because this is the second time he's sent like out of the blue super hostile e-mail. And then when I answer and say like, "What are these other things?" He didn't respond. And never brings it up again. So I'm just like—the first time it happened I was like, "Okay. I'm pretty sure that he was pissed about something else and was yelling at me. Okay." But now that it's happened again and I'm still not getting any like support from the people that are supposed to provide work support, I don't really know what to do. Like H.R. has been pretty much—has pretty much said, "We don't fucking care. We have other things to do." I'm like, "Okay." So I don't know. It's like I feel super institutionally vulnerable and unsupported. And I don't really know where else to go. [0:28:18.6]
THERAPIST: Unusually so. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I feel like I—part of (inaudible at 00:28:28].0) transitional (inaudible). Things are moving and some people's jobs are kind of like in the air at all times but also I just—it's really (inaudible) and clear to me if I bother to talk to H.R. with a—I mean the last time they just said they didn't care. So I don't know if they'll care now. The guy above the head of I.T., because I.T. is being merged, he definitely doesn't give a fuck. Like I'm really sure on that. So like I don't know. [0:29:12.6]
And so far the only thing that Chet has done at all lately is—wanted me to come up with a list of achievements for my end of year performance review. Which are really—I can't put it off much longer because it's due at a certain point. But last year's performance review had the surprise insertion from someone else about my desk being messy. So I'm kind of like, "Is there anything else? Is there going to be another fun surprise insertion?" 
And when I try to talk to Chet about this he just gets—he either gets flustered or he's like, "Well you don't know that that's going to happen. So you shouldn't think that just because it happened before that it will happen again. Don't be negative." Blah. Which isn't helpful, supportive or make me feel confident in anything. And also there's that H.R. did actually say that no one ever reads these. So except they might this year because of the restructuring. (inaudible) year that they do. [0:30:53.2] (pause till [00:31:21].8) 
I think also the other thing that makes me tend to really minimize is that I'm used to a certain level of like talking about things that makes it clearer. And my work experiences lately have been talking about something doesn't make anything clearer. So like if I ask someone, "Why is this happening?" or Why are we doing this?", the likelihood of getting a coherent response is fifty fifty.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: So I'm always like, "Should I bother? Should I not bother?" Like this might be the fifty percent of the time that it's useful or it might be fifty percent where I'm hitting my head against the wall. [0:32:13.8]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:32:14].3 to [00:32:55].3) I don't know. A few different thoughts. (pause at 00:32:56].8 to [00:33:33].3) (inaudible) I feel like (inaudible) I think more about it is you're saying, "Look if I'm really minimizing or whatever the reason—and it's because I feel vulnerable like this and exposed—that has to do with the state of the world. And my repeated experience of not being supported. 
Of not having (inaudible at 00:34:04].3) recognized at all. And instead, having people around be sort of randomly, weirdly antagonistic." [0:34:19.0] (pause till [00:34:32].4) And I don't know. Maybe that's just simply true. I mean like it could be the state of the world. But not necessarily all of it but where you work. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: That particular—
CLIENT: Like it could be just that's how work is. This work is. (inaudible at 00:35:00].4)
THERAPIST: Yeah. There are sort of a few indications that there may be other things going on in addition to that. At least it indicates to me. Such as the way this stuff continues to surprise you. I don't remember a time that this was ever not true. That we've talked about work. And that doesn't mean I'm disagreeing with your perception of the reality but I think we've talked about this before. Like how—nonetheless it's surprising sometimes when this kind of stuff happens. [0:35:35.8]
Or at least the way you describe it to me it's vastly more often what does happen than somebody responding in a more supportive way. And I guess there are some other things there too that I want to think some more about. Like because your feeling of vulnerability and you're kind of, let's say sort hypothetical or for the sake of argument thing that we're talking about now, is the minimizing happens unconsciously. [0:36:18.2]
I don't—and that –. Again I'm not disagreeing with your perception of the state of the world out there but imagining that there is something more complicated than just reacting simply to that in what you're doing. Because usually when it's that it's sort of more—you know it's really infuriating you but you also know you better keep the lid on it. So you're sitting there going, "Uh, uh, uh." Or whatever. 
But it's not like that. It happens more smoothly than that. And without your kind of necessarily being aware, I think, that that's what you're doing is kind of minimizing and distancing yourself a bit from how mad you are at some of the stuff. Again that's not to take issue with how you're perceiving it but it's just that there's some way that's interacting with what's going on inside of you that's complicated and probably worth looking at. We should stop for now. 
CLIENT: Okay. So I'll see you next week. 
THERAPIST: Next week. Yeah. [0:37:42.2] [end of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
