Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: (tape starts in the middle) being late.
CLIENT: Well I'm having a rough morning.
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm sorry you feel that way.
CLIENT: I did a, went to have a follow-up check on the IUD and they were like, oh, this doesn't look right. So they sent me down for an ultrasound and then in between, I tried on two different occasions to get blood work done that has to get done today because my doctor's leaving town on the weekend, I lose my insurance at the end of the month. And I was too dehydrated both times which was like, poked around me with needles for awhile and then they're like "Why don't you go drink some water and come back later?" (laughs) So, yeah, I was not a very good morning. (Pause)
[00:01:17]
CLIENT: I'm so frustrated that the phlebotomist asked me, are you taking any medications, oh, let me tell you (laughs) about the like, eight different medications that I take (laughs). I don't know. I was just hoping this would be easy. It's like, you know, I knew there was a 10 percent risk that it just like, the IUD just falls out for women. And I knew that there is a risk that it's going to hurt but it hurt like fuck. And I now I don't know if I can do it again. (crying). I don't want, really hurts. I don't want to have to face that. (pause) (sobs)
[00:02:50]
CLIENT: (big sigh) Today is not ...everything that could go wrong is going wrong. But many of them are (sniffs and laughs).
THERAPIST: Yeah, it hurt like fuck and it hurt for a long time.
CLIENT: Yeah, it still does, it hasn't stopped. It's just like, less and less and I can deal with it. So whatever . But I don't want to do that again. (sniffs). It's also, you know, being on birth control limits the brain's drugs that doctor (inaudible) prescribed for me. And clearly hormones mess with your moods in some way. And so like I would like to see whether this is a factor. And I'm kind of grasping at straws. (sniffs). And strange to say, this morning, I feel like I'm doing better overall, a little bit, sort of. I mean it's hard for me to say because like Friday, Friday night was like really, really, really bad. But then Saturday and Sunday were great (sounds upbeat). And Sunday I don't take my Adderall and that's usually a really shitty day and I was fine. But it's just so much harder for me to deal with disappointment than just not to be, have expectations in the first place. I don't want to say anything or like, I don't know what to say. Like I can't, I'm not good spotting patterns in myself, anyway. (pause) I feel like there's a brief moment in time where I feel like every medication that doesn't have bad enough side effects that I have to stop taking it in two days, is working. (laughs). Like, no, no, sorry no. (laughs)
[00:05:52]
CLIENT: It's just so much worse (crying, big pause). You know, and it's like with my mom, we were talking about last time. I do hope that she will change but it's much better for me, it feels better for me overall to just say no, she is what she is. Okay, what do I do then? This is what I have to live with. How do I live with it? (crying) But I don't, I don't know how to live with this. If I could live it, I wouldn't be there (laughs). (long pause)
[00:07:55]
THERAPIST: What happened on Friday night?
CLIENT: I just, I don't really even know, like there wasn't anything specific that triggered it. It just felt worse and worse and worse. I talked to James about it for awhile, but I, I don't know. Yeah, I wasn't, I had the afternoon ahead of me and I wasn't feeling, I was like, I really wanted to get work done but I couldn't make myself do it. I sat in the library until it closed and I just couldn't do anything. That never really sits very well with me. (laughs). As much as I tell myself, I am going to have those days and that's okay. It's NOT okay when I have those days. And so it was kind of a downward spiral. I didn't hurt myself. But I almost did (inaudible). And then I went to sleep eventually. (pause) I kept on thinking I would pull out of it and I didn't.
[00:10:18]
CLIENT: I miss being able to work hard. Yeah, I really, I'm struggling to work ten hours a week. That's crazy. That's crazy (laughs). And I don't, I don't understand why I can't. I mean, times before when I've been depressed, my work really didn't suffer that much. You know, I got it done at whatever personal expense, but I got it done. Maybe I just don't care enough, not willing to make things worse for myself by pushing to do more work. If that makes sense. (inaudible).
[00:11:40]
CLIENT: I had lunch with my former advisor on Friday. That my, she was my advisor. She's an incredible woman, I very, I just really, really admire her. I spent the first three semesters that I was there, completely, I couldn't tell whether she liked me or not at all. She's very, very shy. Like even more so than most academics. Just super awkward. Then, I found out when I left that she really liked me. She gave me a copy of the letter of recommendation that she had written to me. And, did I tell you this? I was like, no I can't, I can't read somebody else's letter for me. I just, that's not okay, even though she had given me the copy. So my friend Candace (?) was like, I'm going to keep that for you. (laughs). Then she sent it to me and I read it. And she said, I might be the best student that she's ever had.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's really nice. It's really cool. And so, she's in town. Her mother is in an assisted living facility in the area and so she's doing research here over the summer. So we had lunch. (inaudible). I don't know how I'm going to be a part of that world anymore. (pause) I avoid people because it, I feel like they think of me as somebody who is a part of their world and I don't feel like I can live up to that anymore. I was like the success story in my class.
THERAPIST: At William &amp; Mary?
[00:14:05]
CLIENT: At William &amp; Mary, yeah. I got in everywhere. Well I didn't get into Ohio. But I couldn't, well I mean like I was wait listed. But I got into a lot of places and pretty sure that any school that I had said you are my top choice too, would have let me in. As I talk with people who haven't seen me much since then, like, I feel like they still think of me as that person. It's just not. Like I didn't think of myself as that person when I was that person, like what the fuck is happening. (laughs). This is really confusing. Success? I don't know what to do here. (laughs).
CLIENT: So two men in Theology, one of them is at the college now and, started last year, and another one just moved here starting in the Div program, who were in the program with me, a year below me. I went over and had drinks with them on Saturday night and it was really fun. We had been planning it for awhile and I had always not been feeling well enough to go over. And it was like really fun. It was really great to talk to them. They were such good people, and really smart and really passionate about Theology and articulate in a way that most people who are deeply religious are not articulate. (laughs). And they're really great. But it was like, I didn't know what to say about myself. Yeah, you don't want to lead the conversation with, "Oh, I'm talking a year off because I've been suicidal." (laughs). But that's pretty much the only thing that's been going on in my life. Everything is coming from that right now. Almost, at least. And so what do you do, you know? I tell them at one point in the evening, and (inaudible) that puts like such a burden on the other person because they don't know how to react and they have to like, you can kind of see people like feeling their way and like "How does she want me to handle this?" (pause) But I had a really fun evening. (pause)
[00:17:41]
CLIENT: What am I going to do this afternoon? I have to work today. I have to get stuff done. But I'm not in good shape. (pause) I like it, when I'm doing it. Yeah. (long pause)
[00:19:25]
CLIENT: It's like, when things are at their worst, I can say, okay, you know what, I just can't do anything. It's this or kill myself. So I'll do this (laughs). As soon as it edges back a little bit, I don't know how to handle it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) And you're not feeling (inaudible) disappointed in like therapy or me at the present?
CLIENT: No. I mean I feel like it's been really good. I feel like I'm learning a lot and working on things and so on and so forth. It's just, I don't know how to get out. (crying). (inaudible) always end up some evening, holding a knife. I always do. And I just don't know why. (crying) If I could schedule it, maybe it would be easier (laughs). It actually helps to be able to say, okay, Sunday is probably going to suck, I'm just going to take that as a given. Don't plan anything for that day. Let that go. (crying) (pause)
[00:22:31]
CLIENT: I mean cognitively, I'm pretty okay with just saying, yeah, I don't have any control over this I don't have any control over anything. Period. At all. You know, I can say okay, if that's the case, I'll learn to live with it. But I don't know I have to. I need to feel like I have control, inaudible through crying) that I need. So (pause for crying).
[00:23:44
THERAPIST: Well, what happens, how did you get to the point where you're holding the knife like on Friday?
CLIENT: It's as though, I can kind of watch my thinking becoming more and more unbalanced. And then my emotions becoming more and more kind of sad, upset and angry. But I can't stop it. I don't, maybe I'm distractable sometimes, but I'm not sure if the distraction is actually that helpful because then it just means that I shove it down somewhere, but it's still there. And, so I go from a minor disappointment in myself to just screaming at myself in my head.
THERAPIST: What do you say?
[00:25:18]
CLIENT: Just you're so horrible. You're disgusting. You shouldn't be here. (pause). There was a story, a short story in which the narrator is the author and he talks about the kind of curse of the author and like even when he's in a car accident and is maybe badly injured and somebody else may be badly injured, and it's like this crisis. Somewhere in his mind still stores, this is what the glass looks like when it was broken. This is what you have to write this down later. And like I do that. There's part of me is saying, this is what's happening right now, but I can't get out of it.
THERAPIST: You're still in a car crash.
CLIENT: Right. (laughs). Yeah, so like that afternoon, I'm like okay, I'm not doing so well. You know, I feel like I'm not going to do so well. And you know I, it's like you see it coming but, I don't know what to do about it.
[00:27:28]
THERAPIST: And you didn't know why it was coming?
CLIENT: I think it was partly having lunch with my advisor. It was really good, but the combination of having to talk to people (laughs) which is tiring and kind of trying to explain to her a little bit of what's going on in a way that's honest but doesn't make her uncomfortable. And, (pause) yeah, feeling just
THERAPIST: I can imagine it sort of, (pause) being confronted again by the disappointment and frustration about what's happened.
CLIENT: I didn't really think of it in those terms then. But yeah, like there's this huge distance between the person that she remembers me as, and she still believes that in me in that way. And what I feel like I am and what I'm doing and yeah. I called James and he was kind of impatient with me about it and just like, he was working and wanted to get back to work. But it was like, it just didn't help. And what I said to him was, "Yeah, I really need to go work, do work now but I just really don't want to." And he was just like, "I can't help you with that." (laughs) I don't know, but then, things didn't really get bad until later that evening, like 8 or 9. So I don't know. Yeah, as soon as I didn't have anything else to do. (pause)
[00:30:31]
CLIENT: It's like, some things help me cope some of the time, but nothing helps all of the time. And so, I don't know. (pause) Yeah, I just really like to be the person who is able to engage in the things that I like to talk about, I like to think about. Things that I, (inaudible) if you take away everything else that makes me not good at them. (crying). It doesn't stick.
THERAPIST: Well, I think you're sort of very attuned to and affected by your sense of the view the other person has of you. I don't mean like if you think somebody feels critical it's her fault, well, there's some of that. But I'm thinking more like about how you were probably pretty vividly feeling when you were talking to your advisor? You know, her (inaudible) talents and potential, the future she saw for you. I don't know but I would guess that was pretty vivid for you while you were talking to her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that the gap between that and how you feel and are functioning mostly now was dreadful.
CLIENT: And on top of that, I have this work that I can be going, that I NEED to be doing but that I'm just finding myself unable to do or, it's really difficult. Yeah. And so I
THERAPIST: Well, are those things related in that maybe you're just so furious at yourself when you're sitting there trying to work.
[00:33:54]
CLIENT: I don't know. When I can get into it, I immerse myself in it. But it's very hard to sit down and do it. I kind of dread it. I'm afraid of it. It's very hard to, like the way, it's very hard to schedule my day in such a way as to make it easier. And that's frustrating. The Adderall keeps me up and then I wake up late and so I lose like half of my work time. Since, if I can be doing it, I can do it. But the rest of the time, I'm just so (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Because, and I think that you're upset about work, like, how much grief you feel for where you're at professionally now, makes it more difficult to work?
CLIENT: I don't know. But it seems reasonable, but it doesn't bring in real (inaudible). (pause)
[00:36:20]
CLIENT: I feel like I'm bound to disappoint the people that I'm working for right now. I've already disappointed my teachers at William &amp; Mary and I don't see any way out of it. And so, but I can't, so a part of me says, "You should just stop promising things that you can't deliver." But I don't know how to do that (inaudible). Oh, that's sounds like something that I could do and it would be really fun. Yes, you should hire me to do that, I should do this. This should be what I go after. But it feels very selfish. I'm so (inaudible) about this editing. Part of that is (name?) fault because he sent me everything in a PDF form. And as it turns out, PDFs don't go back into Word in the right way. Even if you have Adobe Acrobat. It just doesn't. So it took me a few days to get the right files. (inaudible)
CLIENT: If this were two or three years ago, I would say, I'm so behind, I'll just work ten hours straight the night before it's due and it'll be fun. And I would do that and it would be fine. But I can't promise that to myself anymore. But I also can't get out of the habit of thinking that's something I'm capable of, you know. (long pause)
[00:39:44]
CLIENT: I don't know what I'm going to do in the Fall (very soft, not sure).
THERAPIST: I think pretty much everything you said today has to do with disappointing other people or disappointing yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess maybe in the beginning a little bit about being disappointed by medications and doctors, but since then, I think (inaudible) letting people down.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm just waiting for them to notice.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm not sure about this, but I imagine that you know when you talk about how bad things get on a bad night, but in a way, you're sort of talking about, you're kind of grieving for what happens when it's like that. But I'm sort of suspecting there's an element of feeling like you're being a disappointment, not necessarily to me, but it's not what you're supposed to do. It's not right, it's not how you're supposed to be.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think there's also just grief in there, but.
CLIENT: Yeah, pain's just (pause), yeah, I don't understand why I'm like that or why I do that. (crying). It's hard for me to talk about it because there's not very much that helps so it's just easier, I just want to deal with it myself. You know? And not put, I mean, you and James, in the position of seeing that I'm so upset and not being able to help.
THERAPIST: I see. So
CLIENT: I guess I thought about calling you on Friday, but I was like, no, no it's fucking Friday night. No, that's just going to make me feel worse about myself. I can't do it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
[00:42:39
CLIENT: Fridays and Saturdays, typically it always seems to be Friday or Saturday. I just, it makes it harder.
THERAPIST: No, that's important, but actually that's a slightly different kind of guilt than the, you don't want somebody else, like James or like me to see you like that and be helpless.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's also, I mean, I don't want to be disappointed in you. I don't want one more time just to find out that nothing can be done. It's easier for me to decide that for myself and then go (inaudible). (pause) It's also like, well, it's not so bad, well it's not bad, well it's not so bad. Well it's really bad but it's one in the fucking morning. So (laughs). (pause)
[00:44:44]
THERAPIST: Maybe sort of an issue is, even if you're talking, let's say to me, how much are you still in it alone anyway?
CLIENT: That's kind of what I mean by, there's nothing that can be done.
THERAPIST: That means that even if we're talking about it, let's say, on the phone, if there's nothing that can be done, you're as much by yourself?
CLIENT: Well, no, it's more that, even if we're talking about it, I'm still alone in it. And so that really limits the extent to which talking with anybody will help. Because, it is like I'm in another world or in another, it's hard to even, it's difficult to even feel as though we are communicating because it's just I'm so far out of my mind that I don't, yeah. I feel like I'm in a nightmare and I'm alone and there's nothing that can get through that.
THERAPIST: I see. You're inevitably alone.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's like, it feels as though that is the nature of it.
THERAPIST: We should stop now.
[End of file]
END TRANSCRIPT
