Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hello. So, there is a lot of stuff today. Uh, so Jenny has been in town, she did come over last night and we cooked, and it was, a little weird. She brought her partner Mark over; who I was also involved with to a lesser extent than Jenny. Um, and it was really strange because she was really quiet and withdrawn the entire evening and, you know about fifteen minutes before Mark was planning that maybe they should go, she just stopped talking to anyone entirely.
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: I'm not really sure what was up with that. Mark was being remarkably like cuddly and affectionate and snuggly and like...
THERAPIST: With you.
CLIENT: With me yeah. Um, which is not usual either, he is usually much less physically demonstrative, so I was just terribly, terribly confused, and they left relatively early. They left at ten o'clock. Um, so it was really confusing and they're gathering a group of their friends. There's probably going to be like fifteen people for dinner at a restaurant tonight and then going to another friend's house for poker night. Which, I may have mentioned poker night to you.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's put on by some of the popular kids?
CLIENT: Yeah. I was gonna go to that, but there's a wedding this weekend that a lot of people are in town for and the bachelorette party is Friday night. And Saturday I'm going out to dinner, Dave and I are going out to dinner with another out of town friend and her partner and there's the wedding on Sunday. And let's see there's something going on Tuesday afternoon. I can't remember what it was.
But you know I was out with people on Monday night. Sunday night was the anti-racism dinner and I'm just feeling horribly over socialized and like I want to stay in today. But I don't know how much of that is just, like I legitimately need a break, or how much is... there was...
THERAPIST: In response to last night.
CLIENT: In response to last night, how much is the developers of the game I've been playing introduced a new release, and I just I'm addicted to the game. I actually had to be quite stern with myself to log off and come here on time today.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I wasn't on time, but I never... so it's ok. (laughter) Um, so there's all that going on. And then, I got these two really horrible e-mails yesterday and today. One was directly to me from my priest about mother's day this Sunday, um, it was you know, "Hi Cody! You've been on my mind and in my heart lately. I am so aware that mother's day celebration is this weekend and we make a big deal and I'm worried that that might be a little bit painful for you and some of the other women in our community".
And then she went on to say, I just want to reach out and touch that painful and tender place in your heart and let you know that I'm thinking about you. Um, referencing my miscarriage of course; um, which she knows about. And then she went on to say, you know, but you know you are also mothering your husband and the anti-oppression teens so I don't want you to feel that you don't belong among the honorees for the mother's day theme on Sunday.
It was just so...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I wasn't sure if I was reacting to the fact that I just don't like Julia, and I don't like her mannerisms, and they grate on me, or if this was actually offensive. So, I forwarded this e-mail to a couple of my friends, and they were all like, "Oh my God, what the Fuck?" (laughter)
Uh, and then the newsletter for church comes out every Thursday morning and it's you know, the traditional thing at our church is for the men to make all of the snacks for the coffee hour and make more elaborate coffee hour than the regular Sunday with hot Hors devours and desserts and things and then dress in formal wear and serve the ladies. And I've always found this kind of weird and distressing and kind of sexist in some ways.
Like it's, even before I was even thinking about kids. Um, it's like we're going to complete all women with mothers and celebrating all the women of the parish with mother's day. And the requirement that the men buy fancy hors devours which you know, prepackaged ones from Trader Joes, not everyone can afford. And be, like reinforces this sexist notion that men don't know how to cook and are completely hopeless in the kitchen. They can just buy frozen things to heat up in the microwave.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And the requirement that they wear formalwear, which is really classist. And it's just, I always get upset about this every year. But this year, having that come right on the heels of this really remarkably offensive e-mail directed at me personally was just... I'm really angry and, to be honest, I'm really, I don't understand why I'm still attending this church.
Because it's (sigh) the parting lines that a lot of Christians give when you're having difficulties with your church is that your church is your family and you don't like kick someone out of your family because you're having difficulties with them. And of course you know, and I am married to some guy who makes terrible remarks every year at thanksgiving but you let it go because it's family and that's what church is like.
To some extent I agree with that, but (sigh) like I've skipped more Sundays than I've actually attended in the last year just because you know the sermon in general Julia is a terrible sermonizer even when she's not being offensive. But you know? She publishes the title of her sermon before church.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: Um, and there have been times that I've just been like, "Wow, that title is so something, I don't even want to go and listen to it"
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And you know, when I do go, I've more often than not, just feel angry and disconnected from everyone. And, (sigh) mothering the anti-oppression team. I just, I don't like, (sigh) it brings to mind (inaudible at 00:06:44]) to me, people like, you're familiar with the imagery in the sun (inaudible at 00:06:53)?
THERAPIST: I think so; this would be like um, free of like African American nursemaid basically.
CLIENT: Yep. Who loves the white people so much and wants nothing more in life than to see white children thrive and grow. And that's not... (sigh) and apart from maternal being you know, as far from the way I feel about the anti-oppression team and I don't know what's a good analogy of saying it's about as far away as Los Angeles to New York. Something, it's (pause) yeah, I don't... [00:07:42]
THERAPIST: I think in this you've brought up so far you're like a bit weary of your anger, maybe? I mean, um, not that it's there, and not for some of the causes that seem to be quite reasonable, but it sounds like you worry a little that you'll uh, like act on it too much in ways that will be, I don't know, too caustic for you or something?
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Maybe I'm missing it, yeah.
CLIENT: So what does it, I mean apart from the obvious things to be upset about, like people's actions. [00:08:36]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think my own reaction to what upsets me the most, you know, why am I still engaging with this group of people who made me miserable. You know, why am I still engaging with this group of people who make me miserable. Like, what, I don't understand what's motivating me to stay. And if I could tell myself, if I understood my reasons and I thought they were good, that's fine. But as far as I can tell, I'm staying just because. Because Saturn has rings, I don't know. [00:09:01]
(sigh)
Pause at [00:09:04] to [00:09:18]
CLIENT: And maybe I'm worried about giving up. I don't want to give up on yet another thing that I've started. Like I gave up on grad school.
Pause at [00:09:33] to [00:09:46]
I don't know, maybe giving up is not the right way to describe what happened to grad school, but it's certainly how I feel.
THERAPIST: Mmhm. Yeah. (inaudible at 00:09:55)
CLIENT: (Sigh) So I got this stupid e-mail yesterday and I tried to put it out of my mind because Mark and Jenny were coming over and I was preparing food. Um, and I get this stupid e-mail this morning, um, about nine o'clock and I tried to compose a response kind of detailing my concerns with the celebration in general and what the e-mail what was directed to me personally. I just literally started feeling tired and sleepy and like I wanted to put my head down and take a nap even though I'd just woken up. [00:10:42]
Um, I gave up and played my game for awhile, baked some cookies and came back to it you know. Tried to sit down. Tried to write um, you know this time maybe I'll write a handwritten letter, just to show this wasn't dashed off in a hurry in anger. And again I just felt so tired, like I couldn't lift up my arm because the pen was too heavy. Like it was a very physical feeling like physically this is just too much. [00:11:15]
(sigh) I feel guilty for sharing some of the things she said in this e-mail with some of my friends and discussing it because the official formal policy of the church is that if you have a problem with another member of your parish, you're to discuss it with them directly first. And then discuss it within the presence of one or two witnesses. Um before you then make it known to a bigger group of people. While I've been very careful to keep most of my frustrations out of the circle of people who actually attend my church, I (sigh), I don't want to talk to Julia to her face because I don't expect that she'll recognize that what she's doing is stupid. She needs to stop. [00:12:11]
But I very much feel like that's what I should do.
THERAPIST: Um, (pause), yeah it sounds to me as though (pause) it feels kind of hopeless.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And will only result, as though it will only result in your being hurt more and maybe even worse. [00:12:59]
CLIENT: Right, as has been the case with previous conflicts with Julia.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Um, and at the same time, and I guess this is what you were talking about yesterday, you have you know there's a strong part of yourself, part of yourself that you kind of are quite proud of... Uh, that's ready to really you know stand up and let her know what you think and what's wrong with what she wrote and how she's looking at things and, I guess I imagine that may have something to do with why your reaction was such a physical one is because I think that the part of yourself that matters a lot to you, and um, that there's something about the way that it could uh, lead you to be hurt further. That's sort of hard to reconcile, maybe even hard to think about such that you know, you just felt like taking a nap. [00:14:31]
CLIENT: Yeah.
Pause at [00:14:35] to [00:15:10]
THERAPIST: Um, (pause), I can imagine why you stuck with the church had something to do with all of that as well.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: A couple of those that occur to me are, um, that it can be hard to have the confidence to find something better where people would actually sort of act in ways you valued more or did not act in ways that you you know, perhaps found so incredibly offensive and you know like problematic. And importantly where what you thought or you saw things was paid much closer attention in general. [00:16:30]
I don't mean, attentive as opposed to ignore, just um like, you know you could jump up and down and wave your arms and shout in a lot of these settings in church and like, you know, it, it wouldn't make a difference.
CLIENT: Well I think in some settings, well on some questions it actually has made a difference, especially when I was on the board of elders. Um, and I have been listened to on a number of important questions. [00:17:00]
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: But, and I think also there are two big things in general that frustrate me about Christian churches, is that Christian churches have a tendency to not be gay friendly. And they also the tendency, white Christian churches to have unexamined white privilege and not do much about it. And, I feel like if I left, pretty much any church would have those two same problems. You know, at least St. James is integrated, you know about 30 percent people of color which is pretty much better than any other Episcopal church except the historically black ones. [00:17:50]
Which the only one here has its own problems with having you know, an aging congregation and the diocese not letting them choose their own priest. And like, they've just got a ton of problems, many of which are not of their own making. They also are remarkably hostile to LGBT people. So, I don't think that would, it would be an improvement in one regard but not in the other.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And also most of the problems are just with my priest, and the priest is not the congregation in Episcopal churches. I noticed some, like protestant denominations like the church is almost like a cult of personality around the past, the pastor stays with the same church for like thirty or forty years and it's not the case in the Episcopal Church. Priests tend to stay for eight to eleven years. And that's you know, eleven is pushing it, and then they move on. [00:18:48]
Um, you know the hierarchy and historically this has always been the case in the American Episcopal Church, the belief is if you have one authority in the same church for too long, that causes too many institutional problems and is ripe for abuse of power. And so they try to cycle the priests out, so. (sigh)
I don't know, part of me is just counting the days until Julia decides to move up the career ladder or retire. [00:19:19]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: But um, yeah. And the whole situation is so frustrating and, it's been on a backburner for awhile because of me trying to graduate. And now things have got pushed aside because I was in constant crisis mode, with the thesis and now like.
THERAPIST: They're emerging.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) But it is then about more a mixed bag than the way I was giving credit for being in that there have been times where um, what you said, that it has been heard and taken into account. [00:20:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. Our previous two priests before Julia were absolutely wonderful, I worked for both.
THERAPIST: So that's possible too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
Pause at [00:20:42] to [00:21:04]
THERAPIST: The other thing I wondered about is whether you feel um, no matter how entrenched, some of the problems, a real responsibility to fix them and to stick around.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Until they're fixed.
CLIENT: I don't know that they are fixable, at least in any short time horizon. These are all entrenched problems. [00:21:39]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: That will take years and years and years to address. But, I'm not even sure this is true anymore now, but when I first started pushing for more awareness of race and class dynamics I felt very strongly that was a divine calling. That it was a path that God had put me on, that this was something I really needed to do in this community and I don't (sigh). I don't feel that anymore and I don't know if that's because I was deluded in the first place or because I'm just burning out from actually doing the work or because for the last couple of months I've completely neglected my prayer and spiritual life because I've been in crisis mode about school and that threw everything else in my life off the rails.
Like, (sigh) I could keep spinning out hypotheses but I'm not sure which is true. But of course there's always the hypothesis of glorifying him. People like Hawkins that, any belief in god is completely delusional you know, top to bottom, so. [00:22:48]
THERAPIST: What if it felt that way to you? And?
CLIENT: Most of the time now (laughter)
THERAPIST: It also sounds like, you're feeling more distant from, I guess that aspect of your spiritual life. [00:22:48]
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Like, less clear, what you're called to do now.
CLIENT: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: I just, um, largely for at least in some term because of you know, having needed to focus on school stuff and crisis mode.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm saying is, that sounds pretty clear, although there are things that are not. Um (pause) which I don't know to me, sounds important period. To set your sense of love?
CLIENT: What sounds important period?
THERAPIST: Well that uh, (pause) you're not feeling as kind of spiritually connected as you often have.
CLIENT: Right. Sorry, I lost track of antecedents. [00:24:38]
THERAPIST: Sure.. Sure...not a problem.
CLIENT: I would agree with that. (pause) But I mean, people will learn and may have said that that's normal and to be expected.
I didn't grow up in this tradition, I converted um, you know about 19, so there's the religion my father followed and what I grew up with is much more about you know, you follow the rules and how you feel about your faith doesn't matter so much, it's just following the rules damnit.
And studying, studying the scriptures and like treating them as a scholarly interest is pretty important but like, our feelings, that's kind of secondary. Um, I don't know if that's universal throughout this denomination or if that's just the way my dad does it? Um, yeah. [00:25:47]
Pause at [00:25:47] to [00:26:16]
CLIENT: A couple of years ago there was a set of letters and memoirs from Mother Teresa that was published and uh, I got it from the library and read it. According to the editor of that book, even Mother Teresa went through very long stretches of time where she was you know, completely distanced from God and felt no sense of spiritual connection at all. And, I don't know the church is trying to canonize her. I guess if it was ok for her to feel that way, it's ok for me. But it's still not a very good feeling. [00:27:07]
THERAPIST: What's it like?
CLIENT: (sigh) Mostly guilt. Like, I seem to have this idea which is very popular in evangelical Christian circles and the U.S., and as far as I'm aware is not, has no direction at all among non American Christian communities or even in Catholic or Anglican or Orthodox Christian groups in the U.S. You know, if you're feeling distant from God, you're not praying enough or you're committing some sin and are unrepentant about it. You just need to be a better Christian and God will start talking to you again, and (sigh) well you know, the rational part of my brain knows that's completely crazy and is not supported by the doctrine of my church or by the historical understanding of the church over the last two thousand years. But I don't know it's a very powerful narrative that seems to have infected me somehow. [00:28:17]
THERAPIST: Uh, it sounds to me; you're reminiscing in a lot of what you grew up with. Not in terms of religion but in terms of school.
CLIENT: How so?
THERAPIST: Uh, if you weren't doing the best at every possible thing that you were doing, you were clearly fucking up.
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: And um...
CLIENT: I hadn't realized that connection, but yeah. Very similar. [00:28:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah it's not about misunderstanding or limitations that in some sense reflect badly on you personally or um, you know some sort of respectable ebb and flow.
CLIENT: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: It was, sinfulness and character in here, but usually mortal as far as I can tell.
CLIENT: A little bit of a character, but not too much. Yeah. No, I hadn't seen that connection before, but I see what you're saying. But. [00:29:51]
Pause at [00:29:51] to [00:30:28]
THERAPIST: Does any of that, it doesn't sound like that translates to your relationship with Julia, I guess I just want to make sure that in other words, you know, she isn't great at being in charge. I don't have the impression you're blaming yourself for how she's acting towards you. It sounds like you're just critical and pissed off.
CLIENT: Pretty much yeah.
THERAPIST: Ok. Yeah. (pause) What else comes to mind? [00:31:12]
CLIENT: Mostly I'm just mad at Julia.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I'm trying to psych myself up for actually writing to her when I get home cuz, I don't know. I'm not up for actually having a conversation with her but I think you know, I should at least write to her. [00:31:37]
THERAPIST: What are you thinking about writing?
CLIENT: I don't know, among other things, I'd like to point out that saying I'm mothering my husband is really fucking creepy. And mothering the anti-oppression team is really fucking offensive. And the fact that there is no pastoral care offered to people who cannot cope with mother's day, like I don't know a Saturday night service or even just lip service to the idea that you know the idea of motherhood isn't you know, all positive for everyone. [00:32:14]
That's a pretty big concern. Just off the top of my head I can think of eight people who have trouble with mother's day. And who don't go to church on that day because it's too much for them. Either because they grew up without a mother, or their mother was abusive or their mother has died recently, or, like (sigh). Not to mention the completing you know, honoring all the women and honoring mothers, and how like that really essentializes women as nothing more than walking wombs. As if the only benefit we provide to society is offspring, which is all kinds of horrible. (sigh). [00:32:52]
So I guess those are the three most important things, although I could nitpick a whole lot more that's wrong with the whole thing, but I don't know I think if I want to be heard I need to stick to the two or three biggest and choose which battles to fight. Because the whole you know, it's really classist to assume that everyone can afford to buy stuff from Trader Joes and wear a suit. That's I don't know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's a problem that I don't want to muddy the waters too much, I don't know if that's just cowardice speaking though. Or if it actually is strategic. It's hard, there's always this temptation with the activist mindset to be ideologically pure, and if you can't be one hundred percent ideologically pure, then you're failing the movement somehow.
I'm not even sure what the movement would be in this case. [00:34:06]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: This would be the potentially self critical part of this impulse to like you better have an impact. I guess that just seems to (inaudible at 00:34:27)
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: And it also honestly, it doesn't sound to me like you feel anxious about writing to her about the class aspects of it, at least not any more so than any of the rest of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, no more so than any of the rest of it. Um, except in the, in the sense of, what I'm talking about, sexism, that's an ism where I experience the effects on the losing end of the stick, whereas with class issues I'm kind of on the winning end of the stick there. [00:35:11]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. (pause). I'm still going strategic.
CLIENT: Ok. (laugh) I don't know if I'm going to go out tonight or just stay inside and just mope. Maybe not mope, maybe more dwell unproductively on the things that make me unhappy. I think moping has a more generalized connotation. [00:35:58]
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) Like being depressed generally rather than being upset about X, Y, and Z.
Pause at [00:36:16] to [00:36:50]
THERAPIST: It, it sounds like what would be, not even that, I think maybe what you want of it from me, is um, is support and some reassurance around all this stuff it's stressful to be angry at Julia and feel responsible about doing something about it, or for dealing with whatever is going on with Jenny and...? [00:37:25]
CLIENT: Mark.
THERAPIST: Mark, sorry.
CLIENT: That's ok.
THERAPIST: And especially with the way that you can be pretty second guessing of yourself around these things. And I think don't easily feel sort of at ease about yourself in the midst of dealing with these things.
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: And, like reassurance and support, you're really denied. Am I being helpful? (inaudible at 00:38:21)
CLIENT: Mmm.
Pause at [00:38:27] to [00:38:42]
THERAPIST: I have the impression you feel somewhat on your own some of, I mean some of your friends agree with Julia being ridiculous which sounds like it was quite helpful to you. Yeah.
CLIENT: I think a recurring theme in my life is like I don't trust my own emotions. Like, I pretty routinely need someone else to look at a situation and say no what you're feeling is ok. Like it's ok to think this is ridiculous.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: I'd like to be able to trust my own feelings. I think that would be nice. [00:39:26]
THERAPIST: I think so too. Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) Yeah, cuz it's like you're often come along with this worry that they're not appropriate to the situation or, you're doing something wrong in feeling the way you do. In response to your feelings.
CLIENT: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: (pause) I'm not sure you were really allowed much in the way of feelings growing up.
CLIENT: I guess that's one way to put it. I mean I could quibble and say that mother allowed much expression but I mean at some developmental stages there's no difference between what you feel and how you express it right?
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And certainly my parents did not model expressing any kind of emotion other than rage and pride, and that was about it. [00:41:08]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I guess uh, maybe I'm quibbling a little bit, about emotion and their expressions.
CLIENT: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: It's one thing if there's like with different cultural aspects of that, where in other words, it's not ok to loudly proclaim ones feelings, but there are kind of, it's ok to have them and as long as you express them in the right way they're ok. And there's some acknowledgement that that's ok.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't have the sense there was that. In other words like, well as long as you weren't loud about them and you know, you weren't trying to offend anyone with them that was cool. You know, it was more, my impression is more like that dimension of your being is not all right.
CLIENT: Right. [00:42:11]
THERAPIST: But I...
CLIENT: It reminds me though, that my parents used to yell at me when I smiled because they didn't like the way I smiled. When I was little when I smiled and smiled my whole face and my eyes would crinkle up.
THERAPIST: I would hope so.
CLIENT: And uh they would say it makes you look Chinese, you should smile softly so that your eyes stay round. And like they had me practice this especially like there was one year with school pictures, where you know I was like five or sixish, maybe kindergarten or first grade I can't remember, but the photo crew was making jokes and like doing puppet shows to get the kids to smile. To make like a real smile instead of a little smile.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And when my parents saw the photos they were furious because my eyes were all crinkled up.
THERAPIST: Horrible. (pause) We should stop for now, but we'll talk more next week.
END TRANSCRIPT
